ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Let's start with the control session. [[Rumors]] We begin this morning with the questions addressed to the Government in office, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President-in-Office of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, this trip didn't require any saddlebags. You've been wanting to go to elections from the beginning, but you've been playing with the Spaniards for the last five months. That is why he has not sought any agreement with any party in this House and has treated the opposition with his usual pride. He instrumentalized the institutions in a simple way, this Parliament with a half-year lock and used the royal decrees for electoral use, on public television, which he learned yesterday before the king that there was going to be elections and even the Moncloa, from where you gave your first election rally yesterday. At least he recognized something: that there is economic cooling, that the situation with the independenceists can get worse and that there are serious uncertainties. But what do you offer in the face of all this? The most fatuous incapacity, the most solemn inaction, nothing with whiskers. In economic terms, what it does is offer a massive rise in taxes, when it has the worst unemployment data in the last decade. In territorial matters, it seeks an alliance with Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Cat in institutions, rather than allying with the People's Party and banning pardons when the Supreme's sentence comes. And in Navarre he proposes to withdraw an appeal of unconstitutionality to an ignominious law of police abuse, instead of letting the constitutionalists rule. Mr Sánchez, who is neither able nor able to manage his investiture, can hardly manage a nation like Spain. With what authority does he demand that he be re-elected who has obtained nothing but support from the two hundred and twenty-seven Members he had to convince in this House? How can you say, after having rejected two investment agreements - on the right and on the left - that you want to regain the confidence of the Spaniards? You've been seen the plumer, Mr. Sanchez. You even had a trip to New York planned, when you were supposedly fighting for the second investiture session and, in the end, you claim to be invested by electoral exhaustion, which is a serious irresponsibility. Of the thousands of governments that have formed since April, the only one that has failed has been you because you have betrayed everyone and proved that it is not reliable. With the PP he agreed to article 155 and then filed a motion of censure. With Citizens he signed an investiture in 2016 and now he doesn't even sit with them. With Podemos he arranged some budgets and now he's trying to humiliate them. You pretend to be proclaimed sudden president, like the saints, but remember that the elections are carried by the devil. So he's got what he wanted. And the People's Party will be up to it, to regain the path of political unlocking and economic recovery, also to guarantee national unity and, above all, to regain the direction of a nation that is great for you. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u3	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Spaniards, after seven years of administration of the People's Party, with cuts and social injustice, seeing leaders of the People's Party stroll through the Supreme Court trying to respond to the cases of corruption they had in their party, seeing the lack of exemplaryity that existed during the seven years of government of the People's Party, social injustice, corruption and also the rift in the way of doing politics, on 28 April voted clearly and high a progressive government that did not depend on the independence forces On 26 May they did the same again, Mr. Casado... [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Mrs.Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos: But where is it?-Applause]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u6	On 26 May they did the same thing again. What has happened here, Mr Casado, is that you have not assumed your responsibility or the election result of 28 April. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Yeah. What has happened here, Mr. Married, is that there has been a first political force that has won the elections and has tried to form government, and three political forces, you, you and you... [[rumors]] [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u7	Ladies and gentlemen... I'm sorry, President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u8	... What they have done has been to block the formation of the only possible government in this country, Mr Casado. [[Rumors]] It's that simple. Mr Casado, Spain needs stability, moderation and a progressive government. [[Rumors]] That's what Spain needs, Mr. Casado. You don't need the lock. You, instead of taking responsibility as a party that has also shared the government with the Socialist Party over the past 40 years, instead of taking responsibility with a sense of state, of facilitating the only possible government in this country at a critical time for the sentencing of the process over the coming months, with a cooling of the economy and with the management of the Brexit that we have to do, what you have decided is, as a result of your lack of state sense, for Mr Rivera's irresponsibility and for the dogmatism of Mr. Churches... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u10	...you, Mr. Married, what you've done...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u11	I'm sorry, President of the Government in office. Please, let us hold a monitoring session in which we can hear the speaker, and at the moment the President of the Government has the floor. The use of Mr Casado Blanco's word has been respected. Please also respect the word of the President-in-Office of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u12	This is the problem, Mr Casado: that you, when in opposition, do not recognize the legitimacy of the Socialist Party to govern this country. [[Rumors]] I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Married. On 10 November, since we are going to be forced to go to elections again, I hope that the Spanish will give a more robust majority, if any, to the Socialist Party so that you, Mr Rivera, and you, Mr Iglesias, do not have the capacity to block the formation of a government again, which is what Spain needs. [[rumors]] [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group]] [[Rumours.-Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON FUNCTIONS: WHAT IS THE PROPOSED POLICY FOR CATALUNE? [[File number 180/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u14	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u15	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Sánchez, what is your project for Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u16	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. My project for Catalonia is the same project that I have for Extremadura, for Andalusia, for Castilla-La Mancha, for Castilla and León, for Euskadi, for Galicia, for the Valencian Community, for the Balearic Islands, for the Canary Islands, in short, for each and every territory of our country. I also have one thing to say to you, Mr Rufián: it is the same political project that I have for the whole country and it is based on three fundamental issues. The first, the recovery of social justice - this is a country that suffers a lot of social inequality - to guarantee equal opportunities and rights in every corner of our country; the second, to fight corruption and also to promote exemplary public activity after seven years in which we have seen how corruption has denied political life in our country and, third, to abandon the crisis and to bet on coexistence and harmony within the Constitution and legality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u19	I thank you for the honesty, Mr President, because basically your project is to see who has the biggest flag with respect to PP and Citizens. Mr. Sánchez, how do you think people went to bed last night?, satisfied?, delighted to go to vote on November 10, knowing perfectly what happened here, distinguishing between one another: offering ministries, vetoes, manipulated papers? How do you think people went to bed last night? I'm not a polytologist, but I think people are up to the goodies of us, of all of us; they're up to their noses. You have shown that you are to negotiation what VOX to feminism. Here's your irresponsibility. Mr. Sanchez, the last 24 hours you've been trying to make a deal with the guy who calls us a band, you've been trying to make a deal with the right that you promised to stop. And you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, have had them for months, for weeks, where you wanted to: on TV sets complaining; rightly, but you have had them where you wanted. We're not going to get where they wanted, I'm telling you clearly. During the campaign we asked a question: What PSOE will we meet? Which Mr. Sanchez will we meet? We know that, 155. And I say it with regret, I feel sorry for it. The stronger you are, the closer you get to the right. They've lost a historic opportunity. You said yesterday, Mr. Sánchez, that you had tried by all means. It's literal. If he speaks the truth, he is an incompetent; if he lies, he is a negligent, an irresponsible. The only stumbling block for you to come to the right in November, like it more or like it less, is this parliamentary group, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. We'll come back, and we'll get stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u21	I, in the debate on investiture, Mr Rufián, thanked him publicly - and also here in Congress, I did - that Republican Left facilitated with abstention the formation of a government of Spain, because it seems to me that, in fact, it contrasted a vision at least of governability, in this case of Spain, very different from that of the People's Party and that of Citizens. So, I say it again, thank you. But we don't have much more in common with you and me, Mr Rufián, Republican Left with the Socialist Party; not much more. You defend independence in Catalonia, we defend coexistence in Catalonia. It has always been very striking to me that a party that says it is on the left, such as the Republican Left, defends the independence of a rich territory, among other issues, because it says that it pays a lot to the poorest territories of Spain. [[Applauds]] Those are the differences that exist between you and us. I will also tell you one thing, Mr. Rufián, we are going to defend the Constitution. And yesterday what I said to Mr Rivera is that if there is a constitutionalist party in this country and in this political system it is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] We will always defend, Mr Rufián, dialogue, negotiation, agreement and coexistence; that is what we defend in Catalonia and throughout the country. But there is no mistake, Mr Rufián, if the Generalitat of Catalonia makes any attempt to violate once again the status of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Government will apply any article of the Constitution to defend the Constitution, the status of autonomy, legality, national sovereignty and territorial integrity. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEEN Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT IS IT FOR YOU A PROGRESSIST GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u23	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government in office and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality in office. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, President. Mrs. Calvo, we've come to the end. Progressive comedy is over. Tell me honestly, doesn't it give you, personally, shame?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Madam Vice-President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I haven't been to any comedy. Does the question rephrase me? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: I figured I wouldn't answer it, but not that I didn't understand it. [[Laughter]] Last night I heard him say: it's a frustrating day, we weren't thinking about elections. What impudent victimism! They haven't thought about anything else since April 28 and, worse, they haven't done anything else. You, personally; you have been the executor of this socialist theater, this sanchista simulacro. You are the embodiment of this farce that all Spaniards have had to pay. They told us they wanted to build a progressive government. Let's see. Is it progressive or constitutionalist, Mr Sánchez, to come to the government with the vote of a fugitive from justice and a prisoner for beating? Is it progressive to govern in the Barcelona Diputation with the Spanish Le Pen? Is it progressive to rule in Navarre through a party that justifies political murder? Is it progressive to defend an initiative that equates the victims with the executioners? No, Mrs. Calvo, you are deeply reactionary. But the farce does not end there, neither progressive nor government. I've reviewed your official agenda since April 28. What have you personally done these five months? He has had ten meetings, ten in five months; what an effort!, what a sacrifice!, what an enormous exhaustion! You'll tell me you're tired of so much negotiation, won't you? It turns out that in the end, progressiveism was going to be that, the most cynical and cynical struggle to liquidate its progressive partner with the money of all Spaniards. I will be forgiven by Mr. Iglesias - who is not here today - that by his luck or that of his party I do not worry, but even when you win the left you are not able to rule. What worries me is what they have done with the Spaniards, they have used and continue to use their money - which does own public money - to finance the election campaign. What do we call that? Progressive funding? The last example already grotesque we had yesterday, which was to see Spanish Television summoning political leaders to an electoral debate when the king and Mr. Sánchez had not even pronounced their majesty by turning the television of the night into their first big campaign rally; well, I don't know if the first one because it carries many. That's why I ask you again - to see if you understand now - if you don't embarrass yourself. But, of course, how I was going to give it to her! I will only make a final prediction: you are going to get a lot worse than your 'rounds' whisper. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Madam Vice-President of the Government in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, listening to you talk is like when it rains, you have to open the umbrella. [[Rumors]] I will tell you what is not a progressive government, and I ask you, from its unattainable height, to look down on the mere socialist mortals, whom for forty years, contributing to the end of the dictatorship and the transition, we have striven in each and every one of the institutions where we have ruled to maintain the Constitution of this country and the policies that make social peace in this country through equality. [[rumors]] I will tell you what is not a progressive government, from which you come. A progressive government is not the one that has to fall for corruption in a sentence by motion of censure. [[Applauds]] A progressive government is not a factory of detachment and independence against the territorial unity of Spain. You have run out of support in the Basque Country and Catalonia. You are not in a position to guarantee the unity of this country, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That farce is over. You're the only representative in Catalonia. Nor is it a progressive government that puts on the working and middle classes, with tax increases, the brutal crisis that we have been through by cutting rights and benefits. [[protests]] Nor is it a progressive government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u30	And do you know what a progressive government is, the one to which we socialists, small mortals from its height, have been constantly contributing for forty years in this country? The one who broadens equality with solidarity, the one who fights every day because the project of life to which one reaches without choosing and without knowing is not a calvary, working constantly for the purposes of equality. There's something I really liked about what you said. They've been practicing together, haven't they? VOX, Citizens and you, reaching in loser pacts many institutions in the last elections. I have finally seen that you agree in theory; yes, the progressive dictatorship, the very dictatorship of Mr.Abascal; at last you are at the site... [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u31	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY IN FUNCTIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS HAVE DONE ALL THAT IS POSSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/00020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u32	Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u33	Thank you, President. Mrs Calvo, do you consider that the Government in office has done everything possible to give stability to our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. Madam Vice-President of the Government in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, if you ask about the government's work, fortunately, our country has not experienced any instability in the past four and a half months, except for the ignominy and tragedy of dealing with the macho violence, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, and the climate situation that we have experienced in recent days with deaths in the middle. Otherwise, fortunately, in office we have addressed everyday life. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u37	Thank you. Mrs Calvo, I don't know if you understand that there are a lot of people in our country who are between stupefying and very angry to see how you have wasted almost five months of time without negotiating anything with anyone at all; five months in which you have only got support and five months in which you have not stopped asking for the abstention to the right, just yesterday by letter to your esteemed Rivera; five months in which you have made proposals that in July were worth and now are no longer worth, proposals that expire every two days as if they were a yogurt. Mrs Calvo, I think a lot of people in our country may end up thinking that you are actually exactly where you wanted to be, on the way to an electoral repetition in which your communicative gurus tell you that you are going to scratch a few more seats or that you are going to be able to soften Mr Rivera once and for all so that he can fulfill his role and deal definitively with you. We have basically been asked to give our votes to them, to give them a government alone, forgetting, Madam Vice-President, that we have already done so. União Podemos has already given you a government alone and made you the numbers for a motion of censure in which we work more than you and yet that model, Mrs Calvo, failed. [[Applauds]] It is a model that failed because you had to call early elections in just eight months and were not able to carry out even the General Budgets of the State. So, I ask you, why bet on a failed model? Why not try a coalition government, which is the norm in Europe, which is the norm in the autonomous communities, which is what would really give stability to this country? Why don't you want to rule with the United We can when the United We can not stop giving in since the elections and we have done things that you would never accept as, for example, vetoing our candidate? It seems to me that, in fact, you do not want to govern with us because you know that if we are in the government you will not be able to do what you always do, that it is basically not to comply with your word as you did with the list of tax amnesty, with the repeal of the labor reform, with the tax on the bank or this very week with the Duchy of Primo de Rivera or perhaps it is rather that, as in 2016, you have again received pressure and the Bank of Santander, the CEO or the Business Circle do not feel right that United We can be in the government. [[Applauds]] Make it clear to us because I believe there are a lot of people out there who would like to know. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. Madam Vice-President of the Government in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Do you see, Mrs Belarus, how you and I understand the Constitution and the institutions in a very different way? You asked the government and you wanted to ask the Socialist Party or the parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] Do you realize that? Do you realize that? The Government is in the work of the Executive. Do you realize that we understand the institutions very differently? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u40	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u41	Yeah. You wanted to ask about something else but I'm going to answer you almost in a becquerian way. Do you ask me, with the hours that we have been gathered and the times that you have not understood and described as stupidity, nonsense, florist to capitalistic policies for any progressive government like the one we represent? Do you ask me that? But I'll add something else. You have had a problem all the time: either your leader was inside the government or the deck broke. [[Applauds]] And it hasn't been in forty-eight hours or a minute; no, it was just a second for your leader to say no to a coalition government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u43	But, look, today you alone portray yourself. You have qualified Mr. Rivera as dear Mr. Rivera for us. [[Rumors]] This sounds like something else that it is not appropriate to say at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. Mr Rivera, a dear partner who has called us a band, who has refused throughout July to sit down and talk to the President-in-Office just so that they would not obstruct the governance of this country without alternative. Mrs Belarus, you have to review it again, but the coalition government rejected it, you alone, in particular your leader. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u44	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY IN FUNCTIONS: HOW DO YOU THINK TO ADOPTE A NEW PERIOD OF INTERIENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE AT THE TIME OF COMPLETING THE COMMITMENTS ACQUIRED WITH REGARD TO THE VASCA AND NAVARRA AUTOMATION COMMUNITIES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000022]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u45	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u46	Madam Vice-President, we will continue in interim, hopefully, until next February or March. How does the Government intend to fulfil its commitments to the Basque Autonomous Community and the Navarra Forum Community?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u47	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Madam Vice-President of the Government in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, in the last parliamentary term the commitments that were made between the President of the Government before he was in office and the Lehendakari in a reasonable way have been fulfilled, as we have done in other commitments, and you also know the specific elements that I could detail to you. In the area of infrastructure, I refer to AP-1 and AP-68; in the area of conflict between the Government of the Nation and the Basque Government in some form of unconstitutionality, and we have also made progress on some issues relating to the implementation of important projects. You know very well - because you know very well the functioning of the Public Administration and the General Administration of the State - that while we are in office we have important limitations, but you also know that we are responsible, quite reasonable with the commitments we make; in function there are some issues with many limitations. There have been very important technical meetings, there are lines that we are not going to cross and that you know about social security, and some issues have technical and even budgetary complications, but we are predictable people and reasonable people. You yourself recognized that in a short time we had progressed more than in years, and we will do so as soon as the situation provides us with reasons and in ordinary form. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u49	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u50	Madam Vice-President, the fact is that they have slowed down decision-making since they called the last elections and it is not a receipt for ordinary business. The country has to keep working, we have to make decisions, we have to choose between alternatives, and all that has to be answered. The commitments I am referring to belong to that, to the aspect of the ordinary offices. For example, on the high-speed train they are already failing to meet the schedule to which they had committed. The informational studies of Bilbao and Vitoria must be speeded up. The Basque Government has already complied with the management order it had and has completed the work on the Gipuzcoan section. If you want, we can collaborate and we offer to do the entrance works to Vitoria and Bilbao to speed up all the works, but it is necessary for you to make decisions. I am also concerned about the entire transfer schedule. Complying with the law is an ordinary matter and, therefore, we could continue to work on it and that such transfer agreements should take place. However, those meetings are paralysed. I am concerned about some agreements with regard to Ertzaintza and Europol that are not being implemented. And in Navarre the connection of the TAV remains undefined. Traffic competition is a compromise by the President, but it is still not; I hope it will be done. The new convention needs to be updated. The Navarra canal, the Álava waterings, which are on the budget, why aren't they made? Nothing has been done at all. The terrains of Lemoniz; they have to culminate already, this year, can not be expected. The Jundiz agreement for the platform; all that could be done, are ordinary offices. It's time to do it now. Frankly, I do not know whether or not you are going to be in the next government - we will see what is going on -, what I can assure you is that here will be the PNV again to remember the Basque agenda and the commitments that must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u51	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Madam Vice-President of the Government in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I would like to thank you for your attitude and also for your support for the stability that should have existed for a government that would no longer have to be in office, and I want to say this publicly. It is not easy; that is why the President-in-Office said a moment ago that the blockade in which we are and which you are bringing here today is not understandable for the issues that fall within the competence of the Basque Country. There are some issues that we can speed up even in office - you know that because the technical committees are meeting - and in those we will be up to date. And from the prognosis you've made, don't worry, Mr. Esteban, we'll be these or others, Mr. Sánchez will be and we'll answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u53	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE IN FUNCTIONS: IS YOUR GOVERNMENT COMMITTED NOT TO PROMOTE THE GROUND OF INDULTS, TOTAL OR PARTIAL, TO ALL OR SOME OF THE SECESSIONIST LEGISLATIVES, IF THESE ARE FINALLY CONDENED BY THE SUPREME TRIBUNAL? [[File number 180/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u54	Questions to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u55	Mrs Delgado, I have a question for you that will surprise you: Will you pardon the government to those people who may be convicted as a result of the trial sentence? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Tell me yes or no. If you don't tell me I won't understand it's a yes. I'll also understand that it's a yes if you answer me the same way you've been answering me... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u57	That everyone has the right to pardon, that the sentence is not yet final or that we are disrupting the division of powers and the exercise of jurisdictional power. I would be ashamed to hide this government's will from the Spaniards. Tell me you're not going to pardon them.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bal, it is indisputable, absolutely indisputable, the support for the Constitution and the legal order of this Government and, moreover, we are obliged to respect the principle of judicial independence and not to interfere in any way in the course of pronouncements so that they are anticipated in one way or another in one way or another. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u61	I am very pleased to hear that this Government is committed to the Constitution. On the other hand, imagine if you had told me otherwise; if we thought otherwise the fear that would give us all. But there has been a cry in this House as a result of the reform of the Pardon Act, and virtually all political groups are convinced that pardon should be exempted in many cases where there is a social sensitivity precisely for the full enforcement of sentences. Are you telling me that there is no such social sensitivity of most Spaniards for the full enforcement of sentences in this case? Are you telling me, on the other hand, that since the sentence is not firm you cannot pronounce? I ask you for the political will of this Government. I ask whether this Government considers it of public use to sell or exchange pardons for investment. You are still in your thirteen because we are going to a new election campaign and still want the Republican Left of Catalonia to abstain. The division of powers is trying to keep us with this question and with these initiatives. We want the judges to feel safe with their work, to feel that this work will remain, that the Government will not interfere with their work. Don't ever criticize the provisional arrest warrants again. Tell your leaders you don't have to be brave to ask for pardon. Mrs. Delgado, I'm gonna ask you one and a thousand times until you answer me no. Are you going to pardon those people who are most likely to be convicted of the trial sentence? Tell me, tell the Spaniards. We'll all sleep quieter. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u62	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bal, you insist on the path of lying because of course you give things that have not yet happened. They tried unsuccessfully before the elections on 28 April and they continue to try to send a message that the only thing that makes it impossible to respect the courts is because it is clear, Mr Bal, that neither your opinion nor mine will disturb the judges who are so brilliantly conducting this procedure. Both you and Mr Ortega, from VOX - who also go together in this - create a climate of opinion that is not good for the calm of a deliberation. You have followed a path that is that of cynicism, Mr. Bal. I will tell you something: you have presented yourself as an exemplary official, but you were removed from your role because of a flagrant breach of the principle of loyalty, of the principle of secrecy and confidentiality. You have violated the regulations of the State Legal Service, you have violated the General Statute of the Bar, you have violated the basic statute of the Civil Service and, in addition, Instruction 3/2006, which you know very well, Mr Bal. Far from being an exemplary official, he was exclusively concerned about his interest in the general interest. [[Rumors]] Look, you have not been a lawyer of the loyal State, you have decided to ignore the principle of doctrine and hierarchical dependence, the irrevocability of your role and respect for the competence to set strategic objectives and administrative objectives that correspond, as you well know, to other bodies. [[Rumors]] You have decided to put your interests ahead of the general interest. And look, Mr Bal, the duty of secrecy and professional discretion remains after having ceased to perform the performance of the performance and without limitation in time. [[Rumors]] You've agreed with Mr. Ortega, from VOX, and he's still in the same line, and everything... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u64	Thank you, Minister of Justice. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF MAJOR MAJOR RAFAEL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY COMMON PODEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT ARE THE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE MINISTER WHEN THE COMMITTEE GETS A NOTIFICATION OF CATELAR MEASURES DESC OF THE UNITED NATIONS REQUIRING PARALIZATION OF A UNEMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u65	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-en Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u66	Minister, what are the measures your ministry takes when it receives a notification of interim measures from the UN DEC Committee requiring the cessation of an eviction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mayoral, when the Government receives a communication from the committee, what it does is transfer to the judicial body that is aware of the process, as you well know, and it is up to the judiciary to assess the scope and effects of both the communication and the interim measures to be taken. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u70	Madam Minister, the truth is that you do not fail to surprise the written answers you give in this regard. You know that a fundamental principle of international law is that the covenants that are signed must be complied with, and that means that your ministry's written responses are incomprehensible by saying that the resolutions of the UN DEC Committee and its precautionary measures are not binding. I do want to tell you what measures your Government is taking when the cessation of evictions is required by resolution of the UN DEC Committee: police deployments of dozens of anti-riots that isolate the family all night by restricting their right of assembly, including with the public representatives of this House in response to a request for amparo to the Congress of Deputies, to which you have not been able to respond. Those are the answers. In judicial proceedings, during such proceedings required for their stay, the exercise of the defence is not permitted and legal representation in the participation of judicial proceedings is excluded. We are faced with a real misconception because you have a responsibility to defend the interests of the State, and the interests of the State are compliance with international treaties. That is also what the State's Advocate is for, in order to be involved in the proceedings and to require the cessation of those actions which will be the responsibility of our country in relation to our human rights covenants. It is absolutely incomprehensible that you continue to look elsewhere without understanding that the justiciability of social rights is opening up. You are a better lawyer than I am, and you know very well that our country is systematically violating human rights in this area because of a lack of political courage to deal with what is necessary, and the necessary thing is for the institutions, once and for all, to stand side by side with those who are suffering the beatings of vultures and speculators who are putting them on the street while there are requirements of the United Nations, and the Government, far from protecting vulnerable people, does what it does is to use the strength of the State, also endangering our international prestige. I ask you, please, to return to legality and to fulfil our international commitments. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mayor, I think the first thing to do is not confuse the citizenry, not confuse the Spaniards. The Committee recommends, in fact, that there should be no eviction without a housing alternative for the discharged person, but these recommendations cannot be taken as precautionary measures. You know it as well as I do, and you don't have to be a lawyer for that; they're not binding. In any case, what the Government is doing, which I am telling you, is to transfer through the Ministry of Development the existence of such communication from the committee and a possible response of interim measures to the local entity or to the autonomous entity in whose territory the process is taking place, so that appropriate measures are taken. It is these administrations and not the State that has to take action in this regard. It is in our hands, Mr Mayor, to continue working to find solutions to this which we are also concerned about. In this sense, the State Advocate has been involved in those procedures in which it has been possible, we do not always have that procedural legitimation, but we have already done so, for example, when you fell the royal decree of housing rental, which then came forward, several weeks later, by contemplating the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act, Mr Mayoral, giving entry into the procedure to the social services to study the existence of situations of special vulnerability and suspend the procedures when it was determined that we were in one of those cases. [[Major Perales: But what does that have to do with anything?]] This is it, don't look at me like that. And then we did it by meeting with all the groups involved in housing. There is a common progressive proposal made by the President of the Government in office, which agreed on measures that are far-reaching: the adoption of the State housing law, the regulation of housing as an essential public service, the creation of a public housing rental park, and the promotion of more public housing. All this is what was in the common progressive proposal of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u73	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONATION ALBERTO GARZÓN ESPINOSA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMONLY POWDER-GALICIA IN COMMON, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF OPERATIONS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT JUSTIFY THAT THE EFFECTIVE TYPE OF THE TAX OF COMPANIES PAYING THE SIX MAIN BANKS ARE JUSTICED FROM 1,15 % TO 15 % OF THE IRPF PAYING CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u74	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, how does the government in office justify that the effective rate paid by the six main banks in this country in corporate tax is 1% compared to the clear contrast with the effective rate paid by the working class of 15% in the IRPF?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u76	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Garzón, because of the various meetings that we have been able to hold, you know perfectly well that this government is pursuing social justice and, therefore, the progressive payment of taxes, reducing that gap between the nominal rate and the actual rate of large companies, the differential, because I would like to remind you that the financial sector, despite having a 30% nominal rate, according to the latest statistics is paying around 2.8%, which obliges us to reach agreements similar to those reached for the budget, where the taxable or minimum tax base was 15%. All this taking into account above all that, despite being the fourth economic power of the euro area, we are the fourth country by the tail in collection; that we separate 7 points in relation to GDP income from other countries, or that we have a public expenditure that is 6 points below the euro area average. I therefore believe that it is important, essential, to continue to abound in this fiscal justice, to bring to fruition the agreements that we have reached in the budgetary agreement - if I may say redundancy - and to continue to deepen in each of the sectors so that they contribute with justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u78	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u79	Minister, I think the diagnosis is correct, so there we agree. The six main banks in just six months have obtained €3.5 billion in profit and have paid €40 million; we are talking about 1%. Large companies pay 7% of the actual rate and small and medium-sized enterprises over 18%; the working class, as I said before, 15%. This asymmetry has long been known and is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, which in its article 31 states that there must be a progressive tax system and not only refers to subsystems, not only to the IRPF, but to the entire tax system. As I was saying, this has been known for a long time. Fortunately, since we launched the motion of censure, we started talking and we got budgets - which did not come out - that were trying to correct this. They were trying to correct it because, as I said, it was known for a long time and it affects public finances and the maintenance of public services. However, Minister, we are a little confused because yesterday Citizens changed their tactics and suggested to the Socialist Party that it would abstain if it met three conditions. One of them was to lower taxes, and the Socialist Party candidate responded by saying that that element was being met. Minister, you know that Citizens, Mr Rivera, said that the agreement between you and us was negative and terrifying for society, as well as that the middle class was the one that charged more than 300 000 euros a year, more than 10 000 euros a month. I do not understand how the Socialist Party candidate can agree with what you have said and at the same time agree with Citizens. This game of hands confuses the whole world and ultimately escapes the real problem and it is that, despite all the years that have passed, of all the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, our fiscal system remains largely regressive and benefits the rich. This government of the Socialist Party, now in office, has been in office for more than a year and has not complied with what you have diagnosed well, with what we are trying to approve with you. This is a fact noted and another fact found is that the right turns of the Socialist Party and the winks to Citizens indicate that this is going to follow for much longer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u80	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Garzón, I understand you must at least use the inaccuracy to justify that your parliamentary group rejected a coalition government in July. [[Applauds]] You and we agree that taxation should not be raised to the middle and working classes, and that is exactly what the President of the Government said yesterday. Exactly - read the statements - he said that at no time was the Socialist Party going to take any initiative that would raise taxes to the middle class and the working class and in that, unless you have changed your mind, I think we agreed when we drafted the proposal for a fiscal agreement for the budgets. Moreover, Mr. Garzón, as much as you are committed to moving that sort of equidistance in the PSOE now with regard to the ability to create pacts on the right or left, you know perfectly well, because we have transmitted it, that for us always in this negotiation our preferred partner has been United We Can, despite the laughter of your bench that I don't understand because there are the meetings and there they are... [[laughs]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u82	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE HOUSE OF CLAVELL'S HOUSE LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN FUNCTIONS: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR VALUE THE GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT IN IMMIGRATION MATTERS? [[File number 180/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u83	Questions to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mr Óscar Clavell López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. How do you rate the Government's migration policy?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u85	Thank you, Mr. Clavell. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you very much for asking me again this question which you have already reproduced orally on ten occasions, two inquiries and more than 330 written questions. She asks me how I value migration policy, which has returned for the little more than a year that we have been in the Government. While in the last three years of your government irregular immigration has grown by 301%, this year we have already reduced it by 50%. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Clavell.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u88	Do you consider, Mr Marlaska, that the government's immigration policy is the right one when the President-in-Office had to interrupt his vacation in Doñana because of the pressure exerted by the leader of the People's Party, who not only visited before him the fires that plagued the Canary Islands, but also with the open crisis with the Open Arms, as happened with last year's Gandía fires, or with the last and terrible floods in many provinces of southeastern Spain? Do I have to remind you, Minister, of your announcement more than a year ago to withdraw the concerts, which you are now presenting or promising for 2020? Do I have to bring to your memory hot returns, the situation of MENA or guaranteed health for all? Look, Minister, a subject as sensitive as this cannot be addressed by tweeting from the summer residence. Did you talk to the Andalusian Junta or the Town Hall of Algeciras before the failed landing? Or even with the Balearic Government or the City Councils of Palma or Mahón after their second offer? What do you have to tell me about the Audacious? Today we do not know the approximate cost of that mission of sixty members of the Spanish Navy to displace fifteen people, discrediting the Air Force by accusing them of lack of security when this problem had been solved with the Falcon. Do I have to refresh your memory, Minister, with the episode of the Chilean fishing company Our Lady of Loreto, with eleven sub-Saharans, when the government refused to dock in Santa Pola, from where it is said fishing, because it considered Libya to be a safe port? Do you want us to talk about the Aquarius media show, where there was a journalist for every immigrant - by the way, today, you don't know what to do with those immigrants - and your potential partners accused them of political marketing? Mr. Borrell himself said that the Aquarius was a personal and direct decision of Pedro Sánchez. If so, why does the President-in-Office not come to face this House? The NGOs themselves have accused him of institutional racism... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u89	Thank you, Mr. Clavell. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Listening to him today, I realize how they have not understood anything, how they confuse everything, how their politics is a whirlwind. [[Rumors]] I understand why there was no migration policy, we had to face that disaster to which you had contributed for lack of migration policy. We apply criteria of security and humanity, something you do not know. We re-created the Delegated Committee of the Council of Ministers on Migration, we re-created the Coordination Authority, we re-controlled migratory flows, we controlled borders. We have again created migration policy in the European Union, we have again concluded agreements with countries of origin and transit, we are carrying out genuine migration policy. This afternoon I will travel to Italy to meet tomorrow with the new Minister of the Interior of the Italian Republic, and I look forward to a will and intention to proceed with the common migration policy of the European Union in other words, in the terms advocated by this Government; with certainty, with humanity, with cooperation and collaboration. You tell me about Ceuta. He seems to be unaware of the procedures involved in any public procurement, especially when it comes to security. All that is on the way, we will have a much safer border, much more humane; security and humanity. The word humanity for you is difficult to conjugate, but it draws attention to the fact that you have not even conjugated the word security. We combine security and humanity. We are working for a common migration policy in the European Union and cooperation, and all this means that we have fallen by 50%. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u91	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA BELTRÁN VILLALBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR ON FUNCTIONS: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT OFFENSES AND HUMMILLATIONS ARE COMMITTED IN NAVARRA TO THE SECURITY BODIES AND FORCES OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u92	Question by Mrs Ana María Beltrán Villalba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Government in office consider that in Navarre humiliations and offenses are being committed against the National Police and the Civil Guard?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u94	Thank you, Mrs Beltrán. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Beltrán, Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. As we all know or at least know this Minister of the Interior in office and this Government, the State Security Forces and Corpses perform or perform an essential and special role in a rule of law, and they do so throughout Spain to ensure a situation where we can all develop our rights, our freedoms, with peace and security. The consequence of all this is that any disregard for the dignity of the State Security Forces and Bodies has found, finds and will find the answer in the right State and in this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u97	Mr. Great-Marlaska, what you're saying is absolutely false. The humiliations, offenses and aggressions that the Civil Guard and the National Police are receiving in Navarre are extremely serious and you are contributing to it. They look the other way when the Ospa Eguna is celebrated in Navarre, which is the day of 'Get out of here', and the 'Tiro al facha', which aim to intimidate and pressure the Civil Guard to leave Navarre. You know it perfectly well. It is a historical pretension of the terrorist band ETA and of all Basque nationalism. Today we have seen how Mr Esteban has asked for this, and we have heard nothing say to you, nothing, to sympathize with them, absolutely nothing. And you know why? Because you are chained to Bildu, because Mr. Sánchez has sold us to ETA's heirs and those are the tolls you have to pay to be able to rule in Navarre. There are no tolls of the infamy that you have to pay. Moreover, the Socialist Party had an absolutely miserable abstention in the evil so-called Police Violence Act, a law that equates victims with executioners and, above all, that humiliates the National Police and the Civil Guard, when they have been the ones who have left their lives to defend us all from ETA terrorism. [[Applauds]] How could you look at the face of the National Police and the Civil Guard the other day when you visited them in Pamplona? How could he look them in the face? This law that I have just quoted is the law of Bildu par excellence, precisely to defend yours, and the Socialist Party, you have voted with them to criticize the Constitutional Court for admitting to procedure the appeal lodged by the People's Party against that law. This is another proof that you are absolutely kneeling before Bildu. Moreover, Mr Sánchez has betrayed Navarra and the Navarros and, consequently, all the Spaniards. He has sold us for a plate of lentils, knowing the crossroads in which Navarra is at with the annexationist interests of Basque nationalism. We just saw it right now with Mr Esteban's question. The shipwrecks clearly said the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u98	Thank you, Mrs Beltrán. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Beltrán. It would be no more than you, who so much want the State Security Forces and Bodies, when you are in government - let's hope it takes you a long time - to worry a little bit more about them because when you are in government, investment, which for you is a security expenditure, decreases substantially. Take care of them a little longer; during their seven years of government we lost 12,000 people - that is not caring - they lost purchasing power and their infrastructures were absolutely aged. During this year and a half we have achieved a public job offer of 5000 places. In all areas of Spain there is already beginning to be more police and civilian guards. We are equipping them with material means to carry out their work and to carry out their role, which is so essential in a rule of law, with certainty. We have approved an infrastructure plan of more than 800 million. And we have made effective the salary increase that you had designed, but defectively. But let me tell you how I looked at the State Security Forces, the Civil Guard and the Police the other day in Navarre. I've worked with them a lot and I've done it on the street, not like you. We know each other a lot and we know what we're doing, we know we're being honest with each other. You know what they told me? That since 2011 the Security Board has been awaiting approval of a coordination plan with the outlaw police, and you, being in the government here and there, have not made progress in that plan. It will be a Socialist Government in Navarre and a Socialist Government in Madrid that will make the Police, the Civil Guard and the Outlaw Police work together. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u100	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL MINISTER IN FUNCTIONS: HOW WILL IT AFFECT TO THE MINISTER THAT AN INSTRUCTION JUDGMENT JUDGMENT HAS OPENED PROVIDED TO DETERMINE IF PREVARICATION AND DOCUMENTAL FALSE HAVE BEEN PRELIMINATED IN A DOCUMENT FROM THE MINISTER IN RELATION TO THE ARRANGEMENTS SUFFERED BY THE POLITICAL REPRESENTATIVES OF CITIZENS DURING THE LAST MANIFESTATION OF THE ORGULUM IN MADRID? [[File number 180/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u101	Question by Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u102	Mr. Great-Marlaska, we're going back to when you were a judge and I'm going to ask you a question. Would you admit to a trial a test or a report that did not have the official logos or that did not know who signed it?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honour, taking into account the content of your words, which today more or less ratify in those terms, I will tell you to let the courts work, let the courts perform their function. You usually come with the sentence. Leave the courts and let's see what final decision they can make. What worries me substantially is that a political representative like you questions the professionalism and impartiality of the State Security Forces and Bodies in the exercise of their functions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u106	Mr. Marlaska, we don't doubt the police, we doubt you, you don't even defend her. You just said otherwise you wouldn't accept that kind of evidence. And why do you create such reports then, Mr. Marlaska? Let's talk about that report. In that report there are subjective assessments, such as those that say there have been no insults, which were political slogans. For you a fascist is a political slogan? I guess so. For you to call us sons of bitches is a political slogan? Because if for you it is a political slogan now I understand your attitude when Mrs Delgado's statements came out insulting him, because they were political slogans and that's why they didn't feel bad at all. According to you, what happened was all lies; according to you, the reason - your reason - is only that suspicious report that we called the Marlaska report, because what we all saw I guess it was lies. What I lived was a lie, Mr. Marlaska? Was what the journalists were living at the time a lie, Mr. Marlaska? What everyone saw on camera was a lie, Mr Marlaska, or is it that since we're not in the Socialist Party, nothing happens and you don't care whether we like it or not? You are a disgrace to the country, because not only do you not condemn, but you encourage the violent. I don't have his responsibilities as a minister, but I think he's totally unworthy. Not only does he not represent the State Security Forces and Bodies, but he meets Bildu in hiding, because since we are not socialists he does not want to defend us. Think about whether everything is worth getting the Socialist Party membership card, because there are merits that become dishonorable. As I was saying, I have no responsibilities, but I would never justify throwing a piss at you, throwing things at you, insulting you, hounding you; I would never justify it. Imagine that instead of the manifestation of the Day of Pride it would have been another manifestation. Would you mind? Would you do the same? Or was it that what bothered him was that Citizens were, as always, defending each other's right to sexual freedom and to love anyone who wants to? [[Rumors]] I would never justify...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u107	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u108	...to be assaulted. I'm still waiting for an apology, we're all still waiting for it; let it rectify, too. I am also still waiting for him to go home already unworthy, and although the Socialist Party rewards him for encouraging and justifying the violent, I am sure that the citizens of this country will never do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u109	Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you very much. In the end, he has already said what that report was referring to and we have all been able to find out; I already knew that he was referring to the manifestation of the Pride. I will simply tell you that when a fact like a mass demonstration or public event happens, security measures are taken. When security measures are adopted, as they were adopted at that time and by that event, studies, assessments and reports are subsequently carried out, some signed and others not signed. That's the context. When the judicial authority asks for the documents, the reports drawn up - and that is normal - to assess how it has acted or stopped acting, all reports will be forwarded. At least don't lie and don't say - those issues are yours - that I've met Bildu I don't know when or how - he has said it. Show me that picture, please. The Marlaska report... What are you calling me? Prevaricator? All that I accept from you and your group, but you have finally fallen, Your Honor, fallen. He said: If it were not for the Pride, how would you have acted as Minister of the Interior? Do you know what you've done there? Do you know what we call minimalism? Well, you've done a minihomophobia, a homophobic speech. [[Applauds]] You've taken my sexual orientation into account to attack my performance as Minister of the Interior. [[Mrs Rodríguez Hernández asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u111	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez, you know that control sessions take place uninterruptedly. So now I'm not going to give you the floor. [[Mrs Rodríguez Hernández utters words that are not perceived.-Protests]] Mr JAVIER ORTEGA SMITH-MOLINA, Mr VOX, of the Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior the role of: how much does a celebration of general elections concern the Spaniards? [[File number 180/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u112	Question by Mr Francisco Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u113	Good morning, Minister. How much will it cost the Spaniards to hold a new general election? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ortega, thank you very much for your question. All this information is available on the transparency portal, on the procurement platform in a rule of law. I think you have not yet been able to differentiate between two concepts - price and value - when we talk about democratic rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u117	Thank you. Minister, just five months ago, the Spanish people on 28 April cost us the $185 million freeze, which came out of the contingency fund: 140 for logistics, security and scrutiny expenses, and more than 45 million for political party grants, electoral expenses and compensation for the number of seats and votes. By the way, with regard to these subsidies to political parties, this party has demonstrated in five years that one can be in politics, one can participate in all elections without spending a hard one out of the pocket of the Spaniards. That is why the time will come when you will also hear the request for the end of the subsidies. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, do you know, Minister, how much you have calculated the insurance compensation fund that will cost compensation for the terrible damage suffered by the floods in Murcia and Alicante? There are more than 30 000 casualties that are currently estimated at about 200 million; 185 million to spend on elections that you could have avoided if you had the capacity to form a government and 200 million to spend on the Spaniards who are having a bad time in Alicante and Murcia. They should think a little bit about what they spend public money on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Ortega. With reference to the last, which is the answer, the aid for reconstruction, the recovery of all the victims of the natural disaster in the south-east of Spain will have, as has been said, the full support of the Government of Spain, it would be missing more! And I believe that it will not only have the support of the Government of Spain, but of this whole Parliament when it is necessary to approve the area particularly affected by a natural disaster, by an emergency of civil protection. In relation to the other, you're absolutely right. On 28 April, the Spanish people, the citizens, exercised the right-duty of voting and said what they wanted; they said there was a socialist government, a government with President Pedro Sánchez, a progressive government, if we want. But there have been political parties here - some, for lack of that constitutional patriotism of them so much talk and others, for lack of what I would call social patriotism to increase social policies - have not allowed that government to take place and we will repeat the elections. But I'll tell you again: don't confuse price with value. [[Rumors]] And maybe the origin of your question, when you refer to how much it's going to cost us...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u121	... that the elections are repeated, is that perhaps you - and I tell you with all peace and quiet, believe me - yearn for other historical moments, other regimes where citizens could not exercise the right-duty of voting. [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u122	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNACIO GARRIGA VAZ DE CONCICAO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN FUNCTIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT EXPLAIN TO THE CIVIL GUARD OF GALICIA, NAVARRA, VASCO AND CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/000029]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u123	Question by Mr Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, will you expel the government to the Civil Guard in Galicia, Navarre, the Basque Country and Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u125	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Garriga. The answer, Your Honor, is no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u127	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u128	Minister, you, after the People's Party government, have increased the data. And I'm going to talk to you about data so you don't have to build on their possible manipulation: 28% reduction in the state security forces and bodies in the Basque Country since 2011. In Catalonia, more than two hundred requests for transfer for harassment suffered by their children and for the abandonment of their ministry and government, leaving God's hand to the State Security Forces and Bodies. In Galicia, Mr. Feijoó, with this foreseeable abstention from his Government, has stopped after the transfer of trafficking powers to expel the Civil Guard from Galicia as well. In Navarre - the crayon of the cake - with the pact of infamy, you will contribute to reducing that 22% of the State Security Forces and Corpses. Do you know what's going on, Minister? That, above all, we have to endure that Mrs Chivite says that it is democratic normality an act of exaltation of terrorism such as Ospa Eguna. You, sitting there, have allowed the Spaniards to hear such barbarities. In short, Mr. Minister, your Government allows the situation that the Civil Guard and the State Security Forces and Corps are suffering. You continue with the policy of ceasing nationalism, as does the People's Party. Minister, you, like all the blue bench led by Mr Sánchez, have become perfect activists and militants of the PSOE with one single goal: to make the historic promise of Largo Knight of the dissolution of the Civil Guard come true. Let me tell you, Minister, there are a lot of Spaniards who have stood up and said enough. They will have us in front of them to dignify the State Security Forces and Corpses, to re-establish their memory, to protect our borders. On November 10, be assured that Spain will rebuild a hopeful future, saying enough to its irresponsible policies and pointing to Spain's only problem, which is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u129	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garriga, I will agree with you in part. You have spoken of 2011 and the People's Party; it is true. Its members of the People's Party really evicted the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]] In seven years, its partners - and citizens' partners, of course, in the previous legislature, in the previous PP government - reduced 12,000 personnel in all autonomous communities. But you stayed in statistics in June 2018. What happened from June 7, 2018? That we got to work. We have again invested in security, because we want security for all citizens, for those who cannot afford it, so that they can exercise their rights and freedoms. We are already recovering it, with a public job offer of 5,000 officers between police and civilian guards. I repeat, we have clearly and necessarily materialized the wage increase. We are participating in an important remodelling of infrastructures with more than 850 million euros. I repeat: that is taking care of the State Security Forces and Bodies. Many of these infrastructures are in Galicia, in Euskadi, in Catalonia, in the Valencian Country, in the Andalusian community, throughout Spain, because for us there is the word Spain; Spain is a reality, do not forget it. We're on it. This helps the State Security Forces and Bodies, and we do it on a permanent basis. That is the only way to materialize and defend their interests. You perverted the State Security Forces and Bodies; you didn't at that time, but your partners did. I only hope that on 10 November we will be confirmed and ratified in these policies, effective and real security policies to create a freer society for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u131	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ANGELES ROSEDO PEINADO, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS: WHY IS THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN, TO THE SAME AS THEIR PREVIOUS, IS IT UNABLE TO PLAN A STATE STRATEGY AGAINST DEPOBLATION, THAT IS CAPABLE TO ATTACH THE SITUATION OF POPULATION IN WHICH THE MIDDLE OF SPAIN PROVINCIAL PROVINCIES IS ALSO LIVE? [[File number 180/00031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u132	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by María Ángeles Rosado Peinado, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we will agree that the problem of depopulation is a serious state problem, it is a catastrophe that more than half of the country is a demographic desert. Do you remember on 31 March when more than 10 000 people came forward asking for urgent solutions? We did not ask for privileges, we asked for equality for emptied Spain, we go, abandoned by you, by bipartisanism. What have you done to put in place a concrete strategy that will be able to tackle this abandonment of rural Spain for forty years of bipartisanship?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Rosado. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the issue of depopulation in many rural areas of Spain is a priority of the political action of this government and that is why on 29 March we approved in the Council of Ministers the general guidelines for action presented by the excellent work carried out by the Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, as a result of an order made by the Conference of Autonomous Presidents in January 2017.But we have not stayed there. We have carried out actions on rural employment for municipalities with 5000 inhabitants and we have carried out actions to extend connectivity to the Internet, just by putting two small examples of a job undoubtedly phenomenal for a stable and future constituted government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u136	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rosado.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u137	You say you've done a lot, but people don't get to us, I tell you. Look, this is the map of the depopulation of Pilar Burillo, recognised by the European Union and the Ombudsman. [[shows a map]] The colors are unpopulated areas, and they grow every year, because people die and no children are born. His strategy is nothing but wet paper, it's incompetence. They have turned us into third-party citizens, without basic services, without rights or opportunities. Do you know, Minister, that more than 90% of the territory of the province of Guadalajara does not have pediatricians; that the region of Molina de Aragón, the zero area of depopulation in Spain, has the hospital at 140 kilometers; that there are large infrastructures planned, budgeted, published in the BOE and not executed for years? This is what makes people go away. We've been kicked out. I am from a village of 50 inhabitants, mother and farmer; I have worked the land with my hands, and there the women, who we generate and fix population, we have to choose between being mothers or having a professional life, because both is impossible. We need to launch the state pact and the commission against depopulation proposed by citizens and work now, which is late, minister. The people of the rural world want to be able to choose freely and equally where to live and not be different in rights for the territory in which we were born. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Rosado. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u139	Madam Member, I agree with you in the interest of the subject, but your question has asked me two strange things. The first is that this is a question of state, this is not a question of partisan struggle. Here we have to unite the Government of Spain with the autonomous communities, with the parliaments and with the municipalities, and not as you have done to raise the shortcomings, which we know. If we do not unite the efforts of all, there will be no possibility, and it will not be a one-day task, it will not be a one-day task. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I know that you are a farmer and I will be able to agree with you on many things relating to farmers, livestock, forestry and rural areas, but you belong to Citizens, and a political party that has blocked the possibility of Spain having a stable and future government cannot raise questions about what this government is doing. [[Applauds]] We are going to do this but please no more questions to divide but questions and initiatives to unite, which is what Spain needs, what the rural environment needs and what those populations to which you refer need. [[Applauds]] I thought I was going to display a map of the European Union, because you know that this is a problem in Spain, but also in the European Union. There is a responsible Commissioner in the new team of Commissioners of the European Commission and we are going to work together, but please let us not use partisanly an issue that seriously affects - and in which I have a great deal of interest - all those inhabitants of the small municipalities of Spain - of which I feel very close - which do not deserve us to use in the partisan struggle their interests. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u140	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH COURTS AND EQUALITY IN FUNCTIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO RELIEF THE REQUIREMENT PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 155 OF THE CONSTITUTION TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUONE TO GUARANTEE THAT IT IS COMPLETED WITH ITS CONSTITUTIONAL OBLIGATIONS? [[File number 180/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u141	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u142	Thank you, Madam President. This question was for the Vice-President, because it is within her competence, but she has delegated it and is not even already in the Chamber. Minister, it is a very simple question: do you believe that the Generalitat of Catalonia respects the constitutional rights of all Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Minister-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u144	Well, Mrs. Arrimadas, you ask the question and the government answers it. I have no problem with you; I hope you do not have it with me. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: What a coward!]] I would simply like to say that the Spanish Government respects and enforces the Constitution and the law throughout the national territory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u145	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u146	The Government of Spain saying that in Catalonia nothing happens! I know you're ruling with Puigdemont in the Barcelona Diputation, but I'm going to tell you things that happen in Catalonia. [[protests]] Look: in schools children are spyed on to see what language they speak; in the public media, more than half of Catalans are manipulated and insulted every day. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Calm down, calm down]] Do you know what happens in Catalonia? That is sent to the Mossos d'Esquadra to identify two citizens for putting the anthem of Spain, but other days they cut roads and tracks of the train and it seems that nothing happens. In Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat calls for total chaos after the verdict of the trial, and it could put a long et cetera, which is summed up in one thing: with you in the Government you are violating the rights of millions of citizens every day and you do nothing but protect and defend the nationalists - no one touches them - but then attack those we denounce their abuses. It does not surprise us anything that they have not been able to accept or three basic conditions for unlocking, three! The first, that in Navarre you do not govern with the ultranationalists of Geroa Bai, a government that depends on Bildu. We simply asked them to make a government with Navarra Suma. They said no. Why? Because they want to rule with the nationalists. The second, don't pardon the thugs. Yesterday you voted with two hands, all of you, against the commitment not to pardon the coupsmen. Why? Because they want to pardon them and because they don't want to protect us in Catalonia by applying the Constitution. And the third, the whole of Spain knows it: they cannot commit not to raise taxes to the self-employed because it is the only thing they know how to do, to put their hand in the pocket of the middle and working class. [[Rumors]] Look, they've seen the plumber, they've seen it all over Spain: they wanted elections. He's seen all over Spain that Sánchez is blocked, Sánchez is unstable, Sánchez is a problem. But, I tell you one thing, and don't forget: don't trust yourself, that you wouldn't be the first to call elections thinking you're going to go up a lot and then you're going to hit an electoral baton, and if you don't ask Susana Díaz. [[Protests]] Don't trust yourselves, because these elections are going to be the second chance to take you out of Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u148	Yes, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, the Spanish Constitution has 169 articles, additional provisions - indeed, that of foral historical rights -, final provisions, transitional provisions. You limit it to one article: Article 155 of the Constitution and applied to Catalonia. The vision of its constitutionalism is very restrictive. On July 2, the Constitutional Court issued two rulings that it would be good for you to read, the 89/2019 and the 90/2019, and say three very clear things. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: We've read them already]] The first: 155 is not a preventive instrument that can be used for any situation, manifestation or word, no; it is applied by acts and decisions. The second: it is a very serious instrument that we have already used, which the previous Government used with the support of my party and with the support of you. These judgments are the consequences of two appeals initiated by Unidad Podemos and the Parliament of Catalonia, and the definition of this serious act is very clear: it is a last extreme, it is a last ratio. Therefore, you cannot use it as an ordinary mechanism, as if it were the contentious-administrative. The third is a provision which must have a limited temporal scope, precisely because of the exceptional nature of the measure. But I'll be right back. You see, when there is a breach, this government acts: in the matter of the symbols of Spain, in the matter of the neutrality of public buildings, in the matter of the external plan made by the Generalitat of Catalonia and, of course, enforcing the Constitution and the law. We respect the Constitutional Court's reading; it would be good for you to do so too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u149	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT VEHICLES DOES THE VEHICLES OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DemonstratION GOVERNMENT OF 11 SEPTEMBER IN BARCELONA, ONE TWENTY MORE, RECEIVED A THOUSANDS OF PERSONS? [[File number 180/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u150	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer from the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u151	Thank you, President. We, Junts per Catalunya, recorded a prayer question: What assessment does the vice president make...? And yet, the vice president is not here and they make the minister of agriculture answer. No offense, Mr Planas, this is the strategy of the PSOE, which in the time of truth never disappoints, never fails, and eludes its responsibilities. As the Vice-President of the Parliament, Josep Costa, said, they asked for the vote to stop on the right and now they ask again because they have not been able to rule with the right; it should be added that with the left either. Finally, I would like to ask: What is the Government's assessment of the demonstration of 11 September, National Day of Catalonia, which brought hundreds of thousands of people to the streets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. As you certainly know, because it is a member of the Congress of Deputies, Spain is a rule of law that, logically, protects the right of opinion, assembly and demonstration. The President of the Government indicated this a few days ago in this House: we would have hoped that the Diada held on 11 September in Barcelona would be the Diada of all Catalans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u155	Thank you. We too would have liked it, especially because political prisoners and exiles could also have celebrated the Day with the people we were on the street. We would've wanted it. Ten years of continued, peaceful demonstrations are not a heat, and ten years of the state's constitutional disloyalty to Catalonia is a nightmare. These hundreds of thousands of people who went out on the street were asking very clearly for dialogue, ballot boxes and independence; they were asking for acquittal, they were asking for justice, they were asking us to end this nightmare of political prisoners and exiles. We have heard a while ago that we are a rich territory and that we do not want to share our wealth with Spain. They have understood nothing, but it is the same, we have taken a path without return. Since they do not make self-criticism, questions can be asked as to why this situation is happening. Does the Statute cut by this House and the Constitutional Court ring a bell? Since when is a court above the democratic vote of citizens? Is this the law that you think we should comply with? I ask you questions; the only answers we have had from the state are lame when we go out to vote, 155 - which is a mantra that everyone repeats - and judicial proceedings. Mrs. Arrimadas said that nothing was happening in Catalonia: more than a thousand processes open to citizens and public officials. You have opened such a great distance between the state institution and the Catalan citizens that there can only be the only way out that the demonstrators ask, which is dialogue, ballot boxes and independence... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. He's running out of time. Minister-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, I believe that you, as always, confuse democracy with rules and institutions, and we must respect the rules and institutions precisely in order to make that democracy alive and real. Look, it is not for the Government to value a meeting, a rally, a demonstration, of thousands of people in Catalonia that took place on 11 September. By the way, I take the opportunity to say that peacefully, although there was a timely case of aggression against a journalist that the Government evidently wants to condemn because it seems to me that any violence is always condemnable, and more so in this situation; but it was indeed an exceptional phenomenon. You'll allow me to ask you two questions. The first, how do you appreciate the fact that, as everyone has said - the Barcelona Urban Guard - last year there would be a million protesters and that this was the least numerous Day since 2012 in Barcelona? The government does not want to value it, but you should think about what they have done, what they have thought, how they have acted. Secondly, what do you think about the fact that in opinion polls the independence that you represent is every day lower from the point of view of popular support. I believe that both circumstances should make you think and at difficult times for all the institutions and for our democracy, such as those that will undoubtedly come, I believe it is very important in this context that you once and for all choose the path of respect for the Constitution and the law, and on that path this Government will always be ready for dialogue. Outside the Constitution and the law there will be no possible dialogue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u158	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND ENTREPRESENTATION IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS PROVIDED FOR, ON THE VIEW OF THE SIGNAL EVIDENTS OF ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE? [[File number 180/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u159	Question addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u160	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to apologize to the Spaniards for the shameful spectacle since all of you, Socialist Party gentlemen, are leading us to a new election call. [[Rumors]] I am ashamed to be your partner here in the Chamber, and that you have been the only ones in all of Spain who have not been able to agree with anyone. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I was going to ask the Minister what measures the Government had planned in view of the obvious signs of economic slowdown. I was thinking of asking you this, but today I think the best step you can take is to leave all of you, because at the moment when we are now there are no more requests but perhaps it would be better for us to take stock. Minister, do you think Spain is better or worse than a year ago? The Minister of Finance and you came to the Government of Spain and the Spanish began to lose their jobs; the Minister of Finance left the Government of Andalusia and the Andalusians began to find jobs. [[Laughter]] Spain is worse than a year ago, when you and your colleagues arrived in the government, and only a few examples are enough: the worst August since 2010, 54 000 people have gone to the queue of unemployment, 6800 members have lost Social Security a day, 557 self-employed, 557 families have lost their jobs every day; the sale of housing has fallen by 21 % and the sale of cars by 30 %, by 9 % throughout the year. Spain is worse, the Spaniards are worse and you are worse too, because you were a prestigious person when you were in Europe and today you are part of a discredited government, even more so since yesterday. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u161	Thank you, Mr. García. Minister of Economy and Enterprise in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u162	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, our Government has worked very hard since the first day with a clear objective: to strengthen confidence in the Spanish economy, to contribute to economic growth and job creation, to improve the quality of life of citizens and to build a better future for our children. That's what we've been doing for the past 15 months, with visible results, by the way, and that's what we'll continue to do for the next four years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u163	Thank you, Minister. Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u164	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish not only suffer the consequences of their mismanagement and this coming economic crisis, but also those who have suffered the tragedy suffer their mismanagement. We all have to be united in the tragedies, the mortal victims must be honored and must always be remembered, and there we have to be all united, but we can also help those affected, those who have stayed here and lost everything. However, your Government is not responding adequately because one year later you have not yet paid those affected in Mallorca and Malaga last year. Are you going to have to wait in Murcia, Alicante and Andalusia also a year to receive the aid? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u165	Thank you, Mr. Aegean. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u166	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the Government is working intensively every day, as I said, to improve the quality of life of citizens and confidence in the Spanish economy. This has led us to have very clear results, since over the past year we have seen how this confidence improved through responsible management of public resources and also through a clear, understandable economic policy supported by international agencies and financial markets. This responsible action is what Spain needs in a fall that is going to be very complicated, as we all know; we are talking about economic cooling in our environment, we are talking about the Brexit, we are talking about the slowdown in Germany, issues that I have repeatedly talked about and the President of the Government himself made a monograph. But beyond those distant issues, you are right to point out the importance of working for the citizens, and precisely our Government has responded adequately to those needs. In the case of the Ministry of Economy, the Insurance Compensation Consortium has already been made available to all citizens affected by the rains of these days - the terrible cold drop - to respond as soon as possible and compensate them for their losses. I believe that in a complicated environment it is precisely when it is more important to have a sensible and responsible government, because in this situation there is no such alarmism about reactions, let alone the repetition of absolutely spurious and incorrect figures and comparisons. I do not have time here to respond to all the details, but from the Ministry of Economics we will gladly do so, because governance is going to work without scarecrows, proactively, in good coordination with economic agents and citizens and putting the long lights on. That is what our Government has been doing since the first day, and I trust that we will continue to do so for the next four years, because I believe that this is the government that the Spanish citizens deserve. And if you want to help, you have nothing more to say, because the future is not written and the reality will be what we can build together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u167	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u168	We are now dealing with appeals to the Government in office. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the connectivity of the Canary Islands. For her defence, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should continue the plenary with a certain silence so that we can hear the speaker well.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, heaven is the highway that connects the Canary Islands with the world. A year ago, when Vice-President Calvo brought us together with the spokespersons on the subject of Brexit - the first - I still remember - I was the last to intervene - that when I asked her what was going to happen with the compensations for the transport of tomato and canary cucumber, which were 80% of our exports to the UK, she told me that this was a minor issue. When I asked him about the plan for Iberia, he told me that was a private company problem. Later, when I told you that, I was disqualified by PSOE Members in various areas. And that was a year ago, without the perfect storm we have right now on our land. For you to know, in the Canary Islands always, as in the Balearic Islands, we noticed the great economic crises a year earlier because cancellations begin. And why am I talking about the perfect storm? Yesterday Norwegian has decided to eliminate connections from Sweden and Denmark with the Canary Islands, specifically with Fuerteventura. Today Thomas Cook, who has 2.6 million passengers between January and August to the Canary Islands, is on the verge of bankruptcy and in a complicated situation, and while the English air authority is preparing a plan, ours, silence. But not only that, for the winter season, 300 000 air seats have already been cancelled with the Canary Islands of Germany and 70 000 from the United Kingdom. And we have two problems: Iberia, which was a private company's problem, Brussels did not approve of the contingency plan; it gave a six-month extension. Iberia and Vueling currently account for almost 60% of the Canary Islands-Península air connections. Ryanair has also announced the loss of 7,000 seats per month. We are talking about 300 000 seats, but Ryanair accounts for another 19% and Norwegian 417 000 with the closure of the bases in the Canary Islands. We are talking about that, at one point, that perfect storm, 82% of the Canary Islands-Peninsula airfields can collapse. But we're not just talking about the Canary Islands, these four companies, not to mention the 2.5 million Thomas Cook, account for 30% of the total Canary Islands connectivity. And we meet with a minister, Mrs Maroto, and I mean last week or the previous week, who says that Iberia is the one who must seek solutions in the hard Brexit, and also says it in the World Tourism Organization. And not only that, he says that if Ryanair disappears in the Canary Islands and other communities - but today I am focusing on the Canary Islands - when that happens, we will act. Frankly, we are going to enter elections with a government in office, but the issue of air space connectivity is not solved when the problem arises, especially in communities such as the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands, but it has to be resolved one year in advance, which is when the places are reserved. I say that in this winter 300 000 less Germany, 70 000 less the United Kingdom. Mr Ábalos, I know you are the secretary of organisation of the Socialist Party, but today I speak to you from serenity and responsibility. We are talking about 40% of our economy. Behind this there are not only air stations, but thousands of jobs: 300 Ryanair, Norway, but then thousands in those hotels, taxis, shops. Fuerteventura, for the first time in history, had to close hotels in the lapse between March and June. It had never happened in the history of the Canary Islands! We have to work at national level on issues of new markets, of course, but ensuring connectivity and involving the Spanish Government in Iberia's contingency plan, because what would have happened if it had been in October? That it would have been unsolved. It is not a question of an extension, but of the Government of Spain having to involve itself in connectivity because the Canary Islands, every time a company has fallen, Spanair in its time, Spantax, with what are we not going to stay? Only with the Canary Islands-Península flights of Air Europe and Binter? This is our country, the Canary Islands, and we need 80% of the airlines to be guaranteed. They have to work together with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Tourism with the Government of the Canary Islands and with the entrepreneurs of the sector in order to get ahead of us, and not that phrase of 'we'll see when it happens' or 'this is a problem of a private company'. It is a problem of the Canary Islands, of 14 million tourists who can stay without reaching the Canary Islands, of 2 million canaries, and they are not worth functioning governments, it is not worth electoral campaign; we have to be there. I am going to devote the next six minutes to a topic that you and I have been talking about and which seems very important to us. I know the ministry has been working on it, but this can't go on like this. And I'm going to give you a dice. Today, if you want to go from Lanzarote to London, the ticket leaves for 155 euros. If you want to go from Lanzarote to Madrid today, it costs you the cheapest ticket 483 euros. The same crew, much more fuel, many more hours and different air rates. When you are resident it is worth 127, but in reality the Government of Spain is paying three hundred and a half peaks, and in tourist. Because you know something, Mr. Ábalos? What I told him in private in his private office: the problem is that they continue to pay the credit of residents to those who travel in business. The ministry, part of those hundreds of millions of euros that it pays to the Canary Islands - that they don't have to put it in my face, as did a charge from their party, because if it costs 400 or 500 the Canary Islands we are entitled to that - is because they continue to pay the resident's allowance to those who travel in business. I confirmed it this morning at the travel agency, but I told him eight months ago. Two other things also happen, Mr Ábalos. First of all, what a coincidence that all the companies that have compensation for the transportation financed by the ministry for the canaries, just on the same dates raise the tickets in the same amounts: bridges, weekends, Holy Week or Christmas. This is where the National Competition Market Commission has to act. There's an agreement between companies. And, secondly - I shatter it for no one to accuse me -, 'there's a possibility of fraud'. Coalition Canaria denounced it when transport compensation was approved at the time of the PP, but they did not want to pay attention to us. Many months ago I told him that when one is a canary and starts taking out a ticket the first thing they ask him, before giving him the price, is whether he is a resident or not when it should be the last. You're from Madrid and you ask the price of Canaries and I'm from Canaries and I ask the price and the last thing must be if you're a resident, right? No; the first question when you're going to make a reservation is whether you're a resident or not. If my cousin who is from La Coruña gets into the same moment as me and I are in the Canary Islands, the price of La Coruña is different from mine in the Canary Islands. And in his office I told him something else. There's a fraud - I'm not gonna tell who told me, but it was a company person - which is next. I don't understand much about computers, but it has to do with IPs. Companies have a system by which if I am Canary and take notes from my computer repeatedly, when I am going to take one out in Valladolid the company already knows that I am resident. Look what I'm telling you. At the same time here in Madrid a fellow Member and I start making a reservation and give us different prices because they locate the IPs. An association called Canaries Without Wings was created. These are canary people who have had to come to live in Madrid or the Peninsula, people who are still with their parents, with their children, separated parents, and we have to solve the situation for them. When you come with children to the Peninsula, so that they can go to school you are required to register but not with the father or mother who is still in the Canary Islands, and those boys who have shared custody or who go on vacation to see their parents to the Canary Islands on bridges or on weekends have to pay - and they will not do it because they cannot - up to 800 euros. When the father or mother of a canary gets sick and has to go for a few days or go to a funeral, it can cost him a thousand euros and if they are several family members it is impossible. We believe that there is inflation, abusive prices of air transport in the Canary Islands and this cannot go on. There must be not only a ministry price observatory, but a thorough investigation, because this does not happen in Madeira or the Azores at Christmas. At Christmas, the tickets reach 1500 euros per citizen and the canaries living on the Peninsula can't go because if you have a couple and three kids, how are you going to spend 7000 euros spending Christmas with your parents? This is costing the state millions and we have to work to get a price research done. It can't be cheaper Lanzarote-London, Lanzarote-Munich or Lanzarote-Moscow than Lanzarote-Madrid. We cannot risk, Mr Ábalos, losing the connections of Iberia, Vueling, Norwegian and Ryanair at the same time. It cannot be that we are not acting from Tourism to open up new markets. On these planes also come the medicines, the plants of cut flower, the products of the agricultural sector. We have to guarantee in Brussels the financing of the transport of goods going to the United Kingdom - potatoes, tomatoes and cucumber - that is 60% of our GDP, our gross domestic product, but above all behind these figures there are many faces of men and women working in the Canary Islands, and we do not have many more alternatives in my land. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Members.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government in office, the Minister for Development in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. With regard to the call made to explain the measures to be taken by the Government of Spain to ensure the connectivity of the Canary Islands, both persons and goods, to the Brexit and its consequences for Iberia and the situation of Ryanair and Norwegian, as a result of the appearance of the President of the Government that took place last week, I will focus on the affection of Brexit to the different areas of competence of the department, with particular regard to the Canary Islands. I will confine myself in this first intervention to the question, to what I was saying, because it seems to me that it is quite important to deal with the consequences of Brexit in relation to transport. I therefore thank you for the opportunity you have given me to do so. I shall refer first to the framework for competition and action available, as well as to the measures being taken in the event of the undesirable hard Brexit. This is because if a withdrawal were to take place with agreement, in principle no specific action would be required as the current status quo is extended. I will start with air transport, since it is probably the most affected by its relevance for the connectivity of Spain and in particular for the cohesion of the Canary Islands. It is also because of its direct contribution to the economy and especially to the tourism sector - as Mrs Oramas has rightly pointed out - and which has one of the most relevant markets in the United Kingdom. However, I must warn you that in the past year there has been a weakening of United Kingdom air traffic with the Canary Islands, either because of the Brexit effect or because of the recovery of competing markets, both related effects. First, I will focus on the possible effect of IAG and its subsidiaries Iberia, Iberia Express and Vueling. As you know, IAG owns an important part of the companies that I have just mentioned and has a significant percentage of UK investors among its shareholders, who will cease to be Community investors after the Brexit, becoming considered investors of a third state from a European point of view. The regulation of the air transport market within the Union provides that, in order for a European airline to obtain and maintain in force the operating licence - an enabling licence for the provision of air services in the European Union - one of the conditions to be fulfilled is that more than 50 % of the ownership of the airline and its effective control are vested in the Member States or its nationals. In this regard, it is clear that all the Spanish airlines concerned have worked intensively to prepare action plans in anticipation of this scenario. In addition, for all companies affected by this situation to have time to make the necessary changes, the connectivity contingency regulation provided for a period of six months from the actual departure from the United Kingdom, for companies to implement the necessary changes. To this end, the only condition is to have submitted a satisfactory adaptation plan prior to 11 April. In relation to this issue, all the Spanish airlines concerned, including those of the IAG Group, submitted an adaptation plan in time and form to the State Aviation Safety Agency. These plans have been analysed and considered satisfactory by EASA, i.e. they are considered to comply fully with European legislation once implemented. This result was referred to the committee last June. In short, the company is currently following the steps provided for in the Contingency Regulation. In any case, from the ministry we follow the situation closely to verify that not only Iberia but all the companies concerned implement their adaptation plans as appropriate. I was also asked about the situation of Ryanair and Norwegian, although neither of the two companies is British. In the event of a severe breach, all European and British companies may continue to operate air services between the two territories in full normality, at least until October 2020, once the amendment to the Connectivity Regulation is formally approved under the Contingency Regulation. In the short term, therefore, services are guaranteed throughout the European Union, something which, of course, is very important for the Canary Islands. On the other hand, in relation to airport conditions, from Fomento we want Spanish tariffs to be competitive because we know that one element is the price paid by passengers; in fact, the AENA Board of Directors approved that for next year they will fall by 1.17% as a whole and there will also be a significant reduction in air navigation route charges. The departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union also means its exit from the European Economic Area and thus passengers arriving in Spain to the United Kingdom would suddenly be increased by approximately 25 % as it is already an international non-European destination. In order to avoid the negative effects this abrupt change would have on the national economy, and particularly on tourist destinations such as the Canary Islands, the Government decided to include a specific measure in the Royal Decree-Law on Contingency Measures so that tariffs to the United Kingdom would not be increased until 28 February 2020. As the above date approaches, and especially if there is finally an unagreed Brexit, it will logically be possible to revise this date to extend the deadline and thereby alleviate the effects of the exit and achieve a transition as gradual as possible. On the other hand, the Ministry of Development and AENA are working with the relevant ministries to alleviate the impact on new security and customs controls that will have to be applied to British citizens after the Brexit. These measures will entail the need to increase the staffing of control personnel dedicated to these functions and, of course, an increase in the staff of the State Security Forces and Corpses in order to avoid further queues and waiting times for passengers. It is, as I say, an issue that is being addressed by all the ministries involved and that is sufficiently addressed today. As regards the transport of goods, the Ministry of Development provides annual aid for the transport of goods of agricultural and industrial products, for which in 2018 we allocate more than 81 million euros. The transport of the following products is currently being subsidized: almost all agricultural products, especially tomatoes, in addition to fresh plants, flowers, cuttings and edible fruits, and industrial products originating in or processed in the Canary Islands, inputs necessary for their production, and petroleum and its derivatives originating in or processed in the Canary Islands. In this respect, the United Kingdom is the main destination for agricultural exports from the Canary Islands. Thus, in the case of aid for the transport of goods, of the total subsidy granted to products whose traffic was Canary Islands with the rest of the European Union, 55 % was granted for the Canary Islands-United Kingdom traffic, some EUR 3 million; of this amount, tomato to the United Kingdom received 40 % of the total subsidy to the countries of the European Union, and cucumber 15 %. In the case of transport aid financed from the State General Budgets, a special aid scheme approved by the Commission which applies to Community transport is in force until December 2020. In the event of a breach without an agreement, the United Kingdom would be excluded from this authorisation, so that such aid cannot continue to be granted. From the government we are going to make every effort to, in the case of an unagreed Brexit, maximise the possible effects of the Canarian agricultural sector and, in particular, on tomato and cucumber producers, who would be most affected by the UK remaining outside the European Union. This is a matter in which the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of the State have to work with maximum coordination, as the final solution necessarily involves the European institutions. The Community legal system, in particular Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures in the outermost regions of the European Union, including the Canary Islands, aimed at compensating for the effects of the structural, permanent and cumulative disadvantages they suffer. Without ruling out any option, we are currently working at a technical level to explore the possibilities of adapting subsidies to freight transport in the event of a hard Brexit. For ports of general interest, exposure to the risk of Brexit focuses on increasing controls and inspections on goods that would entail a hard Brexit. The increase in border controls and inspections basically implies that there may be a need to strengthen the staffing levels related to such activities, an aspect in which the ministry has been working with the rest of the ministries concerned. In short, from the Government and the Ministry of Development in particular we are following in detail the Brexit and its condition both to the Canary Islands and to the rest of the national territory, considering all possible scenarios, analyzing its impact in the areas of our competence and taking measures to compensate them, as I have just detailed them. If I may, in the next intervention I will go into the other more specific issues that you have raised with me about the consequences or side effects of the 75 % bonus on transport. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u172	Thank you very much, Mr de Fomento. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u173	Minister, it has happened to you as it happened the first time we had the rifirmrafe, which has been written to people who do not know, who do not consult and who only look at the month of July and, above all, what seems incredible to me is that you have not heard what I have said. When I do the interpellation I put brexit, coma, and then I put Ryanair and Norwegian. Of course we know that Ryanair and Norwegian have nothing to do with Brexit! I was talking about the perfect storm coming over the Canary Islands. You just said - because they have written it down - that Iberia's contingency plan has been approved since July. Look, Iberia introduced him, Brussels denies him and the company continues to maintain compliance. [[shows a document]] Meeting of the World Tourism Organization [[shows a photograph]] Second of all, are you telling me you're not going to lose places? I am telling you that 300 000 have already fallen in the winter season, which is the high season of Germany and 70 000 of the United Kingdom. I'm telling you that Norwegian, at his meeting with the board of creditors and investors, has already cancelled all flights to Fuerteventura from Denmark and Norway. I am telling you that Ryanair will suspend its bases with Canarias on 1 January: 7000 places per day. I'm telling you that Thomas Cook Airlines is in a difficult situation and I'm telling you that in the end all these companies will form that perfect storm that accounts for 80% of flights between the Canary Islands and the Peninsula. And you - which is not you, is your advisor, your chief of staff or whatever - come to tell me what's there. But what I'm telling you is that we have to act now, that we can't do it when it happens, that we have to get involved in the Vueling and Iberia - Canarias plan can't be without Iberia and Vueling -, that we have to solve the Ryanair thing because it involves 7,000 flights a day and affects 300 workers. Behind this, Mr Ábalos, there are not only numbers, there are people with life projects who will go to unemployment, who are already going to unemployment in Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. The only connection to La Palma is Iberia's daily flight. It can't be. I didn't need to hear what you told me, the number of flights we already know. But there are statements that we cannot allow. He also told me about the European commodity regulation, but, of course, we already know that. A year ago, when Carmen Calvo told me that tomato and cucumber were minor things, I told him to work with the Posei, with Brussels - right, minister? - to see if we could reach an agreement, because otherwise, it will not happen. I remember he was telling me that the problem would happen when the trucks arrived in Calais and I was telling him that that would be for the Valencians, that for the Canary Islands the problem is not that the tomatoes and export cucumbers arrive in Calais, but that they leave the Canary Islands and arrive in the United Kingdom. [[The lady]] There are faces, there are human lives. I'm not blaming you, I'm warning you what's going to happen to Canarias. The Canary Islands are represented on the maps, as you well know, in a box. Minister, I'm asking you not to turn that box into a wall today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u175	Thank you, President. Mrs Oramas, I have tried to be faithful to the text of the inquiry. I have also warned that in this second round I would refer to some of the issues that you raised to me from the rostrum, beyond the tenor of the inquiry, which concerned the measures that this Government intended to take in the case of Brexit and also the situation of Ryanair and Norwegian, which have nothing to do with Brexit, since both are not British. You have asked me about the measures we are going to take and I have to answer what you are asking me. On the other hand, it also seemed to me a good opportunity for the rest of your ladies and gentlemen - if they are interested - to know them, because you put the emphasis on the Canary Islands but also affect the whole of Spain and this was an opportunity. With regard to what you have rightly asked me, as always, I must thank you for giving me information, which has not fallen into a broken bag. I have already told you that we need to address these incidences, these perverse behaviours, which are disturbing one of the measures we are taking, which is the 70% bonus for the Canary Islands' trips to the peninsula. In addition, this is an important matter for the state's finances. In fact, subsidies for both air and sea passenger transport for residents of the Canary Islands have involved an investment of EUR 532 million and in 2019 we expect to exceed EUR 625 million for this type of aid; that is, we are talking about something really important. In this regard, it is true that there has been a substantial increase in the demand for air connections, approximately 15% interinsular and 20% on peninsular routes. We have also observed that prices have behaved differently, there are increases of 20% on average and, in some cases, up to 40%. It is true that there has been an effect-consequence, obviously, because the bonus stimulates demand, but it is also true that it constitutes an income for very clear and certain companies, so there may be these behaviors. To this end, we have commissioned a study at Pompeu Fabra University on the effects of these subsidies on transport. In parallel, work is under way with the Tax Agency on a cross-reference between resident and income travel databases to obtain information on the correlation between travel and income level. We want to know exactly who is benefiting from these bonuses and how many times they are benefiting, because they might benefit not too many and sometimes too many. Therefore, it is good to have that information previously and rigorously. It is also collaborating with the National Commission on Markets and Competition in the detection of alleged anti-competitive behaviour, as you have denounced here in the rostrum. We therefore agree that the committee must be involved in this. We have also provided AIReF with data on the gross settlement of air transport bonuses for the study of the subsidy scheme. It should be noted that the recently modified REF de Canarias makes it possible to seek more equitable alternative solutions, provided that the aid provided so that the service does not deteriorate is not diminished. We are open to all this because, as I said, there are many resources, the purpose is laudable, the aim should be to preserve it, but we must adjust it and prevent some from taking advantage of it. Therefore, you know that all the information that can be transferred to us will always be well received and that, moreover, this is a common task because, ultimately, it is for the benefit of the Canary Islands and Canary Islands. As far as Iberia is concerned, we do not have a negative response from the Commission, as the only thing he has told us is that he is going to demand or require more information about the company's control, that is, that it can actually be credited that he has Spanish control. We have said that we are open to what we are being called upon to do, and so we are. However, the Spanish Aviation Safety Agency's phase is covered and we are at the disposal of the European Commission to clarify this. As regards Ryanair, we are holding quite a few meetings in the most discreet way possible, because we are interested not only in connectivity, which the company tells us is not going to be affected - in fact, there is no plan to affect connectivity - but if it is going to affect the bases and therefore the workers, mainly in Catalonia and the Canary Islands, as we are talking about employment and, as you said, people's lives. In this sense, in principle, we are leading it through the Ministry of Labour, which is the one that mediates in these labor conflicts, but as far as connectivity is concerned we are also working on the support that we can provide from the Ministry of Development, as we are permanently in contact with this company, trying to deter it from implementing these plans, trying to see how we can intervene so that it does not carry out these plans. That is what we are doing and we are doing, no doubt, all possible efforts. That's how Work does it, that's how Industry does it and that's how Fomento is doing it, in a coordinated way, but each one on the side where more can enter the company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u176	Thank you very much. - THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE TRUTH OF THE PROJECTED IMAGEN, AT THE STATE AND INTERNATIONAL LEVEL, ON CATALUNIA. [[File number 172/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u177	Then, urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the veracity of the projected image at state and international level on Catalonia. For her defence, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u178	Thank you, President. Minister, with all due respect, we find it a shame that it is the Minister of Agriculture and not the Vice-President of the Government who responds to an inquiry like this, because we do not think how the Minister of Agriculture can respond to the conflict between the State and Catalonia, the most important political conflict that the State has on the table. And does the Minister of Agriculture answer us? What are you afraid of, Mrs. Calvo, what are you afraid of? [[Applauds]] In any case, Minister, I would like to have a conversation one day to explain to me what you are going to do to prevent the fall in the price of the grapes that your Government has caused and that it is ruining Catalan producers. This morning, to a question from my colleague Gabriel Rufián, President Sánchez replied that the project he has for Catalonia is exactly the same as it has for Andalusia, the Canary Islands or Castile. It is good that the Catalans and the Catalans when they go to vote on 10 November know that Mr Sánchez has no political project for Catalonia and that he also threatens us with a new 155. That's your dialogue, bravo! You are nationalists who only conceive of Spain and a single, unitary, centralist Spain in which the territories do not exist; it is as you think, it is the only Spain you conceive. But what as democrats cannot do is defend their unity through lies. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, in Spain there is a great lie that keeps Jordi Cuixart, Jordi Sánchez, Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Joaquim Forn in prison: the great lie of violence. [[Applauds]] There have been demonstrations of millions of people. Where are the wreckage of the alleged violence? Where are the stones, the fires, the Molotov cocktails, the wounded? There aren't. Unfortunately, we are all used to seeing images of violence in demonstrations between football ultras or in riots with the police. Where are those images in Catalonia? There are none, because in Catalonia there has never been violence, not even on October 1 when the Spanish Police and the Civil Guard attacked the population who were in the polling stations. And there was an answer, yes, a violent response, but not by the population that was going to vote. On October 1, it was you who demonstrated your willingness to use that violence against us simply because you wanted to vote. In no democratic country in the world happens what happened that day. And in the face of their violence, the people of Catalonia did not respond with violence, as it could not be otherwise, but with civil disobedience and in a peaceful manner. Don't you realize the degree of pacifism of the self-determinationist independence movement? Don't you realize that despite the dozens and dozens of police assaults, there were no riots or riots? Not to recognize and affirm that ours is a peaceful movement is to lie to the population, not to the Catalan, but to the Spanish population. [[Applauds]] The Spanish democrats and the state media should reflect on this. Even though you are against Catalonia's independence, you should recognize that it is a peaceful movement. Moreover, they should rejoice and exalt the fact that independence in Catalonia is peaceful. From Esquerra Republicana we are very proud of the pacifism of our people, of the actions of our people and our Government both in the demonstrations and on October 1. Are you proud of the 'a for them' and the blows, the performance of the judges and of imprisoning us? If there is no violence in Catalonia, why do they lie and legitimize the lie with their silence? Why do the vast majority of journalists and state citizens buy the argument of alleged violence that they have not been able to see even on their televisions? What justifies you lying to your citizenship? Does the unity of Spain justify the lie? Is Spain's unity above truth and justice itself? The lie of violence has a clear political purpose: to make us look violent and evil, to dehumanize ourselves to justify in their conscience the blows, repression and imprisonment. And, above all, lies seek to legitimize the imprisonment of political prisoners and prisoners who have been tried for crimes that require violence that has not occurred. But you, who fill the mouth of the rule of law, intend to punish us beyond what the laws say, intend to punish our policies according to the punishment you believe you should have and not according to what the law establishes. It is precisely from this fact that a second fallacy arises: the prisoners and political prisoners who are in prison knew what they were facing. For it is not true, because they have been tried for crimes that require such violence that has not occurred; because you and your courts seek to twist the law and the dictionary to consider disobedience and civil and peaceful resistance as violence; because the regime of 78 does not seek either truth or justice, seeks revenge and above all to scare us and humiliate us so that in the future no other politician dares to try again. To that end, and apart from what the law itself says, the 78's regime pays a sentence of condemnation by telling the lie, you legitimize it, while exerting pressure on the judges. Do you and the Spanish people really accept the lie and wish to condemn political prisoners and prisoners for a crime they have not committed? Is that your concept of democracy? Do you really want judges to pass sentences for ideology and not for evidence? And here's a third falsehood. You have no responsibility, prisoners and politicians are the responsibility of justice, not Parliament or this government. Really? You really don't have any responsibility? Do they really pretend to wash their hands like Pontius Pilate before lies and injustice? If so, you are obviating two considerations. Firstly, that in this Parliament it is where the laws by which they are supposed to be condemned are made and it is in this Parliament where they can be changed if they are not considered fair, and secondly, that the whole apparatus of the State - including that part of the apparatus which depends on the government - is acting in an organized and biased manner in order to condemn our political prisoners and prisoners. One of the clearest examples is the statements of the police and civilian guards who acted on 1 October in Catalonia and who tried before the judge - before the judge - to justify non-existent citizen violence, accusing the citizenry of having faces of hatred, as if violence and hatred were on the part of those who received the blows, ultimately, from the victims, and not from those who gave them. It is also necessary to keep in mind the actions of the Attorney General's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because they may receive instructions from the Government on behalf of the public interest - article 8, paragraph 1, of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, take and read it to them. But it seems that the public interest of the Government has never been alienated from the truth of what is happening in Catalonia and the need to resolve the conflict politically and not through judicial and repressive means. If it remains in this area today, it is not because it is the responsibility of justice, but because the Government and this Parliament intend to maintain it in this area. It is an option, it is an option that does not resolve the conflict, but it is the option chosen by the Spanish Government. However, what they cannot do is lie or keep silent with their silence so that political prisoners and prisoners are condemned for violence that has not occurred. The Spanish Government should be honest, a quality that is much needed in these current times, and publicly acknowledge that there is no violence in Catalonia and that the independence movement is pacifist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. On behalf of the Government in office, I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Telechea, I would like to make an initial clarification. You might prefer to be answered by the Vice-President of the Government, and I respect your interest and your preference, but the Government of Spain answers you. I am a member of the Government of Spain, which is a collegiate body according to the Constitution and the Law of the Government and, therefore, all the members of the Government represent the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Apart from that, I must say that I am very proud of it, because it is a task for the President of the Government that I am very pleased with and also because I am very interested in the subjects of the public administration and the civil service. I am very interested in Catalonia, I love Spain and part of that love for Spain I also have for Catalonia, for many personal and family roots. Therefore, I am deeply hurt by what is happening there, but not by the meaning of the account you have expressed. The story you have produced is the account of the independent vision of what is happening in Catalonia. However, you have a problem, which is part of a problem that also arises in this society, which is not unique to you, which are successive monologues and virtual worlds where one lives in it with those who think as one, but do not think of others or dialogue with others. You don't have a problem with the rest of Spain, you don't have a problem with the rest of the world; you have a problem with the other Catalans, who don't think like you. That's his problem. This Government has tried from the beginning to do what was right and what was in its hands: to enforce the Constitution and the law. This very morning I indicated this while answering some questions that have been put to me in connection with the subject. We have been firm in this area because the Spanish Government has to be firm in law enforcement. But, you see, this firmness in law enforcement is not a taste, it is not a discretion; it is an obligation of any public administration, also of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which must comply and enforce the law in all cases. Therefore, compliance with the law is never an option, nor is compliance with the Constitution, nor is it for you, who are not a separate category since they are part of this country, which logically forms part of this Constitution and of this society. I therefore believe that there is a deviation from your thinking in relation to the true nature of the problem. I am not going to go into all the considerations that you have made in relation to the very serious, unfortunate facts that occurred in Catalonia in the months of September and October of 2017. They are being tried by the Supreme Court in a case whose development shows that this is a rule of law with guarantees, which works. Of course, everyone has the right to protect and defend their views, and that is where the relevant judgement will fall in its day and case, but it is being judged by facts, not opinions. You are not judging people who have simply expressed consideration as you have freely done in this Congress of Deputies, but you are judging very serious facts that occurred in the months of September and October of 2017 in Catalonia. Therefore, do not expect this Government, in any way, to consider those issues that it does not have to judge because we, of course, respect judicial independence and, in this case, it is up to the courts to judge it. But we have not limited ourselves to that, we have tried not only to enforce the Constitution and the law - and we are doing so - but also to have a communication to try to help the dialogue between Catalans work. The Socialist Party of Catalonia proposed a dialogue table in the Parliament of Catalonia - you did not respond to your request - to try in this way, with all the political parties, with the People's Party, with Citizens, with the Socialist Party of Catalonia, to give a way out of that lack of dialogue that existed and that exists in Catalonia. Since the Government of Spain, we have obviously undertaken initiatives that have been very important, such as the establishment and meeting of the Joint Commission between the State and the Generality, which did not meet since 2011, or the Joint Commission on Economic and Fiscal Affairs, the Security Board or all the bilateral and sectoral forums that have made us try to operate, as in sectoral conferences and advisory councils, on all the issues. This has therefore been an important issue. By the way, I am opening a small parenthesis here, a footnote: you have referred to a subject of the ministry which I have the honour to address, that of agriculture, fisheries and food, the subject of grapes; it is a subject which I am concerned about, of course, because it concerns all farmers. We are in an economy of supply and demand, but look at how we diverge in the readings of the topics, because there is a problem of organization of the sector, and you know why there is - among other reasons, I am not saying that it is the only one - because of its politicization, because even independence has gotten into the sector of the quarry. It is a matter that concerns me, also in the other direction, but I will have the opportunity to talk with the Councillor if, by the way, she is worthy of coming to the advisory councils that we hold every month preparing the Councils of European Ministers and working together with all the autonomous communities to carry out work for the future. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is what you should reflect on. I was saying this to Mrs Borràs a moment ago: I think it is very important that you make a reflection, a reflection on where you are and where you are going. Do not believe that everyone is against you, it is not true; everyone is not against you, but everyone cannot be with you, cannot be with those who violate the Constitution and the law, who want to despise Spain. Spain cannot be despised, Spain is a great country that unites us all and that gives reason to be - article 2 of the Constitution - to the existence of nationalities and regions and to their autonomy. This Government has made this very clear since the first day: this is the Government that will always defend the unity of Spain, which will never allow a referendum of self-determination to question it, but this is a Government that considers its obligation to political dialogue and tries to build bridges for an issue that affects an autonomous community as dear to all as Catalonia is and, above all, a problem of coexistence within Catalan society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u182	Thank you, President. Minister, with all due respect for your position and responsibility, would it seem normal for you to ask the Minister of Justice about the price of the grape? That'd be a little weird, wouldn't it? Leaving aside the issue of grapes, it is strange also that we, who are the ones asking for dialogue, who are asking to speak to the other side, are the problem and that the problem is among the Catalans. I don't know, the Socialist Party has members of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia who live in Catalonia, don't you communicate with each other? I don't know, it's a little strange, because it's another lie; that is, we're talking about the a lot of lies that you hold up. The Catalans have found a democratic method for resolving the conflict, which is a referendum; it is a democratic method, a referendum. You do not want to change the Constitution so that 80% of the Catalan population that asks to vote can do so, but you do change it when it suits you, so you do change it, not so that 80% of the Catalan population that asks to vote can do it, because that is for us to solve the conflict, voting as a democratic country, voting. [[applause]] But the problem is not between Catalans, the problem is between the State and Catalonia, it is of a State that does not allow us to vote in the 21st century. Minister, you should have been more honest and used this rostrum to acknowledge that the situation here in Catalonia is peaceful; or you do not know Catalonia or legitimize with your silence all this lie. We, Minister, want the independence of Catalonia, we want to build the republic. I mean, we're free because we say what we think, but we can't exercise it, so we're here; if we did, if I went to the Parliament of Catalonia tomorrow and declared independence, I'd go straight to jail. But you can say you want a federal state and try, right? Well? We will continue to fight and continue to defend Catalonia's independence because we want the Catalan Republic and we will not stop claiming it and fighting for it. But you cannot condemn our political prisoners in the name of future actions, you cannot condemn them by claiming that the people of Catalonia will do so again, nor can you condemn us as a warning, be democrats. Minister, you can legitimately defend the unity of Spain, but what you cannot do is twist reality or democracy to defend it. Far from that, you, with absolute lack of political and intellectual rigour, have come to turn an anecdote into a category and, moreover, from an absolutely partial point of view. Because yes, of course there is tension in Catalonia, of course there is, how can there not be if we have been beaten and imprisoned? How is there not going to be that tension? But it is a tension that on the part of Catalans does not translate into violence. Certainly, there have been extolls and reprehensible conducts on the part of some and on the part of others, and we have always condemned them; especially we condemn those violent conducts that come from independence because our movement has always been democratic and peaceful, and we affirm that intolerance and violence do not fit into it. However, you still do not condemn the aggressions that take place from the Unionist side. On the contrary, they are photographed after a Spanish flag with the ultras that defend and practice violence. And their media amplify the importance and magnitude of these isolated episodes, which we condemn, while silence those that occur from the unionist side. Please, Minister, Members of the Government, be honest and rigorous. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government in office, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Telechea, you have reiterated the arguments, as it could not be otherwise, and I want to say to you from the outset that there is no problem of independence in Catalonia, there is a problem of coexistence, there is a problem of coexistence, and you should assume that as such. I have told you how my style is, in a moderate way, but, at the same time, blunt, because, honestly, reality is what it is, even if one pretends to live in a virtual reality. You say that the democratic method is to vote, yes, of course, to vote within the Constitution and the laws, which are for that. Nor did the Venice Commission want to endorse its referendum of 1 October, and for one thing it would be, because, of course, it was outside the Constitution and outside of all the laws of Spain that we have given all the Spaniards and that cannot be changed outside the very rules that we have established in common. In addition, you refer to a category that is superior to the others. You say democracy is superior to everything else, and it is not true. Democracy is not superior to rules or institutions. Frans Timmermans, the Vice-President of the European Commission, recently recalled this and said it in a very clear way: Those who want to face democracy, fundamental principles and the rule of law are wrong. Each has its place and its play in the constitutional mechanism. But, honestly, this is not a legal debate, but a political debate and it is a political debate in which you should know how to see - honestly I tell you, and with all affection - where you are going because there are people who are going after you, but who are not the majority of Catalan society, and you should know which way you are going. The whole of Spanish society obviously does not think positively about what is happening in Catalonia and you are giving wings to many extremists throughout Spain. But they are scorning an immense part, a majority of Catalan society, and they are, of course, scorning those who represent the People's Party, Citizens and the PSC in Catalonia, who have the right to express their views and opinions. Or is it just yours that's worth it? Is only yours worth it? And I will tell you one thing: here we must keep calm, as always, in politics and in government action when we are in government and when we are in opposition. You should be calm and think about what is coming, the next day and how it is achieved; ultimately, give a way out to everything we have before us. We, of course, support the Government that preceded us in some very serious actions that it had to adopt and what it was in defence of - you see - the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. We saved the autonomy of Catalonia that you would have destroyed if you had continued along the path on which you were walking. Therefore, I sincerely ask you to have that capacity for reflection and to see if it leads somewhere that unilateral path that you have defined in independence. I tell you that there will always be a Government of Spain, which I hope will be a stable, strong and progressive Government in the next parliamentary term, which will be opened very soon, and that, of course, will be respecting the Constitution and the law, always trying to foster a dialogue between Catalans and the deepening of the State of autonomy defined in Article 2 of our Constitution. Because unity of Spain and autonomy of nationalities and regions are not antithetical terms, but what united us in the year 78 and has to continue to unite us towards the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Parliamentary Group VOX, on the measures which the Government of Spain is adopting and is going to adopt before the new GOLPIST OFFENSIVE, which has been announced in Catalonia by the President of the General Assembly with the collaboration of the Catalan institutions and judicial practitioners who participated in the perpetration of the Group of States in October 2017. [[File number 172/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u186	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government of Spain is taking and is going to take in the face of the new coup offensive announced in Catalonia by the President of the Generalitat with the collaboration of the Catalan institutions and the fugitives from justice who participated in the coup d'état in October 2017. For your defence, Mr. Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u187	Mr Sánchez's irresponsible narcissism has placed Spain in the face of a capricious electoral call at a time when the most important sentence of Spanish democracy will be handed down and at a time when the Catalan institutions are still in full rebellion. We have seen during these days how neither the popular front nor the progress consensus have been able to agree on how to divide the armchairs. Madam President, Mr. of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in September 2017, the coup d'état carried out by Catalan separatism suffered the hardest blow to date. The coupists had been denounced in a court in Barcelona and placed at court disposal for explicit surprise by the government of Mariano Rajoy, so they could be tried and we are sure that they will pay for their crimes, but it was not the prosecutor's office initially or the state's attorney with the impulse of the government of Mr Rajoy, but a handful of Spaniards gathered around VOX who got it, thanks to the judges who admitted those first complaints and only thus the coupists stopped feeling unpunished, because, if it is for you, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of Citizens, the justice would continue without action and today the coup process could have ended triumphantly. That is why, on the day before we heard the Supreme Court's ruling, I would like to recall who did it in those days to stop the coup, as I initially intended to ask the Government about its intentions. If for something was characterized the Rajoy government was for leaving office. Never had a government, first with an absolute majority and then without it, in Congress and in the Senate, been so weak in defending national unity. First, they wanted to placate the thugs by forgetting the teaching of Julián Marías who told us that he could not be content with those who did not want to be content. Then they tried to threaten them while negotiating with them in secret and, at the end, when they found their failure, they applied their 155; not article 155, but an article 155 decaffeinated and cowardly, made according to the couplists, a 155 that was not the one that VOX demanded for two years before, but the 155 of the People's Party, of the PSOE and of Citizens, that left intact all the structures of separatism and that have since been fed with the money of all the Spaniards. 155 of the failure, ladies and gentlemen, 155 of which the lords of Citizens participated, more concerned at the time for an electoral advance in Catalonia than for restoring constitutional order throughout the national territory. They won the election, but they did not rule, and I believe that in sin they carry penance. That's right, the bill for that recklessness we're all paying with the thug Torra, who's now threatening us again. From the current government party, I believe that all that is said is little, despite the kind and moderate rhetoric of the Minister of Agriculture. He dedicated himself to criticizing the actions of our security forces on the streets of Catalonia just as our agents were doing worse. Later, Mr. Sánchez, with the complicity of Pablo Iglesias, lacked time to talk in secret and seek the support of the same separatists who had given the coup d'état to arrive at the Palace of the Moncloa and today is the hostage - it seems that pleased - of those coup parties, to which we have seen him give so many congratulations during his speeches in Congress these weeks, coup parties that have in the PSOE their great hope for the triumph of their thesis. And we have also seen during these weeks how they begged the PSOE and We can please agree with you. Since Mr Sánchez's arrival at the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party, there has been no act of loyalty to the disloyals or act of disloyalty to the loyals to Spain that has not been committed, because it seems that the PSOE has a problem with the nation, despite that rhetoric of the Minister of Agriculture. Moreover, it seems that its history is on its way to consolidating itself with a history of contempt for the nation. They have just done so right now, disregarding the verdict of the ballot box and telling the Spaniards that they need to speak more clearly. Today the Spaniards know perfectly well that on those dates of infamy you all failed them. It was the Spanish on foot who went out on the street defending national unity, waving their flags and paying honors to the security forces. It was the Catalans on foot who occupied the streets of Catalonia at a time of violence, tension and threats. And it was his majesty the king who brought comfort and tranquillity to a Spain that lived in the cozobra, with that speech of October 3, never sufficiently weighted. [[Applauds]] And it was, ladies and gentlemen, the popular action of VOX, first, and the State Attorney General, Don José Manuel Maza, then, who managed to sit on the bench to beat the coup to respond to the crimes they had committed. Gentlemen of the Government, today Torra and his followers threaten the Spanish institutions and society with new acts of violence, and they do so in an unpunished and systematic manner. Tora calls on the CDRs to tighten up in order to give effect to the Catalan Republic. Torra poses the Slovenian way, a violent way, because there is no longer possible backtracking. And Torra said a few weeks ago: We will do it again, of course we will. Since the 11th of September, riots have returned to the streets and threats from the institutions, which remain in the hands of the coup-makers. We warn him with the protogolpist Arthur Mas - against whom we also complain - we warn him with the renegade Puigdemont, and today he is escaped because the government was not diligent. They didn't listen to us. We warn you again now, in the face of this continuation of the coup and perhaps not on that occasion, but on this occasion there is no doubt that you are responsible for this permanent challenge to the rule of law. But that yes, there are two things that make the situation of these days different from that of 2017. The first - I have to say with sadness - is that we are worse, because this government treats well all those who attack Spain and mistreats those who defend it. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia, there are hopes of impunity for the disloyals and coups; it is agreed with the PNV - the party of supremacism on all grounds - to give privileges to some regions over others; even in Navarra, the government is reached and comes to power thanks to ETA's leadership. And meanwhile, our soldiers - who have been loyal to Spain and have played their lives abroad - are expelled from the Armed Forces, forty-five years old, with a pay of 600 euros, which is much less than many of those who assault our borders, attacking our civilian guards with acid, receive from the institutions, civilian guards who also receive much less than those received by the autonomous police and local police, by the way. [[applause]] You have our most loyal servers abandoned to your fate. Talk to them, ask them; we do it every day. Gentlemen of the Government, how will the Government protect our security forces in Catalonia if they look at them with suspicion and protect those who attack them? How will the government respond to a threat when Mr Sánchez has arrived in Moncloa at the hands of those who blackmail and threaten? How will the Government defend the unity of Spain if it arrives at the Government of Navarre supported by the proud heirs of ETA? How will the government defend constitutional legality if it has to do so in order to remain in Moncloa on the basis of those who defy the Constitution and those who want to destroy it? Can you answer that? What do you expect, an absolute majority? The second difference compared to 2017 - this one will like less - is the presence of VOX in this House. That means they're gonna have us in front of them. They have had us in this short legislature and they will have us in front of them in the next legislature to force those who govern to fulfil their constitutional mandate. Today the President of the Government - and then we have listened to the minister of agriculture in office - has said that he will apply the Constitution if there is a challenge. And he's lying, because there is. We have seen the explicit, repeated, systematic and unacceptable threats of the coup player who is sitting today in the Presidency of the Generality, and the Government does absolutely nothing, looking elsewhere, rhetorical. [[applause]] What are you waiting for to start the proceedings of the suspension of autonomy in Catalonia to restore the constitutional order, to stop the coups, to dissolve the Mossos and to take control of TV3 and stop spreading hatred? What are you waiting for to push once and for all the illegalization of the political criminal organizations that contributed to the coup and that are sitting in this House today? Or is it all free for some? Do you know what's wrong with them? That yesterday - that's the big problem and that's the positive part - nobody told them this in the rostrum. Today we are told twenty-four deputies of VOX and tomorrow we will tell you many more, because the Spaniards will speak clearly, as the president of the government has demanded with contempt, in defense of freedom; they will do so in defense of the validity of the Constitution, of the national coexistence and of the unity of Spain. And of all that you have become enemies by force of fact. Minister, I could have answered this question - and I must agree here with the previous speakers - the President of the Government; the Vice-President could have done so, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, could have done so, even the Minister of Industry, to tell us about the companies that left Catalonia. I say this with all the institutional respect to the Minister - and I know you have the right to do so, but they have elected the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in office - and with all the personal respect to Mr Planas, they have done so to lower this question of VOX, but in doing so your Government also reduces it to you, no matter how honored it is that you have been entrusted, and what is worse, we believe that your Government is reducing and devaluing the importance of what is happening in Catalonia. They send us to the Minister of Agriculture when we ask them for a coup d'état in a solemn declaration that the unity of Spain matters to them a pepper. [[Applauds]] Mr Planas - I also say this with respect - you could save yourself the trouble of coming up to this rostrum for a great deal of honor that you invoke. We will not live it as added contempt. For our part, if it were legally possible, that we know it's not...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u188	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u189	...even this interpellation would be withdrawn. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u190	The Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, acting on behalf of the Government in office, then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u191	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Abascal, please don't apologize for the things you have said about my presence in this rostrum at all; you don't have to. What surprises me is that your arguments are parallel to those of independence, that you use an argument that is the one used a moment ago by the independenceists. I think you guys are somehow refueling. You have had some electoral success thanks precisely to many people who have maintained a radical position of breaking the Constitution and law in Spain. In reply, Madam President, to the question I am being asked - because whenever a question or an inquiry is raised, it is answered and cannot be given without an answer; you have done so and certainly deserve an answer - the 1978 Constitution is very clear: it obliges the Government not only to comply with the Constitution and the law, but also to enforce it for all citizens, and this also means protecting the exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms enjoyed by all the citizens of this country, who think as one or who does not think as one, because what I have heard at the end of your speech is that you would like those who do not think as you do not have the right to speak if you express a position that you do not agree with, and I can honestly say that this is not the content of our Constitution. You read it very partially on many points; you read it very partially, again, in article 2, which enshrines the unity of the Spanish nation, but also enshrines the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions, as the additional provision does with the outlying historical rights. Therefore, you will have to respect all of this and you will have to respect, of course, Article 14 and the principle of equality between women and men, which you do not respect. [[Applauds]] Or you will have to respect the rules that we have established for most of the parties in this House in the fight against gender-based violence. Do you respect that, too? Why do they question it? That, for a society like the Spanish one right now, seems to me to be very important. Mr. Abascal, I also say this with the utmost respect, because I am a respectful person even with whom I do not think, and I like to say so openly. Do you know what's going on? That you have a tufillo to the Spain of the NODO; you see the Constitution as a forced thing and fill with proclamations of respect for the law and the Constitution. No, look, this doesn't work that way. You, in the end, have again made an invocation of what is happening in Catalonia and of the application of the Constitution and the law. I'm gonna say one thing. The Socialist Party and this government have done what they have to do and are doing it right now. And I'm going to give you three examples. The first, in relation to the Spanish Flags and Symbols Act. In those places where a city council does not display itself in accordance with the law, this Government intervenes the corresponding actions in order to do so. Also in relation to the neutrality of public buildings and the display of symbols that can be acceptable, obviously, in the private field, but certainly not there. Or when an attempt is made in an external action, outside the territory of Spain, to tarnish Spain's reputation by saying things about the functioning of our society, our rule of law, our courts, the government and the whole of this Parliament that are not acceptable. In that, this Government is absolutely firm. But as I had the opportunity to say this morning in relation to the answer to another parliamentary question when you invoked Article 155, I believe that we are faced with something not only of an exceptional nature, but also that, in addition, who applied it, the previous Government, reasonably had many doubts about the content of that application and we, the Socialists, were there, in what had to be done, as had to be done and marking the possibilities and limits of that action. Mr Abascal, this is a constitutional government that complies with the law and enforces it, and as much as you say, in a speech that reminds me of the tone that you have preceded in the previous inquiry - forgive me if I may say so, it is not an offence, just the tone - I think that is not what our country needs. You confess patriot, I am, too; we are all members of this House. There's nothing more or less, we all are. But in the defence of the Constitution, in the defence of the law we all have to adjust to the possibilities and limits, to the ability to express our ideas but also to the capacity of the actions of the Government. And I believe, respecting your point of view - which I do not share, as you can imagine, at all - that that is the way, the way of firmness but also the way of moderation and of the future. Because this country, Spain, which we so much want, makes sense only in that path of firmness, moderation and future in which the President of the Government is present, who has tried to reach an agreement with other parliamentary forces so that, in fact, we could continue to work, but it has not been so, because United Podemos, the People's Party and Citizens have not wanted it, and that he will continue to work for the future of Spanish society and for preventing old ideas, again, from having a more significant role in our society. I want to say quite clearly that forty years of the Constitution are few, but to hear ideas from this rostrum that in many cases seem pre-constitutional to me, sincerely, as a Democrat hurts me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Let me repeat what you have indicated. I do not wish to continue this debate with the Minister for Agriculture. We believe that his Government has not reduced VOX, even though it intended to do so, but has reduced the importance of what is happening in Catalonia and has even reduced the importance of agriculture, fisheries and food; it is used as a resource to devalue other matters - what is happening in Catalonia - to devalue VOX and to devalue its representation of 2,700,000 people, but in doing so they have also devalued Mr Planas. Mr Planas will be asked with great pleasure and in the same tone when we want to ask him why our field has been abandoned, why our agriculture has been dismantled and why our producers are forced to compete with non-Community products produced with slave labour. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u194	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government in office, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u195	On what you said, when I was asked by your group on this issue - the other day I already did it in the Commission - I would be happy to explain how much you want to ask me about this matter. Frankly, listening to your previous speech - this one too, although a little less - I believe that this morning you have been complementary, Madam President. There have been two interpellations, but two interpellations that are somehow feedback to each other. You have been very lucky, because you have found in independence a reason to try to capture a squid of votes from many Spaniards confused with what was happening in Catalonia. With this Government there will be no confusion, no confusion in the dialogue and, at the same time, no confusion in the firmness. Look - I was thinking a moment ago while I was listening to him - here in this House there are many political parties and many groups, but there is only one group that carries the word Spain in its acronyms, and it is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, a party and a government to which I am proud to belong. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-18-CD190918.u196	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the agenda, which is expected to have been the last plenary session of the legislature. Twenty weeks ago, we were chosen to represent the Spaniards and turn their hopes and illusions into political realities. We have not succeeded and in a few days we will be accountable to the citizens. We will ask them again for their support and they will decide who will take up these seats again. First of all, I wish those who feel in them the best of luck in fulfilling their responsibilities. I would also like to express our gratitude - that of all of us and all of us - to the workers of Congress, to the members of the security forces, to the informants and to all who are working here to make the work of everyone possible and useful. And also my staff to all of you, for allowing me the honour of presiding over these meetings and for your cooperation in the successful completion of this task, especially the members of the Bureau and the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups. Finally, I apologize to everyone for the mistakes that we have been able to make and, personally, for which this President has made. People can be wrong, we can also get tired and even fail, but democracy is wiser, more constant and stronger than people. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, applause is on the table.]] The meeting rose. It was twelve and ten minutes from noon. Error correction. The following file numbers should be included in the 11th Session Journal for the plenary session held on Tuesday, 17 September 2019, on page 2 at the point of institutional declarations, and on pages 75 and 76: Institutional statement of support from the Congress of Deputies for the installation of the 30-metre telescope in La Palma. [[TMT]] [[File number 140/000002]] Institutional declaration of solidarity with all persons affected by the depression isolated at high levels or cold drop in the Spanish Levante and of recognition of the work carried out by those who have participated in emergency arrangements in the affected areas. [[DAMAGE]] [[File number 140/000003]]
