ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. We begin with item 1 of the agenda, on the debate on the full proposal of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands for the reform of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February 2007 on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, for the abolition of the suffocation of Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and Members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the whole House. You're welcome. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor first of all Mr Juan Manual Lafuente Mir of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u2	Good afternoon, Madam President; good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For a Member of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands it is an honour and a responsibility to appear here today, in the Congress of Deputies, and to do so on behalf and on behalf of the whole of the Autonomous House to defend a modification of our status of autonomy in the matter of the suppression of members and members of the Community Government. That is why we have reached a unanimous agreement of the Balearic Parliament at the plenary session on 13 November last year, which agreed on this statutory procedure, so that it should continue to be dealt with in the General Courts as an organic law. As you all know, strangulation is an alteration of the rules of functional and territorial objective competence to determine the court that must judge a person. Our legal system provides for different types of settlement: that established in article 71.3 of the Spanish Constitution for the case of deputies and senators; that established in article 102 for the case of members of the Government of Spain; those established in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, and those established in the Organic Law of Security Forces and Bodies. But they also establish the different statutes of autonomy. When the autonomous State was developed through the adoption of these statutes, all the autonomous communities and in a manner similar to that established in the Constitution for the members of the Courts and the Government, from the first bylaws to the last, established the stumbling block for the autonomous parliamentarians and the Government. There was no community that at the time did not introduce into their respective statutes the figures of the stumbling block. Perhaps it would have seemed that the importance of their deputies or members of the government was being reduced, and that was not the case. The need to protect public representatives in their duties, to avoid the political instrumentalization of justice, to ensure the inviolability of opinions and demonstrations has been defended, but the reality is that Spain, among the different types of strike, is one of the countries with the largest number of people in the race, and it is not precisely the political positions that represent the most numerous, though surely the most controversial, collective. In recent times, there has been a trend towards the abolition of special measures, and we have seen this with amendments or proposals for amendments to the statutes in this regard, such as those of Cantabria, Murcia, La Rioja, Madrid and now the Balearic Islands, by a unanimous agreement of your Parliament. A global and coordinated analysis of the form of drilling would certainly be positive, but for the reasons set out above and for the progressive reduction of drilling, the causes are also diverse. It is usually written in order to ask for the suppression of the sufferings their excessive number, the misuse of the same, because it is a measure of transparency or because it is perceived by the citizenry as a privilege that increases the disaffection of the citizenry towards the political parties. In addition to the above reasons, which are important and weighty, we consider that there are other arguments which are also fundamental to the reduction or elimination of strangulations, and it is precisely the defence of constitutional values, not only by the application of article 14 of the Constitution - 'Spanish people are equal before the law, without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance'. That is, the fewer exceptions to privileges, the better - but it is also worth recalling another of the great constitutional values, which is the one set out in article 23: 'Citizens have the right to participate in public affairs directly or through representatives, freely elected in periodic elections by universal suffrage'. In other words, the political class does not exist constitutionally, we all have the right to participate in public affairs. And, on the other hand, article 24.2 of the Constitution reads: '... everyone has the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law...'. The judge is the guarantee of the process for all, including those with political responsibilities. We therefore believe that the principles such as equality, of article 14; participation in public affairs worldwide, of article 23, or that of the right to a predetermined and independent ordinary judge, of article 24, provide us with a basis for moving also towards the substantial and balanced reduction of suffering, as we advocate in this initiative. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to appeal not only to the exercise of the power of self-regulation of the institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands to call for the abolition of the embargoes, but also to the fundamental constitutional values to call on the House to continue the process of amending the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, which has enjoyed the unanimous support of the entire Balearic Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to Mr Vicenç Thomàs Mulet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are here to defend the proposal for a law to abolish the embargoes and to amend the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, a legislative initiative based on a text agreed by all the parliamentary groups, signed individually by all its Members and voted affirmatively, facts that politically reinforce this initiative. You already know that, but it must be remembered: severance consists of a prerogative by which the objective competence is attributed to deal with a matter in an exceptional way to a higher court. It is not a subjective right, but a guarantee linked to the position and, by extension, to the organization or power to which it belongs, and thus a special forum is established in a higher court. We are talking about the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court or the higher courts of the Autonomous Communities. They also know that the Spanish Constitution provides in article 56 that it is impossible to prosecute the monarch for any criminal act, that article 71 creates the figure of the hanging for deputies and senators, and in 102 it is agreed that the hanging of the president and the members of the government. They also know that the Organic Law on the Judiciary gives judges, prosecutors, judges of the Constitutional Court and of the Accounts, the members of the Judiciary and also the members of the Council of State and the Ombudsman this prerogative. It is estimated that about 200,000 people are being held up in our country, because it is also necessary to include members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, a circumstance that has nothing to do with the situation of other European countries and the world, either without being held up or only a few people are being held up. When the different autonomy statutes of the autonomous communities were drafted, they included three prerogatives: immunity, inviolability and stifling. Our legislative initiative only contemplates suffocation. Today in our autonomous community there are sixty-eight politicians, fifty-nine deputies and nine members of the Government who are not deputies. Our suppression of the elections affects Members of Parliament, the President of the Government and the members of the Government, in accordance with Articles 44, 56 and 57 of the Statute of Autonomy. The question is why we have so many people in our country. It has been said that this epidemic of people caught up is the result, among other things, of a country, of politicians, of judges who during the period of political transition had certain fears and weaknesses, and this uncertainty degenerated into a protection mechanism. Other motivations have obviously also been raised: to avoid political pressure on an ordinary court, which a higher court is more independent and competent, than if there are courts influenced by having judges who owe their promotion to the political representatives who have appointed them, and other reasons. Yes, we propose to abolish the stalemate because we share that stalemate is a procedural privilege that violates the principle of equality in law enforcement, equality of all against the law. It is an unnecessary and possibly unconstitutional procedural privilege because it is not in the Constitution, and there are also many legal voices that argue that we may be violating the principle enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution. Our deputies and members of the Government have the right to a fair trial, but they do not need to seek a special judge, such as the Supreme Court or the courts of justice of the autonomous communities. Currently in our country there is a strong social and political awareness about the abuses of an unjustified criminal procedural protection of power in Spain that marks the way, also induced by the scourge of political corruption that has occupied broad areas of state policy and also in our autonomous community. All the political representation of the Balearic Islands through its deputies approved the abolition of its outbursts and those of the members of the Government by amending the statute of autonomy, a procedural privilege that violates the principle of equality. Abolishing it is also a commitment to transparency and democratic regeneration, it is a commitment of all political formations, and that is why we approve and bring to Congress today a consensus, coherent, reasoned and realistic proposal, a good proposal. Now you, ladies and gentlemen, have the last word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Nel Martí Llufriu of the Més per Menorca Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Menorca. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands is set out in article 44 of its organic law that Members of Parliament shall enjoy, in addition to inviolability and immunity, the prerogative of severance, so - and I read it in text - it shall be for the High Court of Justice of the Balearic Islands or, where appropriate, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court to decide their indictment, imprisonment, prosecution and trial. In Articles 56 and 57 this same prerogative is extended to the Presidency and members of the Government. The decision to include settlement in the 1983 statutory text and its subsequent amendment in 2007 did not, in either case, generate any social debate beyond legal circles. In fact, in the Journal of Sessions of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands or of the Congress of Deputies you will find too many references or too many discrepancies in this regard, not to say that they are practically non-existent. The suffocation was until recently an unquestioned prerogative that the Spanish Constitution of 1978 introduced and transferred to the new political era and that was immediately assumed as a necessary figure to guarantee and protect the activity of certain political and non-political positions within the structure of the State. That is why, since 1978, the respective statutes of autonomy - one by one - have been incorporated into the statute of deputies and members of the government together with immunity and inviolability. It was also done by imitation of the organic laws of the judiciary and the security forces and bodies. The result is that some 2000 politicians, more than 8000 judicial officials and more than 230 000 security forces and bodies are involved in Spain. In total, more than 250,000 people were killed. This is a barbarity, it is a scandal, there are no precedents either in Europe or in the world and the closest ones are known to all: In Germany and in the United States there is no foreclosure; in Italy and Portugal there is only the President of the Republic or in France there are between ten and sixteen foreclosures, between the President of the Republic and the President and members of the Government. The prerogative before the courts has been preserved in Spain until today with the interpretation that it was used to protect the performance of public offices and to avoid interference between the legislature and the judiciary, understanding that more guarantees would be offered in the higher courts of justice or in the Supreme Court. It's not like that. But perception has changed radically and what it had to serve to strengthen public activity today weakens and discredits it. Today, strangulation is no longer seen as a necessary prerogative but as an anachronistic and unnecessary privilege. I would even say that it is also unfair and subject to debate. I say unfair because it is clear that it is contrary to the principle of equality that should govern modern democracies and I would say that it is even of dubious constitutionality. I would also say that it is harmful because it is perceived as a privilege for citizens, because it does not help to restore the confidence of citizens in institutions and their political representatives and because it is an obstacle to combating corruption. The proposal that we bring to the General Courts today to amend the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands in order to abolish the status of Members and Members of the Government has, as has already been said, been promoted and unanimously adopted by the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. Its scope is limited, it is confined to the sphere of regulation and it is the competence of the statute of autonomy: the fifty-nine deputies and the members of the Government. But it is a proposal that joins the voices of other autonomous communities that have changed or are changing their statutes to do the same: suppressing the stifling of their competence. It will then be up to the General Courts to do the rest, to amend the Constitution and the sectoral organic laws necessary to extend this abolition or limitation to the rest of the fields. I would also like to point out with regard to other statutory amendments that the reform proposed by the Illes Balears Parliament includes as a novelty the abolition of civil liability, i.e. civil procedural enforcement. In short, since Més per Menorca we consider and defend that today there is no reason to maintain this procedural figure and, instead, there are many reasons to abolish it: among other things, respect above all the democratic principle of equality and exercise our commitment to work to regain the confidence of citizens. For all these reasons, today we ask you to support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u7	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma. Mr Xuclà has arrived and will speak after Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome to the Congress of Deputies, representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] We are going to vote in favour of this initiative coming from the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. We understand that the sovereignty of the citizens of the Balearic Islands rests with your Parliament, which is why it is up to us to respect it. The Balearic Islands are part, together with the Valencià i Catalunya Nord, of the so-called Catalan Countries, and we are at the service of the parliaments of these territories. Having said that, one might ask what was the purpose of the arrest of the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell. What's it been for you? You're welcome. [[Applauds]] She is being tried in the Supreme Court. What did the Catalan government vice president, Oriol Junqueras, do for? It didn't do him any good. Moreover, we will check in a few days that they will receive sentences that will not be exemplary but will be vengeful, with the sole claim to scarment the citizens of Catalonia. I say this because, agreeing to do much more functional and just everything that has to do with the equality of all citizens before the law, which is why we are in favour of this initiative, and maintaining a strong and radical position towards overcoming a figure as far away from modernity as it is suffocation, I also believe that we are obliged to have a somewhat constructive vision. For example, it is true that those who stop being beaten but have a democratic mandate must also be worthy of a very agile justice, it is not going to be that a slow justice ends up conditioning what they have as their priority obligation, which is to represent the citizens in those democratic bodies to which they have acceded through the ballot box. It is also true that this debate should include some anomalies. It is an anomaly that there are 232,000 people in the state security forces and bodies. It doesn't make any sense that the royal family is stuck. And it should clearly also not make sense for judges, prosecutors and magistrates to be caught up. I mean, what's not good for one shouldn't be good for the other. So we understand that this debate cannot be dealt with in part or in a standstill. We shall therefore vote in favour. This is our position out of respect for the sovereignty of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and because it also coincides with the positions of the Republican Left. We understand that some anomalies must also be eliminated, and I believe that the most paradigmatic is the anomaly that represents that the head of State, even the head of the former State, the abdicated king, maintains the stumbling block. An example must be given, and it has no meaning, that the vertex of the State, the head of State, does not conform to those reasons which, for modernity and for equitable justice, correspond to the rights and obligations of citizens before the law. It's our pretense. So let us face up to a rationalization and modernization of what is contemplated today in this demand, but without hiding - dear God! - the miserable hypocrisy of thinking that some have to maintain privileges, starting with the royal family. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u9	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to welcome this debate to take into consideration the delegation of members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands on this hour of the day when the Catalan spoken in the islands has one of those most beautiful words at a low time, and then I will pass his translation, if possible, to the stenographers. Welcome to this Parliament in this final straight, in this discount time of the legislature. You raise a point of view and we will vote in favour of it for respect for the capacity for self-government, the deep capacity for self-government that each of the autonomous parliaments has. Then I will give a brief reflection on the substance of the matter and on the opinion that the Democratic Party has been holding on the havoc. If you, the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, the Autonomous Parliament of the Balearic Islands propose this initiative and there is a majority to transfer it to the General Courts, we must respect and vote in favour of taking account of your self-government. A few weeks ago, in these General Courts something never happened; never did. The autonomous status of the Canary Islands was amended by changing its electoral system against what the majority of the Canarian Parliament proposed. This is a barbaric expression of altering the rules of play and tension between the two legitimacys: the legitimacy of Congress and the Senate and the proposal, the capacity to propose an electoral system, something that obviously ends up having an impact on the formation of majorities and on the representation of territories and citizens in the Canary Islands. Returning to the object of this consideration, I want to move, as we have been saying in other very similar debates, that with the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia some justice parties - Citizens is a justice party, who thinks that it has come here because the world began in 2015, when they arrived, but here there is a tradition of dialogue, of approaches and of consensus - posed that they had to overcome the outbursts. For us, for the Democratic Party, drilling is neither a privilege nor a personal protection to a deputy; that drilling is a protection to the composition of the Chambers and the historical origin of drilling is clearly informed by the fact that the judges did not attempt to alter the composition of a Chamber with unfounded and unproven charges. At the beginning of parliamentary life the lifting of a strike was put to a vote by the House. In many autonomous parliaments - this is the case with the Catalonian Parliament - there is no debate in plenary. In this legislature we have had a debate in plenary session on the stifling of our list leader and comrade Francesc Homs, a debate of political opportunity and with the political burden that the accusations had, which led to the shameful disqualification of our leader, Mr Francesc Homs. We will always remember that this Congress was manifested with ninety-one votes against - ninety-one members of this House - of the lifting of an accusation that had a deep political burden linked to the 9 November 2014 in Catalonia. With this, strangulations are not a privilege - as some people say in their mouths - and more in discount times and in election time. This is our point of view and it is honest to move it from this rostrum. If this initiative is dealt with in this legislature - or whenever it comes - it would be good to incorporate this consideration. I also agree with Mr Tardà that, when dealing with the cases of the embargoes, no one talks about the embargoes, which there are thousands of them, of members of the Forces and Corpses de Seguridad del Estado and of the Judiciary. If the focus is so high and with a presumption of guilt on the elected, on the parliamentarians, we should also ask ourselves who and why is protected with strenuous force in the fields of justice, the security forces and bodies and, why not?, also by the perimeter and the extension of this protection in the field of the royal family. Madam President, as a good tradition, I am not going to run out of time: I have one and a half minutes left, but this will lighten the long sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u11	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u12	Thank you, President. To begin with, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Parliament to the ballar. Ladies and gentlemen, when Citizens arrived in this Parliament, they carried a very prominent flag, that of regeneration. This happened for many reasons, but mainly because corruption and political parties continually appeared among the citizens' greatest concerns in the CIS, in the CIS a.T., before Tezanos I mean. The concern of the citizens was justified by the evidence of widespread corruption, but also by the obvious suspicions of possible political interference in the judiciary. The reasoning was logical: if politicians, through the General Council of the Judiciary, influence the appointment of certain judges and those judges are the ones who are going to have to judge the corrupt, it is normal for a certain suspicion to arise. That is why the combination of corruption and political colonization of the judiciary contributes to the disaffection of citizens towards politicians, which in turn is a breeding ground suitable for populism. Therefore, in Citizens we were clear that if we wanted to regenerate, if we wanted to end the distrust of citizens, we had to end the two sides of this wicked mechanism: on the one hand, we had to eliminate any temptation to interfere in justice and, on the other, we had to stop the obscene spectacle of politicians by appointing the judges who can judge those politicians, as Mr Gallardón said when he was appointed Minister of Justice of the PP. Shortly after these words you all agreed to the distribution of the General Council of the Judiciary. And a few weeks ago, last November, there was again the distribution, which included PP, PSOE, nationalists and Podemos, which was supposed to be regenerating. Let us remember that the wasap scandal of the PP spokesman in the Senate where he presumed to control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind - room, by the way, in charge of judging corruption cases - forced the PP to break his agreement with the other parties and to support the Citizens' proposal in the Senate. It was useless because when the text returned to Congress again it was knocked down by the PSOE, the nationalists and once again Podemos; that's what there is. I insist, the decolonization of the judiciary is one of the facets of regeneration and the other is the one that the representatives of the Parliament are bringing us today: the suppression of the outbursts. As has been said, this original purpose was reasonable because it was intended to prevent the work of politicians from being burdened by spurious manoeuvres, but there is a broad consensus that the current lack of meaning and legal basis for the havoc is lacking. In fact, Spain is one of the few countries that maintain this privilege up to this level. As far as we Citizens are concerned, we have carried it from the outset, as I say, in our programme, in measures 28.2 and 28.3: we will abolish the outbursts and supplications of Members and Senators and elected officials. We also carried him in the investiture pact with the People's Party. By the way, Mr Tardà, you misunderstand with no subjection to justice and that is why you are shocked that the subjection has not served Mrs Forcadell anything. It is a strange confusion but you can see that today you do not have a good day because you have also told us about a mythological animal that are the Balearic Countries, that I do not know very well what it is. [[Applauds]] As I said, the proposal to reform the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands eliminates the current situation, the referral of the autonomous deputies, the President of Parliament and the members of the autonomous executive or the High Court of Justice of the Balearic Islands or, where appropriate, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court and returns to the general system of the Spanish Constitution: everyone has the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law. Because, ladies and gentlemen, one of the problems of severance is the failure of the principle of equality, but also the alteration in the rules of jurisdiction for the assignment of courts established by Article 24.2. As has been said, this initiative was presented and adopted unanimously by the autonomous Members of Parliament. We can't agree with her any more. We subscribe to everything that Parliament has said, and we will vote enthusiastically in favour of our representative, Mr Pericay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Today we come to reform or consider the reform of the Statut d'autonomie of the Balearic Islands because we want to advance in history. This vote is more than a statutory reform, it is the end point of an era of barbarism that the autonomous community experienced. The term may seem exaggerated, but the truth is that, if we remember the looting to which the People's Party and United Majorquina submitted in previous legislatures to the autonomous community, we also did not get far away. The right-wings transformed Baleares - and let me be the theatrical simile - from being an island paradise to a pirate thief; we even had the dubious honor of being the autonomous community than the greater number of accused for corruption per inhabitant, and this could perfectly explain the nothing honorable expression, Mr. Jaume Matas, from his prison cell in Aranjuez. Let me make a little history and let us go to when the journey of the autonomous community began. In the eighties another nothing honorable president of the community, Mr Gabriel Cañellas, also worthy representative of the People's Party, contracted the execution of which was to be the most important public work of Balearics of the last thirty years, the Sóller tunnel. It was the most expensive and insecure tunnel in Europe and, in addition, ended up naming a corruption case, the Sóller Tunnel case. What happened in the Sóller Tunnel case? The politicians were finally acquitted by statute of limitations of the crimes but, yes, there was some consequence: the defence lawyer of whom he had then been president of the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands was appointed judge of the High Court of Justice of the Balearic Islands. That is why the debate that we have today is important, to the point that in the toponymy of Balearics it is often necessary to explain that Son Espases is a hospital, but it is also a case of corruption; or that the local police of Palma is a police force, but it is also a case of corruption in which is precisely the last outburst that is clinging to this privilege - I am sorry, Mr Xuclà, I differ from you - by being investigated on very serious matters that quietly consented to the one who is now again a candidate of the People's Party to be mayor of Palma, Mr Mateu Isern. By the way, there was talk of paying favors in services in puticlubs and cocaine; and that is that in that of paying with public money puticlubs and cocaine you are absolutely pioneers. [[Applauds]] Faced with this black history of the People's Party in the Balearic Islands, we have a cosmopolitan society, an advanced society that demands to be a vanguard on many issues: democratic regeneration, combating climate change, feminism, diversity, ecology or public services. But, although we have somehow managed to overcome what happened during that period of looting to which two political forces submitted to us in previous legislatures, the truth is that Baleares needs more. Baleares has spent twenty years being the third per capita income per capita community in the state to be the seventh and we are very close to being included in the package of those below the state average. The island territories have special treatment throughout the European Union and this is also the case in the Constitution. Article 138.1, which has recently been discovered by the People's Party, provides that the fact of the island is taken into account in determining the contribution of a particular community to the Inter-Territorial Solidarity Fund. I have already had the opportunity to ask the Vice-President of the Government to take into account the content of article 138.1. [[Rumors]] The truth is that the Balearic Islands have been systematically ignored in their claim to have fair funding, to the point that in recent years we have been systematically underfunded and that means that we pay the extra insularity that means that the inhabitants and companies based in the Balearic Islands are treated differently and worse than those located in other areas of the national territory. That is why we in the Balearic Islands have been calling for decades for a special regime to be put in place that will precisely compensate for the disadvantages of insularity not only in terms of transport and mobility, but in general to facilitate the economic progress of a territory which, because of its island character, has very special characteristics. [[Rumors]] It is true that during this legislature both the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the Government of Pedro Sánchez have been negotiating with the Government and have advanced a job that would be a tragedy to lose. Indeed, we are on a discount time in this legislature, but I still believe that there is the possibility that this Parliament will be able to fulfil the promise... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u15	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u16	... that just ten days ago the Vice-President of the Government did at an event in Inca, Mallorca, where she said the approval of the special regime of the Balearic Islands would be imminent. For we are in a time of imminence, we are in a time of urgency, we are in a time of last opportunity and the Government has an unbeatable opportunity to approve the special regime in the Balearic Islands, not simply because of a funding issue, but because to continue to regenerate democracy in the Balearic Islands it is absolutely necessary to have good funding. If there has been a paradigm shift in the Balearic Islands, it has been for the good work that has been done by the Government in implementing the agreements made by the Government at the beginning of the legislature. I am not going to extend, I am not going to be exhaustive, but some of the laws that have been passed in this legislature in the Parliament of Balearics have deserved for their pioneering character not only in the state but throughout Europe the applause and international admiration of means as highly solvent as may be the New York Times or the Washington Post. I am referring to the recently passed Climate Change and Energy Transition of the Balearic Islands Act. Therefore, we demand only what we have been demanding for a long time, and that Balearics can continue to progress and remain an advanced, cutting-edge, cutting-edge, cosmopolitan society that can give lessons on many issues; in human rights, by adopting the Balearic Housing Law, in ecology, with an avant-garde law such as the Waste Law, or in democratic regeneration, with this statutory reform that we are asking to eliminate political outbursts. For this reason, it is clear that they have our vote in favour, it could not be otherwise. We are represented in the Balearic Parliament and we ask all the groups in this House to actually vote on this proposal which our representatives in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands have brought. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone, but let me especially greet the Members of Parliament who are accompanying us this afternoon in the rostrum and also other fellow whalers who are accompanying us; be welcome to this home. It is certainly an honour for me to be able to defend from this rostrum the proposal to reform the status of the Balearic Islands for the abolition of the embargoes, which has been unanimously adopted since the Balearic Parliament. The Balearic Islands thus joins other autonomous parliaments, such as Cantabria, Murcia or the Canary Islands, which have already initiated or processed statutory reforms in this regard, but I can assure you that for us this reform has a very special meaning, because unfortunately our community has been devastated by what the People's Party has come to call the axis of prosperity and that, together with Valencia and Madrid, it has become a devastating axis of corruption, which left behind a string of criminal practices and debts that today we continue to pay the citizens of the Balearic Islands. Understand that some when we hear about the economic miracle of the People's Party we start to tremble. The government of the popular Matas not only robbed the citizens of the Balearic Islands and degraded our institutional and political life, but unfortunately linked the name of our community to the first positions of the shameful ranking of corruption. Hence the special significance and need for an initiative of this nature in the Balearic Islands, a community that needed to bet openly on political regeneration and to pass the page of the laudation in which successive governments of the People's Party joined us and to place our islands on the national and international map for pioneering policies in the protection of people, in the extension of rights and in the protection of our vulnerable territory, which in turn is our main wealth and source of income. That is what the current progressive Government has done with some initiatives, such as the Plan to combat job insecurity, guaranteed social income or the Climate Change Act. And in this line of restoring confidence in politics and the imperative need for democratic regeneration, this proposal for the reform of our statute for the abolition of the outbursts of Members of Parliament and members of the Government, which, as I have already said, is in line with other proposals made by other autonomous parliaments, is also moving forward. And although it will not give time in this legislature to complete all its proceedings, we do want the Socialist Parliamentary Group to set our favourable position. We must remember here and distinguish between those who are born out of our own Constitution and those who, later and by extension, were adopted through the statutes of autonomy for parliamentarians and members of autonomous governments, and who have no parallel in comparative law. The legal meaning of suffocation is not that of a privilege attached to the person of the suffocation, but rather is a prerogative that guarantees the proper exercise of his or her public functions. At that point and with that function it is necessary to maintain it, in conjunction with the need for democratic regeneration demanded by society, but without undermining the confidence of citizens in our institutions, especially beginning with the judiciary. In order to achieve all these objectives, the best option is certainly to move in the direction that European comparative law sets for us and to take steps to equate our legislation with that of the rest of the Union's Member States. Undoubtedly this is the path followed by the Socialist Party in the different territories and by the Socialist Government of Spain. For this reason, both this proposal which comes today from the Parliament to eliminate the outbursts of the autonomous deputies emanating from the statute and the initiative of the Government of Spain to limit the regime of outbursts emanating from the Constitution, connecting it only and exclusively with the exercise of the functions proper to their posts and during the period of their mandate, fulfil each of them, or rather both in combination, strictly with the electoral programme with which the Socialist Party presented itself to the elections of 2016, in which in this section it literally said: Limit the outbursts to the exercise of political activity and promote that the autonomous communities suppress the outbursts in the statutes of autonomy. It is a question of changing the form of afforestation, adapting it to the times and accompanying it to the legislation in force in the majority of the Member States of the Union, and that is why we will vote in favour of this initiative. However, neither will we deceive ourselves nor is it good to deceive the citizens of this country. The change in the shape of the drills is good and necessary to achieve the goal of democratic regeneration, but not only with the modification of drills we will achieve the goal, it is not the drills that disturb political life, it is corruption. Democratic regeneration must be believed and committed to it in all the actions of political parties, because democratic regeneration can also be attacked from different fronts. For example, to the spokesman for Citizens I would explain to him that he can go up to this rostrum, he and his fellow parliamentarians and cry out how many times they want to make someone believe that they came to regenerate the political life of this country, but that there is a simple rule of politics, and I would dare to say even physics, which says that you cannot sip and blow at the same time, and all the falseness of his supposed desire to regenerate politics was uncovered when last June they stood next to the People's Party in the first motion of censure that went forward in the history of our democracy and that united the majority of Members of this House with a single common premise: the need for a democratic regeneration in the face of a government denied by corruption. And I would like to ask the People's Party as a citizen of the Balearic Islands to put more tin in the next selection of its candidates for our autonomous community, since the one who does not end up in jail for looting us, ends up giving a door and entering the auction of the far right, the one who says he wants to suppress our autonomy. That is also to love the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Marí Bosó has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u20	Thank you, President. First of all, let me... [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands is brought to this plenary, with a timely amendment of the Organic Act 1/2007 on the autonomous status of Members, the President of the Government and the members of that Government, and with the unanimous support of all parliamentary groups represented in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. And we do so, ladies and gentlemen, at a certain time, delimited, with regard to the issue we are dealing with today, on the one hand, with the fact announced by the President of the Government of the dissolution of the General Courts and the convening of elections on 28 April; and, on the other hand, with regard to the processing in this House of a draft constitutional reform carried out by the Government of the nation, in order to also limit the objective scope of the hanging, both of the national parliamentarians and of the President and of the members of the Government of the nation. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the framework within which the debate is held this afternoon. As far as the decision to dissolve the General Courts is concerned, it is clear that there is no fault on the part of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands that Mr Sánchez was forced to dissolve the General Courts, but it is also clear that if Mr Sánchez had not breached his word and called immediately as he promised, these would have already been held and the process of this bill would not be aborted today in this debate. More important is the debate that this afternoon we are holding on the draft constitutional reform that the Government is dealing with, because this allows the People's Group to link the two reforms, the constitutional and the statutory ones, since they share the same purpose and the same legislative technique, the objective limitation of the severance for the respective governments and the respective Chambers. In this it is in the interest of the People's Group to reflect and point out a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party has been maintaining that this debate should be a comprehensive, comprehensive debate, taking into account various aspects. In this regard, and because it serves both for the autonomous initiative and for a future national initiative, it is important to take into account, in addition to deciding whether we are only talking about limiting the length of time to political posts or talking about the length of time for the more than 250 000 people who have this procedural guarantee in Spain; in addition to deciding this, ladies and gentlemen, I say that we should take into account the warning made by the Council of State in the report proposing the constitutional reform that we are talking about when we point out that it is necessary to limit the length of time, as is the case in the comparative constitutional systems; but at the same time, it is also necessary to take into account the absence in those same constitutional systems of the procedural figure of popular action. There is no less warning, ladies and gentlemen; and although Mr Sánchez was not interested, because at the time of the constitutional reform he was interested in what he was interested in, it would be good, in our view, to take that warning into account. With regard to the difference I mentioned at the outset, ladies and gentlemen, what a difference. What a big difference there is between promoting a statutory reform like the one we are debating today, which has had the unanimity of the political forces of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, and taking out a constitutional reform of the sleeve without talking to anyone, as Mr Sánchez did. What a difference, ladies and gentlemen. What a big difference there is between proposing a statutory reform with the real intention of limiting the self-determination of decision-making, such as the one we are discussing today, and using the self-determination to announce a constitutional reform because the lack of honesty of a president of the government who advocated a thesis had to be addressed. What a difference, ladies and gentlemen; what a great difference. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, that - the lack of honesty of the President of the Government - was what was in question in September, when Mr Sánchez got out of the way with this constitutional reform, and this - the lack of honesty of the President of the Government - remains in question today, when there is no more constitutional reform that is worth it. What a big difference. And what great difference, ladies and gentlemen, because the true account of these eight months of legislature has been the dishonest use that Mr Sánchez has made of the constitutional pact, to reform it - as we say now - or to put the Constitution in the carpet of negotiations with those who want to repeal it? On these grounds, ladies and gentlemen, every speech about our Constitution, dialogue and centrality in Mr Sánchez's mouth has sounded and sounds inconsistent, sounds without substance. How can you appeal to dialogue that does not practice it even when it proposes a constitutional reform, even if it is about strangulations, going to the brave? What project of country can Mr Sánchez and the Socialists propose for the future if it has been proved in these months that they do not understand that the true foundation of the plural nation is that, despite the ideological differences - however profound these are - we unite Spain, understand it every Spanish as understanding; we unite Spain to vertebrate it and not to disintegrate it? If that is not understood, ladies and gentlemen, let us not talk about a constitutional reform, a statutory reform or the outbursts. If that is not understood, it is shown that a partisan use is being made, as Mr Yllanes and Mrs Hernanz have done this afternoon in the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that Spain can govern those who use dialogue as an alibi to impose their holy will. He cannot govern Spain, in our opinion, who only attends to stratagems and does not have a broad view of what our country needs. He cannot govern Spain, in short, who does not understand it, and therefore, and even if they should have summoned them last July, it is already time for the Spaniards, next 28 April, to remedy it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u21	Thank you very much. We thank the representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands for their statement. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u22	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress, which is an organic amendment to the Criminal Code to strengthen the rule of law and the institutions of the State. I remind all of you that I hope I do not have to call the matter, which I have not done at the previous point out of respect for the guests of the Balearic Islands Parliament. I remind you that each debate has its end, purpose and purpose; other debates also have their end, purpose and purpose, but we cannot devote ourselves in all debates to talking about what is not the issue we are dealing with. For the presentation of this initiative, Mrs Montserrat Montserrat has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u23	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the People's Group is presenting a proposal for a law to restore the criminalization in the Criminal Code of the convening of illegal referendums. Nationalism is the worst enemy of freedom, democracy and coexistence; it is a totalitarianism that does not accept the freedom of those we think or feel differently, acts against democracy, attacks the rule of law, violates the separation of powers and violates sentences. It also breaks the values of the European Union, which was built precisely to defeat and overcome nationalisms; for this reason the independenceists have neither received nor will ever receive any support from the major European parties and that is why the European institutions see the supremacyism of Torra and Puigdemont as a danger to European peace and construction. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain Catalan nationalism practices the most rancid and anti-democratic populism in Europe, abuses the power of the Generalitat to divide Catalans and trample our freedoms, diverts public money to create a 3% paradise and to be enriched by corruption, creates state structures, finances TV3's propaganda machinery, indoctrinates in schools and feeds separatist associations to suffocate socially, culturally and economically those we think differently. And Torra continues to threaten - yesterday itself - to go all the way to achieve independence. Meanwhile, the Socialist Party, with the vice president at its head, tells us that we must give a political solution to those who call us the Spanish beasts mad. Do you think the solution is to humiliate the Spaniards with a table of parties outside Parliament and with a rapporteur to negotiate self-determination? Do you think the solution is to kneel before separatism and abandon millions of Catalans to those who will only conform when they break Spain? The People's Party is in the solution. The solution is the Constitution, the solution is to strengthen democratic institutions and defend the rule of law. Therefore, in the face of Catalan nationalism, the solution is better Catalonia, more Spain, in a stronger Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, socialism has always been an accomplice to nationalism to weaken Spain. It was you, the socialists, who gave free bar to the nationalists with the I will support the statue that comes out of Parliament - Zapatero -, leaving Spain unprotected with the elimination of the previous recourse of unconstitutionality. It was you, the socialists, who agreed on a statute that left justice in the hands of nationalism. Do you remember that the People's Party was very criticized because it appealed to the Constitutional Court that statute? And lucky that the People's Party appealed it, because otherwise today the coups would be tried by a court elected by the separatists. It was you, the socialists, who removed the sentences from the Penal Code for those who called for an illegal referendum. We put them in the Penal Code, you removed them from the Penal Code, and today our initiative wants to recover what we have already put in place, because, ladies and gentlemen, the Penal Code must serve to prevent us from being beaten against democracy, because it is a rule that protects us from crimes and criminals and, therefore, must adapt to the new social realities. For this reason, in 2003 the People's Party reformed the Penal Code, to punish with prison sentences and absolute disqualifications the authorities that convene electoral processes or popular consultations through referendums without competence for this purpose. The People's Party was able to anticipate the threats of radical nationalism that then represented a PNV with the Ibarretxe plan. The left have always paved the way for nationalists who want to destroy Spain. That's why, because of that PNV and that Ibarretxe plan, you got it out of the Penal Code. You, the Socialist Party, to stay a few more months in Moncloa, have traditionally become willing to rescue separatism. Ladies and gentlemen, years after the PSOE decriminalised this kind of coup against democracy, events in Catalonia show us that that was a disloyalty to Spain. Independence in Catalonia shows us that in the 21st century the blows to democracy are not made with sands or pistols, but are made from the institutions themselves. Its partners in Catalonia designed a criminal road map, and to carry it out they used the Bureau of Parliament, the Government of the Generalitat and civil associations, well-stocked with subsidies, that shook the streets. In Catalonia, totalitarian laws were passed at the plenary sessions of the Parliament on 6 and 7 September 2017, public funds were diverted to organize a referendum that was illegal and was part of the road map of rebellion and sedition and the independence leaders tried to carry out that plan, despite the fact that the leadership of the Mossos d'Esquadra had warned them of the high risk of violence on the streets in Catalonia. The use of public money and the use of people as human shields were part of the plan that culminated in the declaration of independence. Everything served them to proceed to declare the republic and independence. These separatist leaders knew that they were committing a crime, they knew the reports of the Parliament's legal services or the decisions of the State Guarantee Board, and they ignored them; they knew the rulings, the orders and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they ignored them; indeed, they laughed at all of them. You will remember how the coward - and I say coward Puigdemont, because I suppose the Republican Left think he is a coward because while he is eating mussels in Brussels - and fugitive Puigdemont made a selfie by laughing at the five notifications of the Constitutional Court. [[applause]] You all knew that you were delinquent, that you were warned; you knew the harmful consequences of your actions for the coexistence and daily life of Catalan society, but you continued and continued. Neither repent nor ask for forgiveness, and those who are on the bench want to lower their guilt to the category of a simple traffic ticket; some politicians who today are on the bench is for the firmness of the People's Party Government by stopping the coup against the State, applying article 155 and urging the State Advocate, on behalf of all Spaniards, to press charges of rebellion, sedition and embezzlement against the coups. It was a Government of the People's Party that stopped separatism by resorting to all its proceedings before the Constitutional Court, by ceasing its Government and closing all the separatist embassies, and if the PSOE had not repealed the Penal Code, those independenceists on the bench today would also be accused of calling for an illegal referendum. Today the leaders of that coup again threaten to repeat that sad autumn of 2017, and the Democrats, knowing what these enemies of democracy are capable of, have an obligation to strengthen the rule of law. Retrieving the offence of convening an illegal referendum is inexcusable in order to protect the rights and freedoms of each and every Catalan and the rest of the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia needs a constitutionalist government that defends the Constitution, the statute, respects the sentences and complies with the separation of powers; a government that, instead of propaganda and confrontation, solves the real problems. Catalonia needs a government that complies with the law and Spain needs a government that enforces it. [[Applauds]] Therefore, on April 28 the Spaniards will take Pedro Sánchez from Moncloa. The Spaniards deserve and we will again have a worthy government, a government that does not lie and that does not depend on the enemies of Spain. The Popular Party defends the unity of Spain not only by word; we are the only party that defended it with facts, pushing instruments to end the threats and blackmails of coup and to strengthen the institutions; instruments that the Socialist Party, in the last eight months, has always rejected because it prefers to double the 47 million Spaniards before independence. You have said no to apply 155 and dismiss the supremacist Torra. You have said not to take control of the Mosses and the finances of the Generalitat. You have said not to close the tap of public resources to those who attack democracy and agitate the kale borroka. You have said not to close the separatist embassies, do not want to guarantee the neutrality of public spaces and institutions and do not want to ban pardons to those condemned for sedition and rebellion. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, standing idly by is not an option. There is no ambiguity in this initiative. The appeasement with independence is a mistake because independenceists are insatiable. Negotiating and yielding to them is a betrayal of Spain and a sure defeat. You, the Socialist Party, to come to power are willing to sell national sovereignty on time. You have agreed with the independenceists to evict the People's Party of Power; so you socialists have become the political prisoners of the imprisoned politicians. And you cannot deny that you have fulfilled your shameful part: you have dismissed Judge Llerena, negotiated the budgets in a prison, decriminalized the insults to the Crown, purged the State Attorney's Office, voted against the symbol law, suffered the impunity of the kale borroka, promised pardons to the separatists and accepted a table with mediator to negotiate self-determination. [[Applauds]] If in just eight months the list of infamy is so long, in an entire legislature you liquidate Spain. And it is that the Socialist Party whitewashs the coup by staining the dignity of Spain. The Spaniards are fed up with a government that lies, a government that betrays us. We're not gonna be fooled. Socialists have not broken up with separatists, their breakup is pure electoral theatre. They continue to embrace the separatists, their pact is more alive than ever and is already well off traps. The independenceists have already decided that independence or nothing, so they abandon the nationalist topics they have bought; there is no formula of referendum that calms the desires of the independenceists other than independence. By voting against our initiative today, they show that they can liquidate Spain in exchange for Moncloa. By voting against this initiative, they show that they are closer to Waterloo than to the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this photo 1 will always haunt the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; the photo of Pedralbes is proof of Sánchez's betrayal of Spain. [[shows a photograph]] [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u24	The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Forum will vote in favour of this proposal for a law presented by the People's Group, which aims to strengthen the rule of law and to equip us again with legal tools that penalize those secessionist conducts and pretensions that seriously undermine or run counter to our essential principles. What has happened in recent years has meant the destabilization of Spain and a succession of shocks to citizen coexistence. Therefore, we consider that no more is needed to renew our commitment to this article 2 of the Constitution, which 'is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards'. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems necessary for our legislation to recover criminal types that were abolished in the VIII Legislature by taking advantage of the parliamentary weakness of the then government. You see, gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, where we have been drawn so much condescension, so much frivolity around the concept of a nation - a concept discussed and questionable, said Mr Zapatero in the Senate - both unconstitutional status - as spokeswoman Dolors Montserrat reminded us - so much autonomous funding to the measure of that Catalan tripartite; by the way, perverse system whose reform declined the government of Pedro Sánchez while bringing to Congress the budget project rejected last week. I would not like to conclude, Madam President, without having words of gratitude and gratitude to the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, unjustly attacked by the insulting independenceist verborrea precisely because of her accredited commitment to Spain, to our Constitution and to the law. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u26	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I also give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u27	Pick it up on. Criminal law is governed by the principles of minimum intervention and proportionality; therefore, a person cannot be deprived of the right to liberty without being strictly indispensable. East 1 Note from the Journal of Sessions: The photo shows, from left to right, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, Batet Lamaña; the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, Calvo Poyato; the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón; the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Torra i Pla; the Vice-President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Aragonès i Garcia; and the President and Spokesperson of the Government of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Artadi Vila. principle established by the Constitutional Court, which the Spanish Government, whether of the PP or the PSOE, comes to every time in our territory we legislate in order to exercise the right to decide. And not only that, these were also the arguments with which the same articles were repealed in 2005 that the PP now wants to reintroduce into the Criminal Code because it is understood that the conduct that is wanted to criminalize - to convene, facilitate or ensure the holding of a referendum - do not have enough entity to deserve criminal punishment, even less if the penalty envisaged is imprisonment. But we already know what awaits us with the PP: democratic involution, authoritarianism and imposition; before its null ability to seduce, prevent by force. They have no other formula. I would even say that they do not trust much of what the Supreme Court is going to dictate in the trial. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u28	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u29	You must not think that you are going to give the Catalan independenceists a sufficient scare so that no one in the future will ever dare to call a referendum again. And I have to tell them they're doing well. You should have learned already that this in crescendo punitiveism that you practice makes you suffer, and much, but does not change the decision of people and peoples in their eagerness to self-determine. They want to bring to such an extreme that punitive obsession that with every reform they propose they make even less guarantee the Penal Code; it is necessary to remember that of 1973, that of Francoism, to find one more guarantee than the current one. You are nostalgics of past times when voting was a crime, when what should be a crime is to prevent voting. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u30	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party brings us here a proposal for a law that is pure and harsh repression. You claim that anyone who convenes a referendum can be put in prison for three to five years, i.e. with more punishment than that provided for in the Criminal Code, in its article 173.2, for violence against the partner or ex-partner. Is that the hierarchy of values you have? Do you find it more worrying to make the referendum than to be violent with one's partner? Don't you think that gender-based violence, for example, is a very important problem in Spain? What's your order of values? Because the Penal Code, by punishing crimes, is setting a priority, a hierarchy of values, and the People's Party is portraying itself well in the field of extremism with this proposal that brings us now. We are many who are already fed up with the'referendumtitis' you have, the obsession you have with calling for referendums. Do you want to apply this article also to those mayors who, for example, make a popular consultation to ask their neighbors if they want shows involving animals? Are we all gonna end up in jail? What's going to happen to all of us? Extremism is what you are selling us, and the vast majority of the population is sick of it. The referendum is a mechanism for popular participation provided for in article 92 of the Constitution, which also gives it consultative status. What are you afraid of if you consult people? Tell them what they don't like? I mean, what is indirectly suppressing is talking about people? This is truly unacceptable. We, in Compromise, cannot support these repressive delusions that you bring us and, of course, we will not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u32	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u33	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall continue with another sentence which is not in the official language of this House either: excuse non-petita, accusation manifesto. Why do you present this bill? They were supposed to have tied and tied the Catalan issue well with the accusations of uprising, with the accusations of sedition; therefore, they would not have to present anything, because they had it well bound, would they not? Or do you, with the presentation of this legislative proposal, acknowledge that you are absolutely wrong in accusing the Catalan process? Is that what's happening? If not, why submit this bill? Theoretically, they would have enough with the rest. What seems to me to be happening is that in the end you have realized that what German, Swiss, British and Belgian justice have said will sooner or later explode in your face. That's what you're trying to fix. They know they're absolutely wrong. I'm gonna finish, 'cause I'm out of time. Right now, while I'm talking, a friend of mine over forty years ago, an honest person, Jordi Turull, is being tried for applying what his electoral program said, but when he introduced it - which is what a politician is supposed to do - no one, either from the Executive or from the Judiciary, told him that it could not be done. He is now being tried on charges of more than twenty years for this, he and many more Catalan social and political leaders. This is your shame and this is what sooner or later, whether through European justice or global justice, is going to blow up on your face. Hence the proposal that you have put forward, which is undoubtedly a public shame. Until the next sentences - let them be the last - and you will know what justice really is. Thank you very much for your tolerance, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u34	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u35	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of a bill by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend the Criminal Code, to reintroduce prison, disqualification and fines for authorities, officials and intervenors who, respectively, convene, authorize, facilitate, promote or secure electoral processes or referendums without having the competence or authorization to do so. We say that the initiative intends to reintroduce some criminal types because these were already in force between the end of 2003 and June 2005, when the People's Parliamentary Group, at the last plenary session of the Second Aznar Legislature, passed Organic Law 2/2003 with only its votes, in the midst of a major controversy, since the amendment of the Criminal Code was made through an amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate to the Arbitration Bill. Such was the controversy that one of the first legislative initiatives in the next legislature was the one that proposed the repeal of the 2003 Act, which finally happened with Organic Law 2/2005. Now, in 2019, fifteen years later and also at the end of this XII Legislature, history repeats itself. The People's Parliamentary Group, showing contumacy, resubmits a proposal for a law to reintroduce articles 506 bis and 521 bis into the Criminal Code, acting also on this occasion, with presumed support of Citizens, as vicarious organ of Vox in this Legislative Chamber and for a mere electoral calculation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will not support this legislative initiative for the same reasons why we now opposed an identical initiative fifteen years ago. We consider it a criminal clumsiness and a political clumsiness. Do you want to face a political conflict with criminal measures? Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of such conflicts, is the Criminal Code the solution or part of the problem? Or is it that you do not want to recognize the nature of the conflict in the Basque Country and Catalonia? Is it appropriate for us to involve judges and, even more, criminal judges in solving problems that have their origin and cause in political approaches? Already in 2003, and in the face of these same criminal types, the legal doctrine, the collegial groups and the judicial associations ruled against the use of criminal channels to deal with political problems, such as the territorial question in the Basque Country and Catalonia. In those moments were the Plan Ibarretxe and the so-called Atutxa case and now the so-called process. That is why we were wondering - and we were wondering - whether it is the right criminal law to solve these kinds of issues or, quite the contrary, to inflame them even more, as we have seen these days. Is it possible to build an ad personam criminal law, a criminal law in which one of its chapters or sections reads: Of offences relating to Basque and Catalan independenceists? Therefore, we qualified and qualified these criminal types from the point of view of minimal intervention, of the last ratio and of suitability as a criminal clumsiness. In short, we ask ourselves: Is it reasonable to propose that the authorities, officials and intervening citizens who participate in non-binding referendums that have not been authorized should go to prison? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u37	In its day, the People's Party asked us whether a measure such as the proposal, which came out in the wake of a challenge to the Constitution, did not strengthen democracy and protect popular sovereignty. However, in view of this situation, the correct question for the Basque Parliamentary Group is not that of the People's Party, but that of the other: Why can a situation like this be reached? And then you wonder if, when you get to her, the answer has to be criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself why a political leader is politically bound, committed and compelled to ask citizens, without binding character, about a matter that is in the political debate. And if he does, should he go to jail? In our view, these are the questions to be asked. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have to say that this situation is coming about because dialogue has previously been denied and the search for agreements has been renounced, also recognizing the limits and needs that our interlocutor has at every moment. Because it has not been intended to recognize a problem and even less to deal with it in agreement with rules of clarity or even without having to arrive at it, at least by making it possible to know the opinion of the citizen directly, without excluding that of the whole State, if it is considered appropriate by the nature of the issue. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what is the legal good protected in a democracy, asking citizens or not asking them? Because this is what we are dealing with in this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, asking citizens, does democracy strengthen or degrade? Wouldn't it be better to know what you think to act with more information and discretion? I'm finishing up, President. We are at the end of this XII Legislature, which abruptly ends up in a shivering and bleak climate, in which either we lower the tension or the thing will get worse in the near future. We believe that proposals such as the one we are discussing now encourage territorial confrontation, aggravate drama, further strain seams and add more suffering to suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, let us regain the path of dialogue, which is neither cowardice nor weakness, but quite the contrary, courage and strength. Let us move away from noise and fury, from anger and confrontation, and let us return to the path of politics, rather than to the path of criminal politics. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u39	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. You know that every time they call us a thug, what are we gonna call them? Fascists. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is curious that this initiative is presented by a party condemned by a criminal organization. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: That's not true]] Sure, sure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u41	I haven't interrupted, so respect my speaking time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u42	Mr. Olano, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u43	Thank you. However, we are grateful that the People's Party has presented this initiative because it gives us the reason why the holding of a referendum is not illegal. They therefore recognize that the trial of the trial is a farce, that it has no legal basis and that it is a political trial against political dissent. Voting in a referendum is not a crime; working for the independence of Catalonia peacefully is not a crime; nothing we have done is a crime, nothing. And of the crimes that we want to be accused of, we have committed none. I think it is absolutely clear that the prosecution's argument is forced. Honestly, it's like someone said to me, "Look, you haven't committed any crime, but that's exactly why I think you're a criminal. It doesn't make sense. If nothing we have done is a crime, it is clear that the argument of the accusations is not sustained. Voting is not a crime; instead, preventing it by force is; preventing people from voting by force is a crime. Voting is not a crime, voting is not a crime because it is not in the Penal Code; it is not in the Penal Code but the legislator explicitly drew it out. Where is it written that working for Catalonia's independence is a crime? Nowhere. Nothing we've done is a crime. In case someone did not have the opportunity or would not listen to the statement of our vice president Oriol Junqueras, these words that I have just said are his, they are words full of dignity and legitimacy. [[Applauds]] And that's what bothers them, the truth, because they don't want to talk. The only answer is repression and criminal prosecution. This proposal for a law denotes a lack of political responsibility and inability to meet the problems and demands of society. They intend to destroy Catalonia at the stroke of the Criminal Code and the criminalization of the completely legitimate and democratic aspirations of the Catalan people. The only possible sentence is acquittal. With all this they are giving us reason and they know it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue before us in the debate on this proposal for a law is of the utmost importance, more than it might seem. It is summed up in one question: should democracy or should it not defend itself from its enemies? If so, with what instruments? Or, rather, are the instruments at our disposal sufficient? That's the point. The Democrats must accept and accept that the system will always have a fifth column, as Raymond Aron said; that is, with political forces declaring themselves enemies of the regime within the same regime. Here today, in Spain, this fifth column is mainly enlarged by the independenceist parties, not because they defend the separation of a number of territories, Mrs Telechea, or the destruction of the principle of national sovereignty, but because they accept that in order to achieve these objectives everything is worth it. It is worth skipping the law, dividing society, making mangaes and capirotes of institutions and turning more than half of Catalans into foreigners on their own land. That is what is unacceptable, that is what a democracy cannot accept. Because accepting that some defend their ideas is the same as the political pluralism of our constitutional system and of any liberal democracy, but that does not mean in any case - they are not confused - that democracy cannot or, rather, should not defend itself from its enemies. Democracy is a form of peaceful competition for power and that competition is regulated by rules of play. Therefore, democratic competition goes hand in hand with complying with those rules, and we democrats have an obligation to defend democracy against those who want to violate those rules. It is not true - it will have to be repeated whenever it is necessary - that democracy is above the law, as the independenceists claim, say it at a rally or say it in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. Democracy is not above the law. This is a false dilemma. There is no democracy without law. Ladies and gentlemen, ultimately, the laws are designed to protect the majority and minorities, those who comply with them and also those who have violated them. They are the only instrument we democrats have at our disposal to defend ourselves against the enemies of the system, the quintacolumnists. For this reason, today Citizens will support this proposal for a law brought to us by the People's Parliamentary Group, but we want to make some considerations. Firstly, as I have already said, Spain is not a militant democracy, this has been repeated repeatedly by the Constitutional Court; on the contrary, of course, other European countries, where these conducts would have sanctions not only criminal but also constitutional sanctions. But let no one confuse this determined commitment of our democratic system and our Constitution for ideological pluralism with democratic weakness. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that one legal order can be replaced by another without subjecting itself to the rules that the same order contemplates, because that, whether they like it or not, is the classic kelsenian definition of coup d'état. That is the definition of the conduct that took place last autumn in Catalonia and it doesn't matter that such conduct is violent by a small group of people, by popular mass movements or, as happened there, by the Government itself and from power, fits perfectly into a political and also legal definition of coup d'état. And yes, Mr Guillaumes, those conducts are already punishable in our Penal Code, but, as I said, we need to improve the instruments because the instruments of the coupsmen are also fine-tuned. They used to need bullets, cannons and machine guns, and now they don't need them because they've come to power. We can discuss why they have agreed but this is so and therefore we need to fine-tune the instruments. It is not that there are no instruments, it is not that these conducts are not penalized because they are already; that is, that they do not see in this intervention ours nor in support of this proposal of law nor the slightest hint of delegitimization of the judicial process that is being held right now before the Supreme Court. Mr Guillaumes, I would also like to say that Mr Turull has a very hard ear; Mr Turull and the others sitting in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. They have a very hard ear for that, which is why you said that no one had warned them that they were committing an illegality. Well, they have a hard ear and they can't read, because in writing and repeatedly the Constitutional Court warned them that they were exceeding all legal limits and made sleeves and capirots of those warnings. In other words, do not come to tell a reality that was not so, because it is true that they were repeatedly warned; it was not for lack of warnings. That absolutely shaky will was inherent in his plan to destroy the unity of Spain and gave no matter what was said to them. In the light of the words of the PNV spokesman, I would also like to say that this rule does not infringe the principle of minimum intervention proper to criminal law. We absolutely disagree with Law 2/2005 when it said that it decriminalized because it referred to conduct that did not have enough entity to merit criminal prosecution. But is it not criminally reprehensible to generate a huge social fracture, to pretend to turn more than half of Catalans into foreigners on their own land? Whoever claims that, does he really think he's not having a serious conduct worthy of criminal reprimand? The measure proposed is absolutely proportional. And don't let us be told that this is not a serious behavior and please don't let more than half of Catalan society be childish by telling them that all you're pretending to do is vote and that voting is a childish game, a banal game without consequences, because the social consequences we're seeing right now in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] It is not that the ballot boxes are put in, that whoever cooperates in such conduct must know that he is committing a crime, that he is attacking the State and democracy itself and, therefore, has to have consequences. Gentlemen of the People's Party, forgive me for also telling you, but you are a little late with this bill. Where were you during the long mandates in which nationalism was building the powerful propaganda apparatus that allowed you to give this blow? What were you doing while your Government was preparing two illegal consultations, 9-N and 1 October? What were they doing when they were desperately looking for ballot boxes that they couldn't find with that painful October 1st management? Where were they, in short, when they abandoned the non-independence majority of Catalonia for decades? And what about the Socialists - I conclude, Madam President -. President Sánchez legitimized first and foremost the world to those who gave a coup d'état in Catalonia in autumn 2017, turning them into their partners; to those who gave a coup d'état in Catalonia, President Sánchez handed over the keys of the country, the keys of Spain, the action of government, political stability, the call for elections, all the functions that the Executive Power must exercise firmly have been delegated from the motion of censure until the end of last Friday's escape to those who wanted to liquidate Spain and had been doing so with repeated warning. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Today we will support this bill, and we want to tell those who vote against that what is propitiating is the impunity of those who want to destroy our constitutional system and our democracy. Know it well, they are trying to disempower our democracy from an instrument necessary to defend themselves. But we have no doubt that the day is coming when the Spaniards will yell at you with all the democratic power of the ballot box that they govern with the nationalists, as you have done, lords of the People's Party and lords of the Socialist Party, never...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u46	Mr. Prendes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u47	..., never again - remember it well - will come free. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u48	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u49	Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. Frankly, what brings us here today, to the Chamber, in short, does not cease to be good news, good news for all those who believe not only in the urgent need for the Catalan prisoners and political prisoners to be released, but at the end of the day a good news for all those who are convinced that they are innocent. In fact, it's good news; less than a year ago former Minister Montoro gave us good news when he himself believed there was no misappropriation; today you bring us another good news when you tell us that calling a referendum, a popular consultation is not now a crime, it wasn't on October 1, 2017 and, don't be fooled, it won't be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. It is revealing that one week after the dissolution of these Courts, when the proposals that are being put forward from this atrium are thought - let us not be fooled - from a clean electoral mentality, they bring us this proposal of law, which frankly marks a trend, tells us what they are going to talk about in the electoral campaign, what their backbones are going to be: democratic regression, repression and punitive populism as axes of this campaign. Reading the article they propose to us, there is no room for doubt: prison, prison for all, prison for all; from one year to two years in prison for all citizens who participate, facilitate, promote or ensure illegal consultations or referendums. Ladies and gentlemen, the summary is hate; it is a broad proposal that covers all organizers, participants, voters, people who are at tables, people who go to schools, the person who brings a snack to the speaker or brings him a coffee, everyone to jail. They have definitely lost the north, they do not have enough to call criminals the 2,350 000 Catalans and Catalans that we participate on November 9, 2014 in the first consultation, they do not have enough to call criminals the 2,300,000 Catalans and Catalans that we participate by throwing batons, by throwing rubber bullets on October 1; no, they want us criminals and they want us in jail. But not only in this area, also criminals the 37,500 Catalans and Catalans that in May 2014 made possible and participated in the multi-referendum, those that we think in ballots on the public management of water, on the transgenics, on the illegitimate debt, on the democratic control of the energy sector, on the ILPs; criminals, dangerous armed criminals of ballots against which, by the way, the Government of the Generalitat, the Government of Convergence i Unió, chaired by Mr Mas, whose advisor d'Interior was Mr Espadaler, today in the ranks of the PSC in the Parliament of Catalonia, sent the Mossos d'Esquadra to request ballots and also left us to those who participated as a nice memory of the police background that today many of us still look. And not only these criminals, but also criminals who are going to promote the multiconsultancies already provided for by the Barcelona Assembly as a basic instrument of citizen participation, an instrument that will prevail the popular will over the wills of energy lobbies, of financial lobbies. Yes, Your Honor, all, all, criminals, worthy of a fine, of imprisonment, of bars that deprive of liberty, worthy of a gag that silences his voice, that voice so annoying for the People's Party, those voices so far away from the concept of Spain that bring us the trills of Columbus Square. Mrs. Montserrat, a while ago you were displaying a photo and saying: the photo of shame. The picture of shame is that of Columbus Square, that of the trills of hatred, the trills of regression; that is the true photograph of shame. [[Applauds]] But the proposal will not go forward, most of this Congress firmly believes in the need to know the popular will of citizens, in which democracy goes far beyond putting a ballot paper in an urn every four years. Most of this Congress is going to prevent this attempt to criminalize popular consultations and will stop the return of more cassy aznarism, will stop a criminal type of gallinaceous flight promulgated in 2003, repealed in 2005 and also declared unconstitutional in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the orange bench, listening to this debate, I would recommend that you also speak to the Mayor of Barcelona, Mr Valls, who a few days ago, on 12 February, launched a tweet in which he said that an illegal consultation is a crime. Another lie thrown without blush. Everything goes to attack Ada Colau, everything goes to attack the municipalities of change. No, voting isn't a crime, it wasn't and it won't be. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, remind the memoryless Mr Alfonso Guerra that the repeal of the crime was by an organic law, not by a GNP, as he said to Mr Évole these days, by an organic law which he also voted for. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, remember also that until 2012 you had in your electoral programmes a referendum to solve the Catalan question. Pancakes, compañeros and compañeros! Nor would it be that they reprimanded the Secretary of State of Global Spain, who was responsible for the projection of the brand Spain, for their macho insults, for their unfortunate comparison of the fact of voting without consent with a violation. They should apply for his resignation and they should apply for his retraction, and more remembering that at the moment people, men and women, who have been in prison for more than a year without conviction, are being tried, simply because of the fact that they allow to vote, while the herd, condemned and sentenced for rape, are camped free on the streets. And Mrs Montserrat said: adapting to the new realities. Adapting to the new realities is to meet the social demand of referendums, a social demand that has increased in recent years in Europe, that increased participation of citizens, those popular consultations, those referendums that must be conceived as part of representative democracy and not apart; they abandon their laziness, their despotism, their fear of hearing the voice of citizens; prohibit, arrest, judge, prosecute, penalize, incarcerate those who conceive other mechanisms of participation does not resolve conflicts or improve the democratic quality of the rule of law. I'm done, Madam President. Spain needs a democratic regeneration. On 28 April, citizens of the Spanish State will have their opportunity to deepen the necessary mechanisms of this new participatory democracy, this new democracy of the future. And do yourself a favor, ladies and gentlemen of the right, abandon the fake news, abandon reactionary nostalgia, abandon the cheating temptations of the extreme right and prove that this country deserves and can have a right would be, modern and above all, democratic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard from Mrs Montserrat, we are addressing an initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend the Criminal Code in order to strengthen the rule of law and the institutions of the State. Mrs Montserrat, you are at ease; although I am going to tell you two things: I have not found a single argument that will allow me to amend the Penal Code; instead, I have to recognize a huge merit in teleportation: I closed my eyes and saw myself in the Plaza de Colon. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, you are missing the rigour of this House, the procedures you demand and what the citizens demand. It is not new, we saw it in the Senate, where they introduced an amendment to modify the election of judicial officers of the judiciary; they incorporated texts that have not been in force since 1989 - territorial hearings, they said. The short and stick was not given them well; they were wrong in their amendment. And today, in the initiative they bring us, they again make bulwark errors in their explanatory statement. In the first paragraph - there is no need to go to the second - they say that the Criminal Code punishes crimes and faults. Don't you remember that in 2015 you removed the faults? Please, a little bit of rigor, someone read the documents before you put them on the record, and if they don't find anyone, I volunteer. [[Applauds]] Look, there is one question: this initiative does not strengthen the rule of law or strengthen the institutions of the State. Our legal system has sufficient mechanisms to defend the constitutional order, the Constitution itself, the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, article 161, by establishing the possibility of challenging before the Constitutional Court the decisions and provisions established by the autonomous communities when they contravene the Constitution or the rest of the legal system; 155, but I will not talk about it because it seems that the Kings have brought it to them. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can doubt that the Catalan conflict is a very serious, tremendously serious problem that this country has; the question is how we stand before it, and I will tell you one thing: you are delighted to stand in the conflict; others, in the solution. This government has told them to the full: law, law, law, and nothing outside the law, but also dialogue. What's going on? That you were seven years in government and didn't worry about convening a bilateral commission or having a dialogue; you left everything in the hands of the judiciary and the Criminal Code, and the trial is now being held, then we have something to say, and that is why I will end up talking about the Criminal Code. I remembered Oscar Wilde - I think it was Oscar Wilde; it has come to my mind, but I am not sure of my memory - when I said that in life one can resist all but temptations, and that is what happened to Mr. Casado, who has not been able to resist the temptation to criminalize the political conflict that is unable to resolve, that is why he emulates Mr. Aznar in 2003 when he established in Law 20/2003 the criminalization of illegal calls, an issue that we have already heard that decriminalized in 2005 President Zapatero and about what - careful! - the Constitutional Court told them in Judgment 119/2011 - because there was already a precedent of the legislative chapters to which he referred - that it is not right to put into the Arbitration Law issues that had nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that they do not end up understanding that the Criminal Code fulfils a constitutional function that no one can escape, but it is not an element to throw at the political adversary. Let us communicate with the idea that citizens feel detached from politics. How can you not feel it when you see that there is a policy of living room, a policy of posture, a policy of symbolism? The problems with the Criminal Code are being addressed, but the conflict is not being addressed, and that is the difference between you and us. Dialoging is not giving in; consensus is not giving in to the enemy, it is the duty of every Democrat: to dialogue to solve problems and to look for a Spain in which we all fit, but not to throw us the Penal Code. [[Applauds]] With a manifestation like the one we have seen and with the initiative that you bring, you retract and, worst of all, you reciprocate. Why are they portrayed? Because they show their weakness and, more importantly, they show a way of doing politics like the one Mr Casado showed us here last week when we were discussing the amendments to all the budgets. When asked what are the alternatives to solving the Catalan problem, he says: It's over! That's not a democrat's answer, and if anyone has any doubt that they will look at page 30 of the February 12 Sessions Diary and see how it clearly says it, as it has said these days in the press: On April 28 we play Torra or 155; unity or chaos. Do you really think this country deserves that? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very clear question, and it is that every modern society understands that when a person violates the legal order he must be punished, but modern and intelligent societies also unanimously believe that punishment does not solve the problem, but that the problem is to stay there. And that's what happens to you, to confuse the punishment of crime with the solution of the problem, and that's where it doesn't go. Therefore, it is affable that they repeat in this position that we have already seen in Law 20/2003, the law of Mr Aznar, and that they now reproduce textually in its articles 506 bis and 521 bis introducing illegal solicitation and participation in it. Do you really think the Penal Code is necessary for this? Have not the qualification writings set out in the process being held today been read? I insist that the qualification document should be read in order to know that the Criminal Code sets out important tools to combat what is happening: the crime of prevarication, the crime of disobedience, the crime of usurpation of functions, the crime of embezzlement of funds. Our punitive cast is so important that there are no cracks, and the evidence is in the trial being held today. The court will say whether they are really guilty or not; it will be a problem of the judiciary. But, of course, through this path of repression and throwing the political opponent into the Penal Code we will not solve the Catalan problem, and there they will not find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u53	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress calling on the Government of Spain to recognize the legitimate president of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr García Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u54	President, thank you very much. Almost eighteen years of my life dedicated to Venezuela and I know that, with that nunc dimittis that we can pronounce the Spaniards, I will not leave without seeing democracy in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] Because the fog of tyranny and fear in the night are dispelled by calling firmly, courageously and calmly to the door of democracy; a fog so necessary for usurpers, that they may conceal all their actions, that it is dispelled when a modern John without fear, Guaidó, decides that it is his people and his Constitution that lift up this veil of delusion and deletereus of the satraps Chávez and Maduro. This fog becomes non-existent when MEPs from the People's Party, Esteban González Pons, Ignacio Salafranca, Gabriel Mato and the indispensable Juan Salafranca, are hailed by a plane full of Venezuelans who applaud their courage and to whom I pay tribute from here. [[Applauds]] The fog no longer exists and the only thing that assumes is Maduro's obscene and naked weakness. If it were not so dramatic the situation of Venezuela, of the political prisoners, of the ecstatic resources, of the moral rot and the ethical harassment to which they have subjected Venezuela for so many years, would be a pity. Maduro doesn't seem to be able to leave, they don't let him go: he's a prisoner of Cubans, of Diosdado, of Hizbulá, of drug cartels. Everyone knows that, as a single rope breaks out of those who hold it, all of its cloth that disguised itself as 21st century socialism, which we wanted to sell here the Puemites and their partners, populist communism in the background, but which always leads to empty supermarkets. Therefore, the hunger of his people does not matter; therefore, that people die in his hospitals does not enter the power equation of those who do not want to let him go; therefore, the lack of medicines is an accessory; therefore, they cannot allow the humanitarian aid that awaits in Curaçao or that will cross Saturday through Cúcuta. No, they care what happens to their immense fortunes piled up by Chávez himself's imperative in a particular sharing of benefits and which will break down anyone who wants to devote himself to justice. All for the worst and most abject of the benefits, and all built on corpses, hunger and the freedom of so many innocent people. Spain has already woken up and says: enough already. It's enough, Dr. Sánchez, to play the nice songwriter who looks more like Zapatero than a real president. It is enough to be the one who favours a contact group that does not respect its own fellow citizens or the European Parliament representatives elected by the Spanish. It is enough, Podemos, to talk about international law as if they had discovered it now: here we have been defending legality, human rights and the law itself for a long time. They speak of that false dichotomy between recognition of States and Governments. That doesn't make Spain. Internal Constitutions are respected. We haven't advised any of the Venezuelans. I know that some of you can't say it, you've even drunk, if you haven't drunk, in those sources you're trying to bring here, for the moment without success, but it all depends on the next coalition that Dr. Sanchez does and the role he can play. The risk to Spain is real. Venezuela is living the last chapter, but I have to recognize something, Mr. Bustinduy. You know that I have a very good opinion of you and I hope that this phrase will not harm you, but coming from an Abulense take it with human and political frankness and agreement. You believe - you have stated this - that when we talk about Venezuela it is not to talk about Spain and I have seen you change little by little and present some conathion that being left is not to be concrete and because of these moral cracks you have accepted some argument from this foolish Member who tells you that morality is not circumstantial, that the denunciation of human rights and democracy in all parts of the world has to be done because it is indivisible, that a threat to your freedom is a threat to my freedom, and that is why I will always defend it. That's why I'm telling you a phrase from Edmund Burke that not everyone knows so that you start tutoring him when you have time: you can't be the one who says you love his kind, but then you hate your fellows. Serves for Venezuela and serves for Spain. For the Socialist Party just one sentence: no one knows where they are and they are waiting for them. They are here today and I hope that they are here once again supporting democracy, freedom and the liberation of political prisoners, which must be a priority of any president who wants to be in Spanish democratic continuity and not in historical fiction. Contact groups cannot be encouraged because they appear to be made in accordance with the personal will of the President himself and not with the need for the legitimate authorities of the National Assembly. They grant temporary protection status to all Venezuelans living among us, don't turn your back on them. I would particularly like to thank the Citizens' Group for its support for this cause, sometimes in the face of the People's Party and sometimes questioning our position. Beware of the statement, which I attributed to television slides, that someone who helped us was called Zapatero. I hope you don't go that way because, if you don't, you're going to have to ask very close people about that role Zapatero played, and politics is very serious. You can't make one worthy, you have to know that you always defend the truth and the whole truth. Spain must be as the Venezuelans ask us, not as you want to offer them, in a peaceful, democratic transition, and alleviate the humanitarian crisis by supporting the human countries that are hosting refugees and helping us as they ask us to the elections, and not undermining the duty that Spain has, that historic duty that Spain has, with the Venezuelans, with the millions of Venezuelans who look at us, the hundreds of thousands of Catalan, Basque, Galician and Canary Islands origin, and with so many Venezuelans that we can already call friends and who live here. That is why it is essential that Spain and the Spaniards, when time passes, can look at each other in a mirror and we know where we were, because there is a truth that is true for each and every one of us in this House, for each and every Spaniard who is looking at us, for each and every Venezuelan who has had to learn it with effort: the struggle for freedom is eternal, there are always dictators who want to subjugate us and want to get on our knees. But for the time being, as long as there is still a strong People's Party, a People's Party that is very clear that the struggle for freedom is everyone's, here we will be and live Venezuela free! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u55	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u56	President, colleagues, my predecessor has issued a strange warning that I hope that then, when we are negotiating the transactional, I will be made clear, because I do not think it is timely or even gentlemanly - let us say it this way -. Where was Spain? And when I say where Spain was, that's what we can ask ourselves when big situations like the one that's happening in Venezuela are being debated. Mr Sánchez no longer speaks of Venezuela because he is at something else, he has absolutely disappeared. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u58	Venezuela, as you all know, is not only plunged into a dictatorship, but also into a humanitarian, institutional and social crisis. That's what the United Nations recognizes, that's what different international organizations recognize... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u60	... and above all, this is what all Venezuelans living there and many Venezuelans here in Spain recognize. We are faced with the largest exodus of Venezuelans known. Because of that dictatorship, 3.3 billion Venezuelans want to leave their country. [[ccccccccc]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u62	It is the first nationality in applications for asylum in Spain in the last three years and I would like to ask the Government - or what is left of it - what it has done about it, where Spain is at the moment or, rather, where Mr Sánchez is and where this Government is which, when we have to talk about Venezuela, does not even come here because perhaps they do not give him the votes or give him the headlines he wanted. When I say that where Mr Sánchez was, I mean, for example, where Mr Sánchez was when Mr Guaidó proclaimed himself Acting President of the Venezuelan Government. I tell you, it was in the snow, in a bucolic landscape and there, far away, calling on the telephone - and we have to understand - Mr Guaidó, president of Venezuela; Mr Guaidó, who with the Venezuelan Constitution in his hand has come to hold that post to lead his country to a transition. But I would also like to know where Mr Sánchez was when we asked from this parliamentary group that Spain join countries like France in suing the International Criminal Court for the abuses to which members of the Venezuelan Government were subjecting the Venezuelan people. Because I wasn't here. Where is Mr Sánchez when we have to talk about what is happening in a brotherly people; a people who need help, a people in which there are political prisoners, in which someone who thinks differently does take it, in which there are tortures; in a people in which there is a lack of freedom. Where's Mr. Sanchez. They've never cared too much, and I'm telling you, they haven't cared too much. We all criticize the figure of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero in Venezuela. I would like to know if any of you have asked your family members - if you have family in Venezuela as I have, as I have said on several occasions, or different colleagues - what do you think of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's role in Venezuela. Do you think it has helped strengthen the transition to democracy in Venezuela? They'd get their hands on their heads. And one of the heritages of the People's Party of Mr Rajoy and Mr Casado, and then with the connivance of Mr Sánchez, has been to put Mr Zapatero there, in Venezuela, to dictate the politics and position of Spain, which is quite shameful. A country that continues to violate human rights, continues to violate the rights of most Venezuelan citizens. [[The Lord]] And I ask: has Mr Zapatero managed, for example, with all his negotiation, to have Venezuela comply with the Venezuelan pensioners we have in Spain? Because Venezuela still doesn't comply. Then in the election campaign will always come to tell the Venezuelans that nothing happens, but so far Mr Zapatero, out of connivance between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, has not even managed to get Venezuela to meet its pensioners. Mr Guaidó sets the date for the entry of humanitarian aid on 23 February and I would like to know where Mr Sánchez is going to be. If you're going to be presenting your book, we should welcome the first sentence of Mr. Sanchez's book. The first sentences say: The most important decision of a ruler is the first decision and this is crucial. I'm sorry if I didn't literally quote it. For this party all the decisions of a ruler are crucial, especially the last. We are facing the end of the crisis in Venezuela. What is Mr Sánchez's position or decision going to be? Is it going to change? Instead of the crucial decisions of his governance being to change mattresses or paint walls... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u64	... will be accompanying a people like that of Venezuela in this transition that they need towards a real democracy? Or will he still be around the corners crying because they're going to take away the Falcon and international politics no longer like him? When talking about Gabon, for example, the European Union looks to France to dictate what the position is; when talking about a country like Venezuela, Europe looks to Spain to lead that position. At the moment Mr Sánchez has abandoned all Venezuelans and has abandoned the position of leader of Spain in the face of the situation in Venezuela. I can assure you that Citizens will not abandon the Venezuelan people, that we will make Spain accompany this people towards a democratic transition and towards a democracy of truth. In conclusion, Mr President, the Government is not only to bring in real decrees; it is to defend human rights everywhere, not by neighborhoods, and it is to accompany fraternal peoples like the Venezuelan to a transition and to a real democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u66	On 11 December 1981, troops trained by the United States killed eight hundred unarmed civilians in the Salvadoran village of El Mozote. When the massacre was known, the US government's head of humanitarian affairs, Elliot Abrams, accused the journalists who revealed it of making communist propaganda and, shortly thereafter, referred to American politics in El Salvador as a fabulous success. Ten years later, Abrams was convicted of illegally selling arms to Iran to finance the paramilitaries in Nicaragua, encouraging a civil war that cost fifty thousand dead. These are things that the Reagan government did, that reference to the ideological renewal of the PP to which Mr. Casado quotes every time he has occasion. Amnesties by Bush, Abrams rejoined the State Department and is considered one of the architects of the illegal invasion of Iraq, a war that has claimed the lives of at least 280,000 civilians. You may wonder what this tour of Mr Abrams's proven trajectory in coups d'état, illegal wars and massive human rights violations is about. The reason is simple. On January 25, two days after Guaidó's self-proclaim, Trump appointed him special envoy of the United States Government for Venezuela. It is he who is in charge of this operation to send humanitarian aid to the border with Colombia, from which the United Nations, the Red Cross and Caritas have been demarcated, because, under international law, humanitarian aid must be governed by the principles of impartiality, independence and neutrality and must in no case be military in character or subordinate to other objectives. If Trump and Abrams wanted to alleviate the enormous suffering of the people of Venezuela, they would not be suffocating it with an oil embargo of 18 billion dollars, which is equivalent, in a country that imports much of the food and medicine it consumes in foreign currency, to a form of modern siege, that is, to use famine as a political weapon. The objective of this operation is not that, but precisely the opposite: to use that suffering as an excuse to subdue the army and justify military intervention. They're using the people as cannon meat, because they won't take power without armed force. The phrase is not mine, it is by Henrique Capriles, presidential candidate of the Venezuelan opposition twice. You have known from the outset that recognizing a government that does not exist, that has no capacity at all to control a radically polarized and divided country is irresponsible and that, in the absence of channels of mediation and peaceful negotiation, the only way that that government will become effective is through military uprising, armed insurrection or foreign invasion. One well imagines why that is the choice of the United States. John Bolton said on television: it is key that American companies start producing oil in Venezuela. Craig Fuller, head of the U.S. Army's Southern Command, has said that there are two ways to solve the problem, either we take it out like Noriega or we take it out like Marcos. He said it yesterday, Donald Trump, openly threatening the Venezuelan Army as information on the mobilization of U.S. troops in Central America follows. The question you should answer here today is why you do it. To the groups in this House I repeat that it cannot be called a Democrat who supports a military coup or a war in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] Here are the results of the operations to defend democracy and human rights in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Yemen, with weapons sold by our own country - what shame on our consciences! - and this Congress that speaks today of humanitarian aid looking elsewhere as the refugees of these wars drown for thousands in the Mediterranean Sea. [[Applauds]] Therefore, today you should explain in this rostrum what you will do if there is a military coup or foreign intervention in Venezuela. Will the Government of Spain support it? And, if you're not going to support it, what's the point of recognizing a non-elected president in a country where there's no real real risk of armed confrontation? It is an irresponsible and erroneous decision, because there was an alternative: to support the Governments of Mexico and Uruguay in contributing to a peaceful resolution of the conflict. [[Applauds]] If that is not our place in the world, if that is not the place of Spain and Europe, I do not know what it is. If I know where that place isn't: next to Trump or Bolsonaro supporting a military operation to overthrow a government by force, as the Spanish right is jealous. Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party should be asked: You, who every day insult half the members of this House and therefore the millions of Spaniards we represent, humiliating Spanish democracy and the memory of those who made it possible, are you going to support a military coup in Venezuela? Is that what you're asking? To Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Group, whom I have never heard a word or an assessment of the Iraq war, I would ask you: Are you going to support an illegal military intervention by the United States? Out of respect for the Spanish people, you should clarify it here, in this rostrum. There is a historical thread that leads to the Spanish right of the Azores to Columbus, a thread that makes them face all political conflicts in the same way: denying their opponents, criminalizing all forms of mediation or dialogue, radicalizing them in an irresponsible way to obtain political revenues. Fifteen years ago, Spanish society stopped Mr Aznar's feet; he was right and will do so again. The spokesman of the People's Party has had the elegance to dedicate myself to a quote from Burke and I will correspond to another from the great American philosopher John Dewey: Ideas are measured in their effects. Gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of Citizens, also to the Government of Spain, the consequences of what they are supporting these days are going to haunt them forever. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Bustinduy. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The canaries have shrinked our hearts. Venezuela is on the verge of a civil war. In Venezuela, more than a hundred thousand canaries, Galicians and Basques live who made their lives and had a chance there and we believe that the government took a long time to react, that at first, perhaps because I don't know what, it came up with a profile, but I think that at this point it does what it has to do. What is important is not the position of Spain; the strength and importance of the European Commission's foreign policy must be the one that must be and Spain must lead it because, moreover, it is the one that knows its reality. I believe, Mr Socialists, that you should ask your Government to report on state policies when responsibility is called for. I have lived the parliamentary experience with two Presidents of the Government, two Vice-Presidents and many parliamentary spokespersons and we have always been called to political forces and, above all, to the Canary Coalition, because we have information from there. We have to contrast and measure the steps, so I ask you to have loyalty to both sides. I want to say that in the terms in which your Canarian Coalition initiative is in place, it will support them. I believe that it could have been improved, not by substitution, but by incorporation of some of the parties. Look at what I am going to say, I, that I am anti-Podemos, especially as far as Venezuela is concerned, believe that the proposal that we are making Podemos has an interesting part, not of substitution but of incorporation. It would be a shame if we did not agree today to urge that there should be no foreign military intervention in Venezuela, because that will not solve anything, that means a river of blood and misfortune for a country we need. This country of ours, Spain, and all political forces, we need to convince Europe and also the international community that Venezuela deserves an opportunity as a people and as a country. In this regard, Coalition Canaria, will be at the side of the Government, even if the Government does not call us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, in a demonstration in support of Guaidó, in the Puerta del Sol, one of Venezuela's newly arrived interveners, he told us to those we were summoned there: Spanish friends, we came from the future. The truth is that what he wanted to tell us was warning us of the cost of neglecting democratic institutions, not of anything else, but also of the enchantment in which a society can fall by embracing extreme left policies or extreme left ideas without valuing, as Mr Bustinduy would say, their effects. It is true that democracy is the least bad of political models, no doubt, but it is not the natural model of all societies: there are, like Spain, who enjoy a democratic system that is homologable to the best; there are those who have never enjoyed it and there are, like Venezuela, who have experienced it and have simply lost it. As Thomas Jefferson recalled, the price of freedom is his eternal vigilance. We are going to support this initiative because we want Venezuelans to be able to eat three times a day, to live without fear in their own country, to speak freely, to exercise all their political rights without risk to be arrested, to receive humanitarian aid - of course, yes - to return to their country - 10% of Venezuelans are out today, which is as if almost 5 million Spaniards were - and, finally, they can also enjoy with equity the resources of one of the richest countries in the world, that the policies of the extreme left and the dictatorial management of President Maduro have brought it to ruin. In short, ladies and gentlemen, that Venezuelans can return to the democratic normality that should never have taken them away. We will therefore vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now that the legislature was over, we couldn't finish it without a classic: Venezuela. The truth is that Venezuela gives a lot of time: it gives for the representative of the Union of the Navarro People to quote Thomas Jefferson who, among other things, was an independentist against British colonialism; it gives for someone to speak of 3,300 million Venezuelans who want to exile. If it were 3300 or 3100, the interference could be done by them and not be subjected to it, which is what happens. It also gives for the deputy of the People's Party to tell us that he defines himself as a senseless deputy. I wouldn't be so harsh on you, not on your own; if you were, ineffective, because if you've been trying to end the Bolivarian government since 2002, your success is precarious. We support the resolution of the Uruguay Conference. From Eukal Herria Bildu we believe that we must denounce the coup d'état, because it is nothing but a coup d'état that Guaidó tried to launch with the help of the United States. We renounce and reject U.S. 'injerencism' and also believe that, behind U.S. imperialism, there can only be the threat of a civil war to which we will firmly oppose. There was also talk of how there were countries that had to watch over others: there was talk of France with Gabon; there was talk of Spain with Venezuela, and with Haiti? As they say on social networks, cry, cry, cry, because nobody cares. We are also told that what a tragedy Mr Pons and three other comrades of the People's Party have been expelled from Venezuela. When dozens of public offices of the Spanish State are expelled from the Rif by Morocco or the Palestinians from Gaza by the Israelis, absolute silence on the part of their lords. It seems that international observers are good in Venezuela, but they are harmful and persecutable in the Spanish State when it comes to Catalonia. I'll finish with a question. Mr. Sánchez, the president of the government, gave Maduro eight days as an ultimatum to resign and call elections. It didn't go very well, because Maduro is still there and it was Mr. Sánchez who called for elections. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the text, and it is on record that we vote for the text and not for speeches, because sometimes speeches do not get very much married, in which there is even a mix of Spanish policy, government and government allies. We voted for the literality of the text, because there was an illegitimate, non-free and secure election of Maduro, because several highly competitive candidates were marginalized in those elections, because in January 2016 the Venezuelan government irregularly appointed several Supreme Court judges who were key in some subsequent decisions and also because in January 2016 it was impossible for four deputies of the Amazon State to join the National Assembly in order not to allow the strengthened majority that would have allowed some decisions by Parliament. The points raised by the People's Party are therefore true. To be honest, we must also move that the status of temporary protection does not exist, which is a creation of the proposing group. We support the spirit of what this last point of protection of Venezuelans proposes, but we also support contact groups. Mr García Hernández, contact groups are always good, dialogues are always good, those who want to find a solution are always good and those who want to block are bad. Finally, this is a complex conflict that does not require speeches on the mattress of the President of the Government, as if this were a morning audience of some television; this is a complex conflict when it appeals to the effective control of the territory by two actors, because this can cause a civil confrontation and because, certainly, we are against any kind of foreign intervention, and here not all have said the same about the rejection of any kind of foreign intervention. Some have proposed - and with this I will finish immediately, Mr President - a group of Ibero-American academics, that in order to resolve things right now it would be best to consult Venezuelans through a free referendum. Well, look, referendums are always a good solution and this is a contribution that we too make to this debate. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The truth is that my opinion on this document that you are presenting would be defined in three words: late, early and dangerous. And I'll explain myself. Why late? Even though they presented it on January 24, what are they asking for, what does this mean? This is something that has already happened, because recognizing Guaidó, president of the National Assembly, as interim president has already done so by the Spanish Government and already done so by the president of the Government named him president-in-charge. With regard to leading in the European Union the recognition of Juan Guaidó as interim president, Spain is one of the countries that formed a group within the European Union and is leading in that direction; as are other countries that are also key as Holland can be in this whole matter, because of the proximity of their territories, Spain is obviously a reference for the European Union. Support a brotherly country in a democratic transition process that will lead them to regain respect for human rights, of course. But, in fact, what does what you are asking us to vote on here today, something that has already happened and that has already been done? At the same time he'll be here soon. Why do I say soon? Because I think we have to wait for events to happen, if they happen. Everyone is waiting for something to happen this Saturday or this weekend, or perhaps not, but I think we should be aware of what is happening in Venezuela itself and at the borders to know what happens next. Of course, elections must be convened in Venezuela, and free elections must be held, and of course the imprisoned political prisoners must be freed; that is not done with Catalans, but there, in Venezuela, yes. Yes, I agree that Venezuelan political prisoners are on the street and I also believe that this provisional prison of Catalans makes no sense. Beyond all that and leading the European group, I do not think we can deny, as if such, the initiative of Mexico and Uruguay, which are two important countries. Neither at this time nor in the future should we simply follow American policy. I believe that Mr Maduro's greatest ally is precisely the President of the United States of America every time he makes statements; in the tone he makes them and with the measures he proposes, all he does is strengthen him. So, yes, the regime has to change and we say so. It is not legitimate even with Venezuelan constitutional standards and it has to change. Elections must be called that must be free and that political prisoners must be freed. But, with the importance that the Spanish State has, looking towards Latin America, what we should never do is to fix our internal cots on the basis of foreign policy. In the end it is giving me that feeling not only because we are going to discuss it today, but because the President of the Government is going to have to come next week and we will talk about Venezuela again; maybe some things have happened by then or not, but we will discuss all this again. I think we are all concerned about Venezuela, but there is also a point of internal policy and the use of foreign policy for fighting and fighting within this House. We have already seen it in the speech of the representative of Citizens: everything was that we were late, where is Sánchez?, etc. The third adjective I put to the proposal was dangerous. Why do I say dangerous? I do not know what will be the text that will be put to the vote at the end and, depending on what it is, we will choose to vote in favour, abstain or vote negatively, but there is a risk here. When Mr Guaidó has already been recognised as President-in-Charge, when he is already leading the European Union, when he is already committed to a democratic transition process and is called for elections, you run the risk of losing a vote in the Chamber of Congress. That would be sending a very bad signal. I hope that they will fix it and come to a text that can ultimately be voted in favour mostly, even unanimously, but that is what these things have. When this ammunition is also used as an internal policy and, moreover, at certain times, it can do more harm than good to those we all want to help. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to send a strong hug to Mr Jordi Turull and Mr Raül Romeva, who are now declaring, on behalf of all of us, in the judgment of shame. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last plenary session of this Parliament could not fail to have a GNP on Venezuela. In this case, the People's Parliamentary Group urges the PSOE Government to recognize a self-proclaimed president in another country. We will make some clarifications on this. One, where is the non-interference in internal affairs of another country? Or does that only happen when from abroad other governments are positioned in front of human rights abuses in Catalonia? Two, Juan Guaidó was elected deputy with 97,492 votes in 2016 by the small state of La Guaira. Venezuela has 32,734,980 inhabitants, or 0.29%. Is it intended to recognise as president of a foreign country someone with this representativeness, when here in Spain, it is considered insufficient for a negotiation of 48% of the Catalan population? Three, Juan Guaidó was until a few days ago an absolute stranger to the Venezuelan people and the rest of the world, but not to the CIA. In 2005 he was one of five student leaders who traveled to Belgrade to start training for violent protests and insurrections. In 2007 he was received at the Andrés Bello Catholic University of Caracas and immediately moved to Washington to enroll in the governance and political management program at George Washington University, under the supervision of Luis Enrique Berrizbeitia, former Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund and one of the leading neoliberal economists in Latin America. It is part of the founding group of the 2007 generation, whose aim was to force the Venezuelan government to react with repression to create an international event. It is the product of more than a decade of assiduous preparation by the United States Government, cultivated to undermine and destabilize the country and one day take power. It was selected by finger and prepared for that purpose. On January 5, 2019, he became President of the National Assembly in circumstances that are not yet clear; in fact, the presidency legally belonged to Juan Andrés Mejía, and a few days later he self-proclaimed himself in a public place as President-in-Charge. All this information, which is completely verifiable, is that which the Foreign Minister, Josep Borrell, should have submitted to the Government, rather than worrying so much about trying to clean up the black legend that about Spain was created in the face of the trial of the trial. Four, among political leaders and specialized press like the one we have here, are supposed to know the basic principles of what is humanitarian aid in international law, justified by natural catastrophe or armed war that hinders the transfer of people and goods, assistance governed by impartiality, independence and neutrality of political, economic and military objectives. The supposed humanitarian aid they want to sell us today, as the famous weapons of mass destruction sold us, is just another pretext for the offensive escalation trying to introduce them by Cúcuta, Colombia, where the needs of the poorest population of that city are far superior to those of the Venezuelans themselves to whom it is supposed to be addressed. More undernourished children, more families in extreme poverty who look with astonishment at how dozens of containers with food and medicine are trying to leave for Venezuela while their situation remains terribly precarious. Moreover, from the quantitative point of view, it is ridiculous, it is planned for about three hundred thousand people, being the total population of almost thirty-three million inhabitants. Rather, it is being used as a pretext to dismantle an alleged inhuman feature of the Venezuelan Government. Well, gringos and their lackeys, who don't know what dignity means to our peoples. [[Applauds]] As a Latin American and anti-imperialist, I really hope that this motion will not be approved, because it will help support the beginning of a war that the United States has already prepared, according to the latest movements of U.S. military forces placed in countries of South America and the Caribbean. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Limones has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group, send a fraternal greeting to all the representatives of the Venezuelan opposition who are accompanying us today in the rostrum and also to express our revulsion and denunciation of the treatment received by the delegation of European Parliamentarians by the Venezuelan authorities. Mr García Hernández, I want to say to you that your initiative is bad, late and never. Yes, because that's usually the case, any resemblance to your original initiative after the self-amendment is pure coincidence. However, I am already telling you that the Socialist Group is going to support you, because it is going to support any initiative that has anything to do with looking for Venezuelans to own their own destiny. But it's going to allow me three considerations. First of all: look, after listening to you and the spokesman for the Citizens' Group, any initiative you take in relation to Venezuela is not really to defend Venezuela and the Venezuelans, but to go against the president of the Government of Spain, to undermine his image. [[Applauds]] And I don't know why now, because the president of the government has already called elections. By the way, they campaigned both partners saying that the president of the Spanish government had a hidden plan with the independence groups to approve the budgets and remain in power. In the end, it has turned out that the independence groups have agreed with you to say no to the budgets and with that also to call the elections; that is the difference. Look at you, your members of the Citizens' Group and the independence groups, only Vox is missing and this would have been spectacular. Second consideration I wanted to express to you. The president of Spain is where he had to be: defending the interests of Spain and the Spanish and also defending the people of Venezuela. Where? Leading the majority of the European Union and the majority of the Ibero-American countries in a common position that responds to a transition and the call for free elections, recognizing Juan Guaidó as interim president to call those elections and marking a humanitarian aid plan for Venezuela. But we will never follow America, as you claim, as your citizens' partners and the other partner who is not here claim. No, because the last time we followed America was with José María Aznar as president, and we went to an illegal, illegitimate, unjust war, which has written one of the saddest, blackest and most immoral pages of our recent history. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we want Venezuela free but without military intervention and without guardianship; Venezuela free, Mr García Hernández. Finally, let me talk about your latest amendments. In seven years they have done nothing about Venezuelans in Spain; we in seven months have recognized three times as many asylum applications, but we have also initiated temporary permits for humanitarian reasons for all Venezuelans. That's what we've done, give solutions. You had 27,000 files paralyzed, but you were suffocating in favor of Venezuela. We must be part of the solution and not just part of the problems. By the way, I ask the gentlemen of the People's Group to really return to what is centrality, to the common reason, to be a party of state, to support the Government in international relations, it is not going to be that now that spring comes we have to create a brotherhood whose title is San Mariano Rajoy to process it and ask it to return the People's Party to serenity, centrality and moderation. Gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, a few days ago there was a concentration at the Puerta del Sol where its president participated. For the first time they were representatives of the Vox Group. I do not know what they would do there; I suppose it would be to claim the great Spanish empire in the Americas or simply that they are already going together everywhere. But let me tell you something: Venezuela is a host country, there are people who have gone to seek their lives but also, fundamentally, exiled from the Civil War. There they were socialists, communists, republicans, logically belonging to Christian democracy and also liberals - also liberals - but none of those government partners that you have at the Andalusian Junta and with which you take pictures in the Plaza de Colón, of which it was none, those all stayed here. Keep that in mind, those aren't the friends to follow. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party was born 140 years ago and did so to go against any kind of injustice in the world. We have had better and worse times, we have ruled, we have lost and we have won, we have pursued situations of war, unjust situations of all kinds, but we have never renounced our principles, never; our principles of seeking and fighting for equality, for freedom and for the dignity of all people. That is why we are here today, beyond our domestic struggles, defending Venezuela, the Venezuelans, so that they can decide a destination for their country and their future. Therefore, from here I want to send a message to all Venezuelans and Venezuelans, to our brothers, to tell them that we are not going to give up, we are going to work for being part of the solution, we are not only going to denounce what is happening. That is easier, to regret, to say the obvious, the common sense; we are going to work to give possible solutions to the situation in Venezuela. Finally, and I conclude, to our Venezuelan brothers, I would like to transmit from here, on behalf of each and every one of the Spaniards, that we would like to be able each of us to take a piece of our heart and put it in the hands of each and every one of our Venezuelan brothers to tell them how much we love them and how close we feel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u81	At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask Mr García Hernández whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u82	We appreciate the contributions, but with the amendment we have made we do not accept any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u83	All right. We shall take this into account for the vote. Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO ERRADICING PROSTITUTION AND TREATMENT OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN FOR SEXUAL EXPLOITATION. [[File number 162/000904]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u84	We turn to the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the eradication of prostitution and trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u85	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I defend this non-law proposal to eradicate prostitution and trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation, knowing that the Socialist Government was working intensively - as you all know - to present a legislative proposal in this area and that it has not had time for its submission. From here, I want to convey to the feminist movement and to the women's associations that are concerned and busy in this matter, that our commitment is intact because intact follows our commitment to equality. Sexual exploitation and prostitution are part of the same structure of violence and domination, which has its roots in structural inequality between men and women. In the sexual exploitation of women and trafficking, terrible phenomena such as the feminization of poverty, sexualized racism and the continued demand of women for the prostitution market are colliding. Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation is one of the most terrible businesses in the world, if not the largest. According to data from the United Nations and the European Union, women and girls account for 71% of the victims of trafficking detected worldwide and 80% of those identified in Western Europe; 95% of them end up exploited for prostitution. Trafficking and sexual exploitation are the most terrible face - as I told you before - of violence against women. It is not possible for a country on an equal footing as long as we live in normal conditions with human rights violations on roads, parks, polygons and floors. [[Applauds]] How we will seek to eradicate a problem, such as trafficking in women for sexual exploitation, without going to the root that originates it, which is the demand of these women for their sexual exploitation. Any successful political initiative to combat the sexual exploitation of women should have as its main objective to reduce the demand for women. In Spain one every three men admit to having consumed prostitution. How does this reality impact the configuration of relations between men and women? Could we really think about building a truly equal society, as long as men can access a woman's body for a lot of money? No, no, Clearly the exploitation of women is incompatible with an egalitarian society; at least that's what I created my group, at least that's what the Socialist Party believes. No one seems to believe that these phenomena are alien to patriarchy. The European Parliament resolution of 26 February 2014 on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality ensures that forced or non-forced prostitution constitutes violations of human dignity contrary to human rights principles. It also notes that considering prostitution as legal sex work, decriminalizing the sex industry in general and legalizing pimping is not the solution to protect women from violence and exploitation, but rather the opposite effect. There are many studies and experiences in other countries that indicate that where prostitution has been regularized, trafficking has increased. We therefore believe that any legislation that wants to combat trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation effectively must take these factors into account. We demand and work to implement public policies aimed at combating trafficking, prosecuting pimps, eliminating demand and facilitating the comprehensive recovery of victims. We know that the necessary legislative changes are very complex, as we talk about fighting organized crime and changing machista cultural patterns while requiring comprehensive protection and recovery of victims. Spain, which is one of the transit countries but also of the final destination of trafficking, needs to make a determined bet to address this reality. We need legislation that provides adequate public resources for the recovery of women and ensures their safety. We know that there is a debate that, as you know as well as I do, has decades and that there are nuances around this issue, but this is the position that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has always defended: to identify the exploitation of women as an extreme form of violence and the demand for prostitution as the cause of trafficking. [[Applauds]] Phrases like 'we can't deny reality' or 'it's a reality we can't avoid' or 'we won't be able to change it' are not valid arguments for people who have come to politics to change things. No one has said it will be easy, but socialists will find us on the road to equality and social justice, and yes, building a society where selling or renting women's bodies is not acceptable. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Reyes Rivera is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what little respect you have for women. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u88	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u89	Many of us are already truly tired of them all day giving us lessons in morality and so-called feminism. [[Applauds]] All I see in you is absolute hypocrisy. Safe success, that is prostitution for the Minister of Justice of her Government, a minister who praises the work of a pimp. You've heard all of Spain, who are you trying to fool? Put your hypocrisy aside and stop disguise your sectarianism of feminism, because it no longer hangs. They say here that they intend to abolish prostitution in the name of the feminist movement; the usual. Who embodies the feminist movement? Carmen Calvo, Adriana Lastra? Well, look, no; there are many feminists that we don't think like you and that we don't think that banning everything is the solution, to start with, because it can't be and, to end with, because some of us respect women's freedom. So beware of the fact that the Socialist Party is not the feminist movement; you do not represent all Spanish women. Moreover, if I may, I believe that each time, and today, they represent less. [[Applauds]] Please explain to me what measures you propose here to abolish prostitution, because there is not a single measure; all the measures you have included are against trafficking. And what have they done? Take measures 189 and 190 of the State Pact. Why are you bringing here something that's already approved? They bring him in to confuse, adding the vest that they want to abolish prostitution. Well, if you want to, at least be brave and pose some measure in this sense, because, I repeat, there is not one in this proposition not of law. The only thing they've come here has been to let go of their election rally. And you know what happens? Let these little games indignant some of us. You know why? Because in September 2017 a state pact was adopted that should be in place and neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party has. You have made it quite clear that this is not your priority. Let us remember what the Socialist Party government has done. They began by trying to put together an amendment on the processing of budgets, something that was not right. What bill did they choose? A proposed law against macho violence to further slow down the procedure and put obstacles in place. Then they bring us a royal decree. And how many measures does it include? Just three out of 214 measures the pact has. We have had to introduce countless amendments to that bill, which has made its handling much more complicated. Do you know what the result is? That this law isn't going to come out, it's not going to pass. You leave the government, socialist ladies and gentlemen, without launching the state pact against macho violence. This is the one and pure reality. Moreover, they know very well that all parliamentary groups agreed that a law against trafficking should be introduced; it had to be brought by the Government. Where is he? Didn't this law seem urgent to you? They are women enslaved in the twenty-first century, women who suffer the cruelest expression of macho violence. I say it's urgent. They've had almost nine months. Wasn't that Ministry of Equality of Mrs. Calvo so important? She was supposed to be entertained with Torra, rapporteurs and independenceists. Those were his priorities, not this one. [[Applauds]] Of course, behind a lot of prostitution there's trafficking. Let us really fight against these mafias and promote socio-occupational inclusion measures for these women. I repeat, why haven't you brought the law here? Because he hasn't given them the urge, that simple. And since they mention the abolition of prostitution, let's talk about it too. They do not begin if they make an incorrect diagnosis: whether we like it or not, not all prostitution is forced prostitution of women and girls. That is what you say in this initiative. What's going on? So they deny male prostitution? Doesn't it exist? Because I think everyone knows it does. Do you deny that there are women who claim to exercise it freely? Make a memory. Do you remember those women who tried to score a goal for you, as they said, sex workers who wanted to form a union and those who didn't even deserve to listen? Don't those women have the right to be heard? Don't you have a right? Are there fewer people for you? It is good enough to stigmatize women in the name of feminism. [[Applauds]] Feminism cannot be done without listening to women and, above all, feminism cannot be done without respecting our freedom. 21st century feminism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, do you believe that abolition really involves the disappearance of prostitution? Do you know what has happened in countries that have opted for abolitionism? That prostitution is still there, and the only thing that happens is that women who exercise prostitution, forced or not, are placed in a situation of greater vulnerability; and I do not say this, entities such as Amnesty International say so. [[Rumors]] This is a very serious debate, not five minutes for the PSOE camper. I'm done, but let me give you some advice. If you really want to abolish prostitution, start by banning it at home and, if you don't get it, at least have the detail of paying for visits to brothels with your money and not with citizens' money. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u90	Let's wrap it up, Mrs. Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u91	32 000 euros were spent on black cards, money from all Andalusians, so please... [[shows a news story.- Mrs. Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u92	Mrs. Alvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u93	...stop being hypocritical, giving us lessons and taking our hair off. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.- Mrs Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes Rivera. Mrs Alvarez, you are not speaking. [[Mrs. Álvarez Álvarez: I know.]] I know you do, but if you do, you also know what you have to do. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u95	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that I rise to this sad rostrum today, and I think it is not fair to be sad before 8 March, and I think it is also not right to be sad today more than other times because we have dealt here with vital issues for citizens and we have fought against a wall and it has been frustrating, and also because other times we have managed to prove that we can and do make sense to be here and we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage to EUR 900. Who was going to tell me that after all the feminist work, with discussions and even with anger, that work that has been done in this House, which we have been critical of many times because we are in politics not to put patches, but to point out the horizon, fast, running, without wanting to understand ourselves and with the most inane thing that we have in this House, which is a non-law proposal, and more when we have a legislature that is extinguished, it is going to be used in this way to those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability, people in a situation of trafficking for the purposes of sexual exploitation? Sorry, sorry, it doesn't get in my head. With all the work we have done, I do not understand that an attempt is now being made to use a transnational crime and a very serious violation of human rights which is predominantly committed by women and girls for the purposes - I shall say - of partisans. I do not understand it, because, however, sexual violence remained outside the state pact, because there has been an indolence accused of the break-in of brothels and brothels in this country. Do you want us to think that there is hypocrisy in the Socialist Party's commitment to this issue? Here what is proposed in the operative part has to do in a lax way like this only with trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation. If they wanted to bring in a non-prostitution bill, they might have brought in a non-prostitution bill. I want to say that the wording does not do justice to the work of the Socialist Group in this House, with whom I have had enough to disagree, but to whom I have also seen prioritise to reach agreements, or to the work that the Government has done, which has of course been less than we would like. Now, after two years of kidnapping from the legislature, the People's Party is trying to score medallions. It is a good thing that some of us have memories, that we already know that many Members and Senators of the People's Party do not have them. We don't understand. We have been critical of the state pact, and yet I will invoke the spirit of the state pact, that of making politics and not partyism. And I wanted to say this because, even if we are accused otherwise, my parliamentary group has never distributed feminism cards. Moreover, what more would one want than to have so much feminism in this House that we were debating all day long. But imposing, not listening and losing the opportunity to unanimously shield what is a consensus by obviating the common, that, says Lastra, is the opposite of feminism. I'm not going to congratulate you, because you're not innovating anything with this. [[Applauds]] In fact, this is what happens every day in this House and this is what we come here to challenge. When feminism is instrumentalized because it gives a good image but there is no real commitment to the rights of all women, we can support concrete measures, but we disagree as a whole, because we believe that one woman cannot be left behind. Where's the 'if we get one, we get all'? Can you tell me where he is? Because that's what feminism is about. We defend a feminism in which we all fit, and we all are. We cannot leave behind those who are most vulnerable. Now you're going to solve a complex problem by bringing a non-law proposition into the discount time to make people believe that we're doing something we don't actually do? Of his non-law proposal we agree with points 1 and 2, with many nuances, that is, and we add a point 3 that has to do with a public policy deployment, because it is very good about the laws, and we argue that this has to do with the collective imagination, but since we do not see resources in the substitutions it looks good in the books, but it does not look good in the lives, and neither have we been accepted in the amendment. [[Applauds]] But there are also some consequences in your proposal, because they do not comply with the directive in its article 8, because they apply to victims of trafficking and potential victims of different administrative sanctions today, and this non-law proposal makes it invisible. I'm on it. Victims or potential victims of trafficking are being returned to their countries of origin or placed in an IEC, and this non-law proposal does nothing about it. What we are saying is that we have to comply with what is provided for in the directive. This proposal does not guarantee the establishment of the necessary measures for the reparation of victims of trafficking in the light of their circumstances, it does not have specific measures for minors, much less unaccompanied minors, it does not have comprehensive training. It won't give me time to tell you everything you don't have, but you know what? That all that has it in this book that was made in the year 2015 We were not, but we know how to read. [[shows a book]] And this non-law proposal does not bring anything about it. What they would have to bring is a law, and they have not brought it, and they also mix things in the explanatory statement, and put to mix it is not worth talking in the name of abolitionism when it is in favor of prohibitive measures. The abolition of prostitution as a horizon has nothing to do with prohibiting or implementing punitive measures or sanctions. That is why we are against the law, and the outgoing Government has done nothing about it. [[Applauds]] I would like to close for a moment, if I may, the Presidency, with what is to come; what is to come is an 8th March promoted and defended by all the women of the feminist movement, each and every one of them and, moreover, followed by all those who believe that our citizenship, that of women, is not yet full of rights. In addition, there is also noise and this GNP is very little aware of the noise that is there and that is stalking. It's a shame that lack of responsibility. Look, Mrs. Lastra, do you know who I'm thinking about? Mary Beard, who says two things. One, that the power structure is encoded in a masculine way. But he says something else, he says that precisely thinking power from another way has to do with forgetting this from public prestige. I don't want so many powerful women, I want power to be collective; collective power we see on every street, every month, every moment, on March 8. The power of the 'brother, I do believe you' and of also supporting the Argentine sisters for their right to abortion. The power to share struggles and to give us no matter what faces or acronyms appear in the photo, because nominal history is also a trap; history we make among all. Democracy has been brought by the popular mobilization and in the popular mobilization who have been the bodies of all the women who have fought for it. It is up to us to make feminism with all these women, with all of them; listening to them, to all of them. All, Mrs Lastra, in this House - yes, it would have been a detail - but especially out there. The legislature ends and 8 March comes, and every day it will remain 8 March. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. There are people who dare to say here that democracy comes after popular mobilizations and that feminism has political color, party and ideology. In this country women who are here, such as Ángeles Álvarez and comrades of all parties, have fought for women's rights for many years. In 2003 the Parliament of the Canary Islands - the only one, fifteen years ago - already defined the Law on the Prevention and Comprehensive Protection of Women against Gender Violence as one of the forms of gender-based violence specifically trafficking in women and girls, which took almost fifteen years at the national level. I think it's timely. This is not a matter of political opportunism; this is a feeling at a time, in the last plenary session of this Congress, in which once again all women in a cross-cutting way, in a political way, we have to say enough now and we have to know that trafficking in women and girls is not only a reality in this country but also that there are certain issues that are not yet covered by the Criminal Code relating to new technologies, with facts that are not child pornography but sexual exploitation. I think it is good because some will go away and others will come, and today we debate it, today we support it and we continue to fight the women of this country for all the women of this country, regardless of the political colour, regardless of the community where we are and regardless of age. Here democracy made it people who were in prison, who fought, of all political colors and feminism in this country has been a flag for many years. [[Rumors]] And let's move on. As we fought Ángeles Álvarez, I and the ladies of the People's Party, who in the end had to eat it, so that last year there were 200 million in the budgets for the fight against gender violence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to celebrate 8 March and, above all, we are going to have political consensus. With that political attack you are politicizing because you did not present it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the speakers to speak. Those are the rules of the debate and you know them. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. One of lime and one of sand. On the one hand, it is wrong, not only on the part of the Socialist Party, but also on the part of all the big parties that are trying to make partisanship with the state pact that we have made among all of us and that has cost us a great deal. Therefore, partying, wrong. Even so, Angels - we already know each other a lot - numbers and figures are overwhelming. There are 2.5 million victims of trafficking, 80 per cent of whom are victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. But that is only the tip of the iceberg, because it is estimated that for each victim of trafficking we have detected there are twenty more victims that we have not detected. We are therefore talking about around 50 million victims of trafficking, of which 40 million are victims of trafficking due to sexual exploitation and 80 % are women. In short, this is a problem of patriarchy. With all this data, we don't understand how we're discussing it. As democrats and human rights defenders, it should be an obligation to do something to end this. Moreover, with all this data, we should ask ourselves what is the model of sexuality we are building and whether sexual consent can really be bought in an egalitarian society and, if it can be bought, in exchange for what, money?, freedom? survival? Can you really buy sexual consent? Mrs Patricia, only 5% of women in prostitution recognize, and it would not be easy to see under what conditions, who do so of their own free will. Only 5%. We are the third state in the world in prostitution, behind Thailand and behind Puerto Rico. This doesn't leave us in a good situation. And there are still 40 million people in situations of sexual exploitation. Therefore, as feminists, as democrats and as human rights defenders, we must legislate for that 95% that they are exploited and we must do so as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. The majority of the arguments that this subject has brought today to a small GNP have given rise to a whole debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mrs Lastra, I think you are aware that it was not the best way to address this issue, as we have warned you. This issue needs to be addressed, but they have not chosen the best time or the best way. You have played a game that is not excessively clean, and I don't think we are now to play hide and seek with this theme. Trafficking and prostitution are two very serious issues, and I know you agree that they are. If the GNP that you have presented is against trafficking, it does not raise anything concrete to combat it, beyond some issue that we all share. Trafficking, as such, has its inclusion in the Criminal Code, it is a crime, and we all agree that there is nothing more abhorrent than those we are and have worked on equality in the Commission, and you know it perfectly well. We have no problem, at least my group, with the two points that you put on the operative side - I would miss more!-: an integral law against trafficking - of course it is; the question is why it is not already - and make an assessment of the comprehensive plan to combat trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. So far, no problem. But if the GNP is against prostitution, I go back to what I said at the beginning: it is not the best way to deal with this with a refilon GNP. Why? Because this issue has not been discussed in depth, seriously, looking at it from the front. It is not because my group has not warned on more than one occasion, both in this rostrum and in the Commission. We have always rubbed the issue from angles that touch it, but that do not address it: trafficking, gender-based violence, labour exploitation, female poverty, immigration. Whenever we got to the area, we'd go back. Why have you left this issue for the last minute of the parliamentary term, Socialist Party gentlemen, by means of a GNP trap? In addition, let me tell you, and do not be offended, that we believe that it is a cowardly proposition because it hides, does not dare and I believe that, although we are in campaign, if they are on the electoral agenda they are brought from the minute one because you cannot leave this issue so serious and so deep for the last minute. I have no doubt - and it has already been said by others - that the relationship, many times certain, of cause-consequence between trafficking and prostitution is direct, it is direct!, of course it is. The prostitution of women forced into it, with the kidnapped will and as a deception of a miserable life that becomes miserable is an unquestionable reality and we have talked about this and we have agreed. What we have not talked about is what we do with prostitution as an existing reality, regardless of what everyone thinks. What do we do about trafficking in sexual exploitation? We have not debated or reflected. There are different views on regulation, on prohibition, on abolition, but you know that there are issues that need to be put on the table and no action has been proposed for this. Why are you doing this, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? It's self-deception. Is that a way to reassure your conscience? His text speaks of trafficking, and we agree with what he says. So, they don't want to do-say what they don't say. It is a kind of contradiction because if you want me to say what you don't say, propose measures directly related to abolition, if that's what you're looking for, and I'll agree to bring and deal with this issue, but what you can't do is put in small print the goal of abolishing prostitution and then, on the central issue of the proposal side, say nothing about abolition. Why do they do that? It is a kind of juggling game for the word abolition to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions of this House but then nothing else is done. I believe that this issue, for the sake of everyone, and especially for those who are in the desperate and forced situation of having to resort involuntarily or voluntarily to prostitution, is much more serious than dealing with it through a GNP, which also does not say what it means or what it means. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u103	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. It is a pity that such an important and transcendental issue, such as trafficking in women and girls, is brought to this House as a non-legislative proposal. It is noted that we are in an election campaign, what a pity! Trafficking in human beings is one of the most flagrant crimes and attacks on human rights, one of the most lucrative and widespread businesses in the world, which perpetuates forced labour, exploitation, labour and sexual slavery, organ trafficking, forced marriages or begging. According to the European Institute for the Control and Prevention of Crime, every year around 500,000 people are victims of illegal trafficking and 98% are women and girls. The International Labour Organization estimates that we are talking about a total of 21 million people who are victims of slavery and exploitation and Spain is one of the main destinations in the world of human trafficking. It is estimated that the majority of the victims are young women, aged between eighteen and twenty-five, and come from different States around the world, such as Brazil, Nigeria, Romania or China. Republican Left demands that the National and Local Security Corps fight organized crime and not criminalize the victims, who are the most defenceless people. It is necessary to remember that these criminal organizations are often linked to the extreme right, as in the Valencian country with Spain 2000 or Madrid Social Home. Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation constitutes a grave violation of article 4 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that no one shall be subjected to slavery or servitude. Slavery and the slave trade are prohibited in all its forms. It is therefore one of the most terrible forms of violence against women, which undermines their dignity, impedes their development as women and traumatizes their lives. To end this human rights violation, we still have a long way to go. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mrs Quintanilla Barba has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I take the floor to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have listened carefully to each of the speakers who have taken the floor, and the truth is that I feel rather sad during this debate. I am rather sad because, when it comes to trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, in Spain they are mostly women, girls and boys; we are talking about 300,000 victims. At the moment we have in Spain 10 111 women and girls on the street at risk of being victims of sexual exploitation and we are talking about flags of feminism, of the left, of ideologies, when what we really need to talk about is human rights. What we need to talk about is what the various governments that have ruled Spain have done to work against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Moreover, let us not forget that, behind all this debate, there are traffickers - sixty-six criminal organizations in Spain - turning our country into a country of sex tourism, the third country in the world. Therefore, this afternoon what we need to talk about is what we have worked to combat trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. The non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in its Petitum calls for an integral law against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, in order to comply with the State Pact, a State Pact that is not of anyone, which is of the men and women who were in favour of that State Pact. In addition, President Rajoy, at the Conference of Autonomous Presidents, spoke of a great agreement for the fight against gender-based violence suffered by women. Trafficking is rape, trafficking is poverty, trafficking is illegal immigration, trafficking is the most terrible humiliation a human being can suffer. Therefore, we are talking about a comprehensive law that Minister Montserrat, who is our spokesperson today, has already agreed with the groups. Mrs Alvarez, do you remember the subcommittee that was born in the Equality Commission that I chaired and that you were the spokesman for? At that time we already agreed on the drafting of a comprehensive law against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Throughout all these years of the legislature, we have launched the National Strategy for the Eradication of All Forms of Violence against Women, which for the first time has made trafficking visible in that strategy, for the first time. Secondly, we have the 2015-2018 Trafficking Plan, in which Petitum is asked to make the report. On the other hand, in this work we are in compliance with a Community directive, the directive of 3 April 2011, which is 90% of its compliance and which sets out the figure of the rapporteur for the monitoring of victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We have worked since the most clear commitment to combating trafficking in human beings, women and girls, for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Today we have to see how in this debate we raise the flag of feminism, the flag of ideologies, in a totally wrong way, Mrs Lastra, and campaigning, when it is not the time, and putting in a debate that was not necessary, the debate on the abolition of prostitution. Today that debate in this House is unnecessary, today we are talking about trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and a comprehensive law that is indeed necessary to comply with the international agreements that Spain has signed and ratified to protect 300,000 women victims of sexual violence, victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation in Spain. At the moment, what we have to do is to have a high level of focus, to have political principles to address from a dignity perspective what it means to protect women, girls and boys who are victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Vulnerability that exists, vulnerability that today, unfortunately, is in the bordelles of the roads of Spain, vulnerability that is in the industrial polygons. As men and women, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, we cannot look anywhere else and we have to address it today more than ever, since seventy years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights we are talking about sexual slavery, we are talking about sexual slaves. I will end the campaign that the People's Party Government, which President Rajoy's Government launched: Don't invest in suffering: Don't invest in suffering, don't buy a woman's body because behind that body there is a woman trafficked by illegal networks, by networks of human beings that move $35 billion in the world. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintanilla. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Lastra Fernández whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u107	Yes, Mr. President. I am absolutely convinced that the cause of trafficking in women, girls and boys in this country and in the world at large is prostitution. So, no...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u108	Mrs Lastra, you have to tell me whether you accept or reject the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u109	No, I just said it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u111	We move on to the debate on the following motion: Motion resulting from urgent interpellation by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, on the need for the European Commission to urgently request the application of the safeguard clause of Article 34 of the European Union Economic Partnership Agreement with the Community of South African States not to import citrus fruits from South Africa without guarantees of proper inspection. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to start by showing a picture. [[Show a picture]] This is an image that sometimes, when you see it live, makes you want to cry. It's from a Valencian field right now with all the orange production on the ground. This image unfortunately every year is more common, when not the straight one plucked from the trees. This image is not the result of a storm, it has not been caused by natural disaster, rain or wind. No, this image is the result of the trade agreement with South Africa, with Egypt and with other countries; by the way, with the votes in favour of the People's Party, which this morning was trying to conceal in the demonstration before the European Commission, and with the abstention of the Socialist Party. This image is the consequence of the European authorities' permissiveness with imports and checks on the entry of fruit from third countries. This image is the result of the desidiy and abandonment of the Spanish governments to Mediterranean agriculture, to fruit and vegetable agriculture that is always left behind. In Compromís we have already warned of the consequences of the trade treaty. He has already warned our MEP Jordi Sebastià and we have already warned by means of a GNP which he presented to the Committee on Agriculture by our MEP Enric Bataller: that this trade treaty with South Africa would cause the massive entry of fruit and would have direct consequences for farmers. This year alone in Valencia there will be 420 000 tonnes of uncollected harvest, 420 000 tonnes. This has caused ruinous prices, whether the fruit stays in the tree, or, worse, that farmers have to throw that fruit on the ground so that the tree next year will bear fruit. But the worst may not have happened, the worst may be coming in other years if this continues like this. I give a few figures of what the sector represents. The value of production is 4.5 billion in citrus fruit alone. It represents 200 000 direct jobs: 70 000 collidors, which we say there on my land, and 130 000 in warehouses. There are 200 000 direct jobs, not to mention the work being done on truckers and auxiliary machinery, packaging or printing industries. This year farmers have seen how their fruit stayed on the tree, how it fell to the ground, or how they had to sell it at absolutely ruinous prices. That is why this motion calls for action for the next campaign. Firstly, that the European Commission appreciates the damage that this massive influx of citrus fruits from South Africa has done to ensure that the safeguard clause provided for in the European Union Economic Partnership Agreement with the Community of South African States, Article 34(2), can be implemented in time. Secondly, we call for a strengthening of the border inspection to ensure proper pest control. We are seeing that every year new plagues enter and it is precisely the fruit that they are not done as these inspections should, for example to avoid the contagion of a plague that we do not yet have, such as the black spot. We want to claim one very important thing, and it is reciprocity in trade agreements, that is, that what is required for Valencian farmers, for Spanish farmers, is also required for the entry of fruit from other countries in order to avoid precisely such unfair competition, social dumping and, above all, the phytosanitary risks posed by the entry of fruit with products and pesticides that are expressly prohibited in the European Union and that are entering without any control and passing on to consumers. We believe that this must be explained, that reciprocity must be strengthened, Valencian farmers cannot compete with a hand tied behind their backs. We also demand one thing that is important to us because when we have to export citrus to the United States or China we are required, and it is cold treatment. It is absolutely essential that cold treatment is required for imports from third countries and thus prevent pests and other diseases that may affect our trees from entering the European Union. To promote a mechanism for collaboration with the European Union's citrus countries, Spain, Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal and France, to establish joint proposals on European citrus products. I'm running out, Your Honor. And also short-term measures. We understand that from the ministry we have to take measures to help farmers: first, a campaign to promote the consumption of citrus fruits; IBI exemption measures for producers who have been affected by compensating the municipalities in these areas so that they do not have a reduction in their income; approve a reduction in the net yield rates for the citrus sector in the IRPF for the financial year 2018; promote the financing of the citrus sector through the State Agricultural Guarantee Corporation; and study - this is very important for Compromises - a system of compensation through crisis management mechanisms that allows Community rules for those citrus farmers who have not been able to sell their production, in order to compensate precisely for these citrus farmers affected by this crisis. I'm done. I started with a sign. This is the sign of the demonstration that will be made in all the orange regions of Valencia. [[Show a sign]] Let's hope that next year we don't have to teach this poster again. I would of course like to welcome the two members of the Union of Llaurators and Ramaders who have wanted to accompany us and to put pressure on these measures, which are absolutely fair and of common sense at the end, to be taken by the different governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Cantó García del Moral spoke in defence of the amendments put forward by his groups by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u114	[[Before you start your intervention you deposit oranges on the rostrum]] : Mr. Baldoví, one of these oranges is from South Africa, the other is Valencian and you cannot distinguish them, and I will explain later why. The agri-food sector, ladies and gentlemen, represents 16% of the GDP of the Valencian Community, 24% of exports, and 14% of employment. The weight of the agri-food sector is indisputable, but I believe that these figures do not explain what these two fruits really mean to the Valencians. You know that, Mr. Baldoví. You and I have played between oranges, I've slapped the Perellonet under the oranges when they were still watering them in a blanket, I've skipped the blindfolds, I understand what we're talking about. [[Several Members: Ohhh!]] What I want to say is that the trees that bear this fruit occupy a much larger space than those economic figures that I have just given you all. The truth is that all the rulers of the Valencian Community before and now are doing it wrong, they are doing it very badly, because for years 35 000 hectares of citrus have already been abandoned, the number of workers has fallen by 70%, the average age of farmers has gone from forty-eight to sixty-four years, and that has happened while ruling the People's Party but also while ruling the Valencian tripartite. So I understand farmers' scepticism, I understand it perfectly, I could feel it the other day. Today there are the lords of Unió, whom I know well, whom I support; three or four days ago I was in Valencia supporting the lords of Ava, who also expressed to me their difficulties. I follow them, I listen to them, I understand their despair when they tell us how they have to throw the fruit because what they give them for it is not worth the investment or the effort or all the illusion they put in. That is why I find it difficult today to talk about things like the Agricultural Structures Act, which we support, and I find it difficult to remind you that we, together with you, Mr Baldoví, also vote for you in Brussels; I even find it difficult to talk - you have already explained it well - about what needs to be done in Europe, about what you and we are proposing today, because I understand the anger, the impotence, the frustration of the Valencian farmers. We have to amend the Food Chain Act, we have to work on the CAP, we have to put in place corrective measures in the European Union, you have talked about them. It cannot be that we fry to taxes on Valencian farmers, to phytosanitary and labor demands so that they will then arrive from outside without those taxes and without those demands and compete unequally with them. Of course, we must help them when they suffer great losses. And of course, I have to ask you, Mr. Baldoví. There is also a part that has to do with what they do that is in their hand. You govern in the Valencian Community, what have you done for this and for them in the Valencian Community? I have to keep talking about this and I have to say they haven't done anything. Mr Baldoví, have you made any operations, any campaigns to promote the consumption of Valencian products? None. Don't make me like this, this is what you have: none. [[slaps to the cheek]] The farmers themselves confirmed it to me the other day. Look, you spend EUR 50 million on TeleCompromís to promote yourself and you don't spend a single euro on promoting Valencian farmers, Mr Baldoví. [[Applauds]] You spend euros on financing pan-Catalanist entities but you don't spend a single euro on promoting Valencian oranges, Mr Baldoví. Research and development? Not a euro. The IVIA budget has grown under the tripartite government of EUR 19,380, Mr Baldoví. Recently there were 25 researchers, today they are less than half and you have done nothing to help them. You want the Telecompromise budget to rise by 40%, you increase in two years by 72% the amount devoted to your high-ranking posts, that is what really measures how much you Valencian farmers care about Mr Baldoví: 72%, 42%, and for research and development of new products for Valencian farmers by 0.14%, Mr Baldoví. Little shame is what you have, let me tell you. [[He slaps his cheek.-Applause.]] I was also going to ask you if you have thought about research and development talking to the best, but it is that one of the best is Israel. You have voted in Les Corts a boycott of Israel, so I will not ask you even if you have gone to Israel to ask the best how we can improve the Valencian countryside. [[Applauds]] And look, Mr Baldoví, you're fantastic; you're like Schrödingeren's cat, you're alive and you're dead at the same time; you're able to sip and blow; only you can come here, as you've done, with the claim shirt, with the claim poster while you rule in the Valencian Community. Only you can do those two things at once. Only you, Mr Baldoví, are able to have a spokesman who votes in favour of the blockade of Israel in Les Corts and is going on holiday to Israel; that can only be done by you, Mr Baldoví. [[Applauds]] Look, I was asking you at the beginning of this speech to distinguish which of these oranges is Valencian and which one is South Africa. You can't; no one can, it's very complicated to do it. But look, if I talked to the Valencian farmers, they could start giving you clues on how to do it. [[Show an orange with a label and wrap it with silk paper]] If I talked to the Valencian farmers, they could tell you how important it is to make good campaigns. What is important is to go to a fair with a strong Spanish brand and not with seventeen brands; what could be done with machines in public spaces that sell oranges, that sell their juice, etc., etc., etc. Listen to them and stop using them. [[Applauds]] To finish. I told him at first that I was going up here and I was going up these two fruits because of how important they are to me, because I respect them. I would like to finish this speech by showing you another fruit which I think is a good symbol of the work you do in the Valencian Community, Mr Baldoví. [[Show a chestnut]] You're a chestnut, with all due respect. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u115	Mr. Cantó, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u116	And abusing the patience of the President, I simply want to say to the House that, as this is probably the last time I will speak from this place, I want to tell you all that it has been an honor to work with all of you, with almost all of you, with the vast majority of you; that it has been an honour to serve my country from here during these years; and especially I want to thank all the workers of this house, who make it a privilege in the great sense of the word. [[rumors]] Long live Spain! [[Several Members: Alive!-Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pastor Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Start your intervention in Valencian]] As I have little time, I would like to go to the point, but I cannot remain without replying to the words of Mr Cantó, who brings here two oranges and who says that it is impossible to distinguish one from the other. I'll tell you how you stand out, Mr. Cantó, because you, apart from swimming in the streams and in the alleys, I think you've been a little short for the Valencian Community, just now you're going to run for office. The oranges are different, those that come from South Africa and are still on ours' lines, on a question called organoleptic quality. You simply can't tell them apart because the oranges coming from South Africa have an industrial quality, but when we open them we can check the difference. Our citruses achieve or must compete not only for an industrial quality, to which they must also aspire, but also for that organoleptic quality that confers them to be citruses of proximity and season. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I will say that the consequences of amending the agreement with the countries of the South African States are already being explained to the citrus sector, especially in the Valencian Community, and I would like to give you two testimonies. This Member, already in October 2016, asked the Government, at the time of the People's Party, a few questions, warning about the risks that such a modification of the agreement would bring. The People's Party - in the Government at the time - replied that there was no danger because the campaigns were not going to coincide, as the products coming from South Africa stopped entering in October. He said: in November they will remain at low levels despite the improvement in access. Well, that has not been the case; they have remained at very high levels. Still now there are some South African oranges - like the one Mr Cantó has brought - in the linear ones, which has completely ruined the production of early varieties of Valencian citrus plants and citrus growers. As I told you, today I bring you two testimonies. One is David's, a citricultor from the Lower Plane. David is a young man who bet on citrus as a means of life, who is going to have a son in April and who at the beginning of the season had nine drownings. Of these nine drownings he has had to start one with the Clemensoon variety, which will entail a direct expenditure of EUR 12 000 due to the loss of production and the cost of grubbing up the trees. It has also had to start 1.6 hectares of the Clementine variety of Nules, which will result in an expenditure of EUR 16 000. These EUR 28 000 do not include investment costs for planting new trees of other varieties, which will take about seven or eight years to enter full production, or annual cultivation costs until then. In addition, it has had to throw on the ground - which is what the farmers say on our land; it has no translation to the Spanish - half of the citrus production of the Esbal variety of another plot of 0.70 hectares because the company with which it had closed the deal has finally told it that it cannot take charge of the 10,000 kilos. This will result in a loss of 3000 euros to pay the labor for pulling out the production and for the uncollected. In total, David has lost 31 000 euros. Another case is that of Pepa, a farmer from the Ribera. Pepa is a technical agricultural engineer and at almost fifty years she decided to take over the production of the small land that she inherited from her parents, which had 4 hectares. Eight years ago it had to vary and take out half of those 4 hectares to dedicate it to the khaki. She cannot afford to plant later varieties because in her icy area she runs the risk of losing the harvest. Pepa says that, in addition to betting on citrus farming as a means of life, agriculture takes care of and maintains the territory, a territory that if we pluck the trees and lose the people who cultivate that land will lose its physiognomy, the characteristics of the landscape and even the fauna. Pepa says she feels very attached to this environment, which belongs to the emblematic culture of the Valencian Community. Pepa doesn't know how much she'll lose at the end of the campaign because she works in a cooperative and until the end of the season she won't be settled, but she is sure that the losses that have resulted from the entry of orange and mandarin from third countries will cause her to re-enter the sector. We have already talked here about the losses of the campaign and I am not going to enter - because it has already been explained in detail - the risks posed by non-reciprocality with regard to plant protection guarantees. It's very important that no plagues come in. Adding losses from pests would mean such a disaster that citrus farming could no longer recover. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, she wondered: in the face of the lukewarmness of the Government, in this case the Socialist Party, what was needed to decide to act, to demand the application of the bilateral safeguard clause provided for in the agreement, which allowed measures to be taken against imports in the event that they caused significant distortions in the market or serious damage to the economy? Is it that the cases I have told you - only two of the thousands of cases throughout the Valencian Community - are not serious disturbances and are not affecting the economy of a territory and causing hundreds, thousands of producers to plan to leave their plantations because they cannot live like this? This is what this Member wants to ask you. Our agricultural model draws our territory on thousands of small farms where work, wealth and, with them, the economy are distributed, distributed so that everyone can live more or less from agriculture. If we deconfigure this model, lose diversity, lose jobs and lose the coordinates that make us this people, this country, so much that we defend this country. This country is made up of people who work, of a territory with characteristics. I would like to remind this House that we have just begun the Decade of Family Agriculture, in which we have to emphasize, as the United Nations has ruled. Family farming gives food, prevents it from falling into misery, avoids depopulation and prevents many of our farmers from having to end up selling their small parcels of land to large companies to create large laundromats as there are in other countries. So, I would like to ask from here, on behalf of the United Parliamentary Group, that the Government come in, that the Socialist Government, if it still has the power to do so, claim, demand, ask Brussels to activate this safeguard clause for citrus products, in order to save the citrus fruit of the Valencian Community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. For the Socialist Group, Mr Quintana Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u120	Thank you, President. Before we begin, I would also like to thank the two members of the Union of Llaurators for their presence and welcome you to this home. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture and, therefore, citrus farming have been and are a priority for my party, both nationally and autonomously. The entry into the common market by our country was very welcome, as it gave stability to the exports of our products in Europe and especially to orange, but the latest trade agreements with the different countries outside the Union have left a bitter taste to the farmer, who has seen how he has gradually lost competitiveness with regard to those exporting countries, with practices that we can describe as unfair and unfair socially and economically; we are talking about poor working conditions or poor plant protection treatments, both at source and at the border, achieving a product with lower costs for the producer, but at the same time with less health security for the consumer. In addition, this year other factors have affected our oranges: the climatology in our country and in the rest of Europe has reduced their consumption and the increase in production, together with the low purchase price, has left thousands of tons of oranges uncollected. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, unlike the previous executive of the People's Party, has not stood idly by. This government, together with the Government of the Generalitat Valenciana, has sat with the interprofessional Intercitrus - with which, by the way, it has been more than seven years without doing so - for all of us to seek a solution that will alleviate this bad season, because moreover, from our point of view, the sector not only has a short-term problem, the sector has a structural problem; a short-term problem, with all the factors I have described above, but an important structural problem: a lack of professionalization of the countryside. You know that most of the productions are the result of a second economic activity, a type of mini-fund in the farms that carries a high cost in the final product and a lack of generational relief in the field. Mr Baldoví, in our land - you know this as well as we do - the productive model of the twenty years of People's Party government was based on brick and speculation. This failed productive model led our youth to believe that the countryside had no future and that it was best to devote itself to something else; it left the IVIA centre, a centre that until 1995 was a national and European leader in research, both of pests and plant diseases and of something as important as research in other varietal options that would have prepared the farmer to face the competition in the market that would come a few years later. But, I repeat, agriculture was not of interest to the People's Party, the main ones were the big events, the waste and the abandonment of the fields, because from there came a possible business of real estate speculation. Mr Baldoví, you know perfectly well that we are working from the minute one in a coordinated way both the Government of Mr Sánchez and the Government of Mr Puig. On 28 December, President Puig committed himself to a series of aid to try to alleviate this year's large losses, but what we consider even more important is the start of a strategic plan to give the sector a future. As you well know, a few days ago a delegation from the Agriculture Council met in Brussels for the first time with Commissioner Hogan to transfer the problems of the sector to him. In addition, last weeks two laws were passed in the Valencian Courts, which we believe will be of great importance in order to alleviate the great structural problem of the countryside, such as the Agricultural Structures Act and the Agricultural Contracts Act. And, of course, we are looking for new markets in Canada's trade agreements and, more recently, in Japan, to try to find accommodation for our oranges and thus continue to be relevant as exporters. But Minister Planas also had a meeting last month on our land with the sector, committing himself to seeking a solution with aid for the withdrawal of 50 000 tonnes of oranges to be allocated to the juice industry and thus self-regulating the market. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Planas said it loud and clear. It will not shake your hand to demand, if the data to be analysed by the European Commission so determine, that the safeguard clause be applied, in addition to already requesting a more rigorous control of the cold treatments at origin and the phytosanitary controls at the border to allow our orange to compete under the same conditions as those of the southern cone of Africa. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been and is committed to defending the interests of our farmers and, for this reason, last month presented an initiative requesting the Government, inter alia, direct tax aid or financing through the Saeca, so that, with all the above mentioned, among all, sector and administration, our orange is the most consumed in Europe and the rest of the world and, in addition, with an economic return for the farmer that allows him to live worthy of his work and effort. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the application of safeguards is not achieved before because it is requested, but rather by providing the request with the appropriate and necessary information. If we want them to respect us, in addition to protesting, we have to justify it. Let us be rigorous and we will be able to defend our farmers against trade agreements that are good for our economy and also for farmers, as well as working with them to improve our product. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u121	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Aras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth my first words to welcome also the representatives of the Union and my express appreciation to the agricultural organizations that have been accompanying us this morning on the Paseo de la Castellana, presenting our initiatives and calling for a fair and solidarity policy with Mediterranean agriculture in the European Commission's office in Madrid by Asaja and farmers from Almeria, Murcia, Alicante, Castellón and Valencia. We are faced with an unprecedented campaign - my predecessors in the use of the rostrum have expressed this - with a series of circumstances that have generated a true explosive cyclogenesis in the citrus sector of the Valencian Community and Spain, a perfect storm. It was a situation which, by the way, was seen to come, and which triggered all the alarms when, in September, the Agriculture Council itself, a reference in the sector, announced the data on the shelters, which required urgent action. It was late and bad. Only when the council saw the mobilizations of the sector put in place a plan, insufficient, to decongest the market, but it was late. Could you tell me, Mr Baldoví, where you and your tripartite government partners were when the agricultural organisations sounded the alarm? Where were you and your partners in government when both short-term measures were being called for, to try to alleviate the impact, and a strategic plan that envisaged structural actions to tackle the first problems of marketing? Where were you in the budgets that you so vehemently defended - there and here too - the budget lines to tackle the citrus crisis and support producers? The consequences of his inaction since the Generalitat and the lack of involvement of Mr Sánchez's Government have been devastating. Ladies and gentlemen, we must rethink the anti-crisis measures in the new CAP with sufficient guarantees for Mediterranean agriculture. The minister announced it and it has been shown that it is also effective in developing the chain law. By the way, the French example must be followed; there we have managed to index the selling price with the production costs, the great battle horse of our farmers. Spain must lead a determined action in defense of a strategic sector, leader in the world export of fruit. We must demand a change of course in Community policies linked to the rural agricultural world, especially in the Mediterranean area. We must support those agricultural organisations that are and have a voice in the bodies of the European Union, such as the Copa-Cogeca; a task that must be coordinated with the Government of Spain, because the citrus crisis is a European problem. But you're in something else. Why has your party, Mr Baldoví, not defended the changes in rural development plans so that part of this aid is intended to alleviate the damage in the Valencian countryside? Why did they have to wait for the PP to go to Europe to ask for the safeguard clause? Why did you not ask for explanations when your fellow travelers in the Valencian Community left the abandoned farmers to their fate from the Brussels office? Why has the government he supports not submitted any allegations to the CAP? [[Applauds]] Why would they prefer to travel to Brussels to sit with Puigdemont instead of defending Valencian and Spanish orange and the entire citrus sector? [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Too many unanswered questions, Mr. Baldoví. Get down from the rostrum and step on that field you love so much. All your proposals have been left, in the end, in nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to rebalance the treaties because the scenarios have changed. We must also redefine the role of those producer organizations that have to concentrate this much-needed supply and thus be able to better defend the weakest link. But they have to be measures that affect everyone and reach everyone: the big distributors, the commercial operators and, above all, the farmers, especially the farmers, who are the ones to be empowered so that they do not remain the weakest link in the chain. Mr Baldoví, do you remember when Compromís opposed CETA to the European Union, a treaty whereby our exports to the American country have increased by 34%? Isn't that what we're talking about? Don't you remember that the 2016 agreement with South Africa we approved here in a plenary vote in February 2018 and that we all support it, including you? It is a dangerous double morality that attacks frontally the purest common sense, endangering an entire agro-exporting sector. Tell us who you are with, who your partners are in Brussels and what you are voting for now in the European Parliament and don't fool people. Their toll on the national populism of the left should not be paid by the Valencians or the Spanish, because the safeguard is very good to demand it - and we do - but people should know that it only affects tariffs for three years. We must be more rigorous and go to the epicenter of the problem, which is in the actual revision of the agreement with South Africa, not in 2016, but in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen, we have millions of plantations in South Africa, tens of thousands of hectares in Turkey, Egypt, Morocco and the South American Cone. This is the serious threat to us, a threat that in five, six or seven years will provoke a spectacular over offer that will distort the markets. It is therefore necessary to start impact assessments in order to be able to require the application of the safeguard clauses and not to be too late. Where were you when the councilwoman responsible - of Compromises, by the way - filed the farmers' complaints about sales at loss? What model do you represent and what guarantee for farmers who, in the case of the first affected by the Xylella, have taken two years to collect from their government? Didn't they come to defend the weakest, to save people? For you, the defense of Valencian and Spanish citrus can be found in a tweet. Mr. Baldoví, this is simple. Our farmers need the Council and the Government to defend them before the European Union and they need help. And we make it easy for him. I urge the President of the Generalitat, Mr Ximo Puig, to allocate the nearly 400 million he has invested in agencies for the placement of his own in the countryside and, if not, to tell the farmers that he prefers to pay payrolls of relatives, friends and relatives than of the farmers themselves, who leave their sweat from sun to sun and then have to throw away their crops because neither you nor your party nor your partners want to put the countryside ahead of ideology. I am concluding, Madam President, with the amendment that we have tabled, which comes to pick up those necessary initiatives that the sector is asking of us. We all agree in the analysis, I don't know if in the diagnosis. Let us therefore apply ourselves to the solutions to unlock a product that lives trapped between the old model and the attempts at modernization. We cannot face the challenges of the 21st century with the structure of the 20th and the mentality of the 19th century, because orange is the heritage of all. You, Mr Baldoví, decide: to invest in the countryside or in your friends; to bet on the countryside or on ideology; to travel to Europe to sit with Puigdemont or to defend the Valencian countryside and the Spanish citrus sector. We, from the People's Party, will always be at the side of a sector that deserves more than just a simple tweet policy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u123	Thank you very much. At the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[PNV]] [[Rumors]] Mrs. Vazquez. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u124	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. This group is going to vote in favour of the motion tabled, because the citrus sector is going through one of the worst crises in recent years. There are many affected provinces where citrus production is concentrated, such as Valencia, Castellón, Alicante, Murcia, Seville, Huelva, Córdoba and even Tarragona. It is a motion that is presented today by the Compromís Parliamentary Group, the fruit of an inquiry, but it must also be said that the PSOE has already registered a GNP in this regard in 2016... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u125	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u126	... and subsequently in January 2019, urging the European Commission to monitor the impact of the trade agreement with South Africa, in particular on the citrus market. The problem lies basically in the negative consequences of the European Union's trade agreement with the Southern African State community. It is an agreement that extended the period of import of citrus fruits and tariffs by one and a half months and also provided for a progressive reduction of the tariff until South Africa paid nothing in 2025 to export its citrus fruits to Europe. It is an agreement that has also demonstrated Spain's weakness in negotiations with exporting countries, putting the competitiveness of this sector at risk. The consequences are negative, as I said, not only in terms of marketing and selling, but also in terms of food and plant protection conditions or guarantees. In addition to a significant increase in the import volume of South African citrus fruits, their presence on the markets coincides with the period during which products from these provinces are marketed. If we add to this that large areas or large distributors increase the supply of citrus fruits in the markets by downward pressure on the prices at source, taking advantage above all of the socio-industrial conditions or the most economical labour force in the production of South African citrus fruits and that they are not required the same plant protection requirements as European products, competition on equal terms on the same market is virtually impossible. In the interpellation to the Minister, despite the fact that the Minister stated that there was no record of such an increase in imports and that the safeguard clause can be activated if the circumstances provided for in Article 34 of the Association Agreement are given, where, for example, the product in question is imported in increasing quantities and under conditions causing serious injury to the markets for Community agricultural products, she defended plant protection controls at the border due to the intervention of South African consignments infected with black spot disease. Therefore, given the differences between the Ministry of Agriculture and farmers' associations in terms of the increase in the volume of imports, it would be necessary to assess these data and threats for the State Government or those of the autonomous communities to take alternative measures, as well as to proceed to request corrective measures from the European Union in this regard. The growth of South Africa's imports, overproduction and a very concentrated large distribution that pushes prices down are aspects that stifle, if any, even more a sector that is also characterized by family mini-fund farms, with which this entails. That is why this group will vote in favour of the measures contained in the reference motion. Eskerrik asko. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u127	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u128	Good afternoon. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Before I begin to analyze the emergency situation of the citrus industry in Catalonia as well as in the Valencià Country, I would like to make a little reflection. Liberalisation of markets and free trade without regularisation or with low regularisation brings us opportunities, but also very serious costs. We talk about economic policy, we talk about minima. When the cost of what is globalised is greater than what is earned, it is a bad economic business, but above all human. We are building a world, societies that raise walls to prevent people from passing through and that tear down the walls to the financial capital, speculator and origin of the exploitation; a kind of society that allows the weight of the industry to be reduced and that costs more and more to find products manufactured in Europe, achieving this globalization also to our farmers. In the Terres de l'Ebre there was until recently a furniture industry, there was a car industry and there are citrus trees; as we go, they are not going to be citrus trees as there is no industry left. It is becoming increasingly clear that trade liberalization is leading us to a price war that goes beyond labour rights or, as we see in the case of foodstuffs, plant protection conditions. If we do not protect our primary sector, as we have done with the industrial sector, if we do not protect our farmers, the farm workers, we are also giving up food sovereignty and becoming dependent on what is most essential, even though we have optimal conditions for the agricultural production of basic products. If we sell ourselves permanently to the cheapest markets, we are encouraging that because of the countries without labour rights, without security controls and which do not respect human and environmental rights, our factories are closed, our barns and our fields are closed. Farmers in the poorest countries have the right to export their products, of course, and to use their labour force to escape poverty, but, let us not be mistaken, this is not the way; imposing market conditions that force these workers to renounce their rights is no favour either for them or for us, because this is how we destroy our sector and condemn farmers from outside to a permanent war to devalue their conditions by trying to offer their labour force at a cheaper price. This absurd race nowhere, because there will always be someone who will work cheaper, will bring us the impoverishment of many, let alone of all. Now, after this brief introduction, we will better understand the problem of citrus fruits in the Valencià Country and in the Terres de l'Ebre. The Spanish State produces more than 7 million tons of citrus fruits, being the sixth largest producer in the world and the first largest producer in the European Union, with more than half, and also the world's largest exporter of this fruit. The European institutions are called upon to take control measures at the entry of citrus fruits from third countries, especially from South Africa, following the economic partnership agreement between the European Union and several South African States, known as the economic agreement with the community of South African States. Let us remember that earlier the largest imports of South African oranges into Spain were made in the summer months, i.e. they were not direct competition, and ended in October; well, from this agreement, the possibility of importing oranges from South Africa has been extended further, with which, for a few months, they compete for the same market, thus sinking the citrus fruits of the Valencià Country and the Terres de l'Ebre mainly. The agreement, in addition to sinking the citrus market in our country, because it has made it possible for South African citrus to compete in space and time with ours, also poses the danger of entering pests of these products due to the lack of plant protection controls. We therefore call on the European Union, as the motion claims, to apply safeguard clauses to the agreement and to amend the convention with a new protocol on trade relations, as well as to carry out comprehensive studies on its socio-economic consequences. In short, because I am running out of time, we must stand by our producers and encourage proximity consumption on an economic but also environmental issue. What's the point of importing basic agricultural products - oranges, for example - from thousands and thousands of kilometers and being able to consume and market them here? What society are we making? What European Union are we doing that is incapable of letting a President of the Generalitat give a conference and, instead, allows the extreme right and the Francoist forces to do so? What European Union are we building? This European Union does not represent me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u129	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Baldoví Roda whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u130	Madam President, for allusions made to my person and to my group, Mr Toni Singed and invoked Rule 71, since he made a value judgment by taking a dry fruit out of his pocket and in the spirit of insulting...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u131	Wait a minute. Mr. Baldoví, just a moment. You tell me, by virtue of the article you mentioned, the allusion that you want Mr Cantó to withdraw. [[Rumors]] Quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u132	Mr. Cantó has made two allusions. He has called us Compromís 'castana', when chestnut is a fruit that is given in the north, it is very little Valencian, probably could have used... [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: It's a mockery.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u133	Mr Baldoví, I beg you to take the allusion and that is what you have the floor for. [[Rumors]] And I beg your silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u134	He has said 'chaste' and has also failed to respect a Valencian institution and all its workers when he has said 'TeleCompromís', and it is said by a gentleman who has charged 134 000 euros in five months... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u135	Thank you very much. Then I give you the floor. Mr. Singing, you have one minute if you want to answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u136	With all due respect to the chestnuts, I repeat that the government action of Mr Baldoví and his party, of Compromís, in the Valencian Community...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u137	Mr. Singing, tell me whether you want to withdraw it or not, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u138	No, they're brown. [[Laughs.-Protests.-Mr Baldoví Roda: And you a handsome!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no words. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] This isn't The Comedy Club. I'm telling you because, really, they're having a bad time. Mr Baldoví, you have the floor to say whether your group accepts the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u139	I'm sorry, the burning has made it possible for me. As far as the amendments are concerned, there is a compromise amendment that we have signed with the Socialist and United Socialist Group. I'll give it to you right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u140	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, on the need to eliminate THE GROWING SEGREGATION IN THE SPANISH EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM IN THE FIELD OF A NEW EDUCATIONAL LAW. [[File number 173/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the motion of urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the need to eliminate the growing segregation in the Spanish education system through a new education law. Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u142	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before one of the last plenary sessions of the legislature and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States. We could have liked to have fired her with clear advances in education, advances that would have left behind the classist and segregating educational model of the People's Party. But as Members of Parliament, as public representatives, we must stick to reality and recognize everything that has remained to be done in this legislature. [[The lady]] A few weeks ago we registered this motion on educational segregation, as a result of my colleague Joan Mena's appeal to the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, and with which we intended to influence some aspects of the preliminary draft law prepared by the Government to repeal the Lomce. Finally, this preliminary draft was approved last Friday, the same day that the President of the Government decided to call general elections for the next 28 April. With these deadlines, it is clear that this preliminary draft is not going to be able to deal with and it is going to fall asleep to the dream of the righteous, which, in passing, seems to us tremendous, because we are talking about that after nine months of having thrown the People's Party, after nine months of socialist government, this government has not been able to repeal Mr Wert's Lomce and will therefore come into force, if we do nothing, in the next parliamentary term. Predicting a similar scenario, we already warned the minister at the meetings that we had the ministry and United We can say that the repeal of the Lomce should be an urgent priority and that it should also be repealed by royal decree, and it was not wanted; I repeat, it was not wanted. Despite everything, we think that you are still in time, but we need to act with care and that you move this week. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u144	In any case, we are going to talk about this motion and we are going to talk about educational segregation, which may not be of much interest to some parliamentarians, but I believe that Spanish society does. In the last appearance on 6 February, Minister Isabel Celaá brought PISA's reports to light to ensure that equity is one of the pillars of our educational system. However, the minister herself was not able to deny that these same reports point to increasing segregation in our classrooms. And this is the question, because an educational system cannot be living permanently on rent and it is clear that with the Lomce, with the low investment and with the promotion of subsidized private options that the People's Party makes the gap is widening and education is no longer being a social lift for the majority. Therefore, when we talk about segregation, it is important that we distinguish between intracenter and intercenter segregation. The first is the breaking of the principle of understanding, that is, of common education, and which occurs when students are separated on different routes or when within the same centre the specific needs of support for students who need it most are not met. This type of segregation - you know - has been consolidated with the early Lomce itineraries, with the basic FP, etc., and it is true that in that pre-project that has already been born dead something was progressing on these issues in order to overcome them. But our educational system presents an even more serious second type of discrimination, inter-centre segregation, i.e. the separation of students for reasons such as socio-economic origin, religion and even sex. We have a differentiated education in our country. In fact, as the latest Save the Children report points out, the most vulnerable student is concentrated in 46% of the schools, i.e. we do not have a balanced schooling and, for the most part, 90% of the schools that host these children are public or, which is the same, only one in ten vulnerable students attend a private centre or a subsidized private one. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not happen randomly but responds to a model of schooling that has led to a 14.5 % increase in segregation in the last decade. In this sense, segregation works almost like a perfect circle, because there are schools where the student is concentrated with greater educational needs but not with the greater resources, which makes it more difficult to attend to this student. As a result, teachers are burned because they cannot give all the attention they deserve and, therefore, these centres are beginning to be unattractive for more trained teachers and also for families with a higher socio-economic level. And the circle closes: because there is no demand for schooling, groups, lines are being closed, and therefore they receive fewer and fewer resources. The other side of all this abandonment we already know is the new concerts and the progressive privatization of education. That is why, when the rights, when the People's Party and Citizens tell us about social demand, they refer to creating the conditions of degradation of public education so that families are forced to choose private, religious, and ultimately more expensive options that leave us with a broken society. In this legislature we have been able to talk a lot about these issues and I am sure that from the Ministry of Education and from the ranks of the Socialist Group much of the diagnosis will be shared. The problem is that sometimes you have to dare to translate the diagnoses into public policies, knowing that this involves transforming some things and sometimes even disrupting some privileges. The preliminary draft educational law provided a good opportunity to review elements that impact on school segregation and this motion was for that purpose. For example, we planned to plan the school offer according to the criteria of inclusion and balanced schooling, and to do so we needed to revise the modules of the concerts to link them to the attention of a minimum student with socio-economic needs or with special needs. We also proposed that the future education law should be accompanied - this was a demand shared with the Socialist Group - by an economic memory that would shield investment in at least 5% of GDP and that would also provide mechanisms for public administrations to allocate greater resources to educational institutions that cater to the most vulnerable students. We know that perhaps this debate is a little late; firstly, because the Council of Ministers has decided to proceed with a preliminary draft law which does not contain many of these claims from União Podemos and which does not go to the root of segregation and, secondly, because we are going to an early election and would not give time to proceed with these proposals as amendments either. In any case, as we said at the beginning of this intervention, the fundamental thing right now is to make a real decree to repeal most of the Lomce, which today is the biggest obstacle to regaining the equity of the education system. That's why, and to finish, today I'd ask them to be brave. Dare to face up to the elitist education that the People's and Citizens' Party defends and, above all, do not again disappoint the educational community - I say this to the comrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - as has happened on other occasions when they have ruled, and to repeal the Lomce at once. It's the commitment they had to this group, it's the commitment they had to the educational community and to a lot of people, and that's what it's all about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Serna. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to comment on this motion that has been brought by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, I would like to begin by thanking Save the Children, in particular Ana Sastre and Álvaro Ferrer, for the work they have done and which has partly served as a basis for the approach to this motion. In Citizens we know him well, we have worked side by side with them and believe that he has been very useful for the elaboration of public policies and for the improvement of the education system. [[Rumors]] It is true that there is an educational system that has school segregation and does not contemplate equity, as the minister said when she came to this House, but it is also true... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u147	Mrs. Martin Llaguno, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Martín Llaguno will not speak again until they remain silent. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u148	He said that one thing is the diagnosis that Save the Children makes and that deserves our respect and another is the partisan interpretation and, if I may say so, a bit of a twister that you gentlemen of Podemos do at some point in the explanatory statement. You have repeatedly mentioned that there are four types of segregation: religious, sexist, socio-economic and linguistic. I have tabled some amendments which I think improve the motion and which are moderate, but I am not going to stop and talk about the amendments, which have been able to read them, but I am going to take a look at these kinds of segregations that you say exist. With regard to religious segregation, which is so obsessed with you, I would ask you, please, to come out of that ideological myopia in which you are, because you only see religious segregation when it comes to Catholic religion and you do not see religious segregation when it comes to other religions. [[Applauds]] If you don't see it this way, please talk to your Compromís partners and your PSOE partners in the Valencian Community, who have imposed Muslim religion on a lot of schools without social demand. Clarify yourselves with that empanada. We have it very clear. We believe that catechetical religion has to leave schools. In schools, what has to be taught is a philosophy and a history of religions and the whole catechetical subject must be removed. Therefore, the subject of religious segregation does not see it as you do. Secondly, you speak of male segregation. Having been in the Covenant against Gender Violence - which, by the way, you did not sign - and having been in the educational covenant - of which, by the way, you rose - I am not a suspect of not having proposed education for equality in both covenants. But not only that, but also I am not a suspect in defending differentiated education, it is not our model, it is not the model of Citizens, and in this sense we have proposed that the concerts not be extended. Now, whether we don't like it or not it's our model doesn't mean that we dare to say it's segregation. Because, look, what we have to do is handle ourselves with empirical evidence, and there's empirical evidence on one side and on the other. Of what there is empirical evidence - and the other day it came out press - is that, for example, there is a segregation, a significant gender gap to the detriment or against men in relation to women regarding failure and early school dropout. There are 10% more men who fail or leave early in front of women, and this, which is a reality, with data, when we went to ask the ministry, who is so worried about doing equality policies, not only have they not seen it, but they are hiding it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u150	That is why we have also proposed positive action measures to correct this gap. Thirdly, there is a gap that is forgotten and that they always deny, which is the gap for territorial reasons. This is not what I say, as the Save the Children report says, which you have handled, where the index varies ostensibly between communities. And finally - because I see that I am running out of time - I am very glad that you have finally admitted that there is indeed segregation in this country for linguistic and ideological reasons. We've been saying more than one legislature. Yes, sir, in Catalonia there are children who are segregated because they are Spanish-speaking and this is what the Ombudsman's report has done. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I am very glad - it is never too late if it is good - that you have finally recognized it and that at some point you can convince the gentlemen of the PSOE, who have preferred to cover their eyes, close the reports and keep the issues in a drawer instead of putting solutions. We are against segregation of any kind, and that is why we have tabled amendments to improve this. Let's hope they admit them because they improve their motion a lot. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, school segregation is a major problem and serious consequences. Aware of this and taking into account the reports presented in this regard in Congress, such as that of Save the Children, we already presented in November, after their appearance, a non-law proposal precisely to avoid school segregation, and consistent with this position and with the concern about this problem, also the bill that was registered here yesterday, in Congress, contains a large part of the measures that help to combat school segregation in all respects. School segregation is certainly a problem that threatens the quality and equity of the education system as a whole, it is a complex problem that affects the principle of equal opportunities and influences educational outcomes in a decisive way. It is therefore a problem that we must combat in a serious and decisive way. But you talk about four types of school segregation and we certainly don't feel that they all have the same impact, the same importance, and that they don't have to be addressed in the same way. Moreover, I believe that there are a number of problems around school segregation that need to be combated in a much stronger way, and we logically talk about the school segregation that is caused by the criteria of admission or the programming of places between the public network and the concerted network. Measures such as the single district, the liberalization of admission criteria or the selection of pupils with the imposition of quotas on the concerted network are measures that generate school segregation, measures promoted by the Lomce People's Party and shared by the right. It is these measures that the Socialist Government has prioritized to combat in the draft law that it registered yesterday through the modification of these criteria of admission, common certainly for public and concerted education, also eliminating social demand in the regulation of educational concerts or guaranteeing public places in areas of influence and new population or demanding that the concerted schools comply with an adequate and balanced schooling between the schools of the student with educational needs of support. Therefore, more inclusion and more quality and equity in the whole educational system, as well as greater autonomy of centres so that all these measures can combat segregation and help to guarantee that equity that we seek in the whole educational system. But aid for the purchase of textbooks and scholarships, which, by the way, the right and the independenceists have rejected in the State General Budgets, which are also key measures to prevent school segregation, are also essential. It is also key to regain the subjective right to receive scholarships, another measure included in the bill. Mr Sánchez, we agree on the substance of your motion, in the form we obviously have some discrepancies, and we regret that you did not want to accept any of our amendments, which I believe were important in modifying the whole of your motion, and which in a decisive way could help to prevent such school segregation throughout the education system. The new law contemplates many of the issues that you addressed in the motion, also collecting those contributions that appeared in the basic document to which you refer, how can we not contemplate them if the Socialist Party has been working on that basic document since its inception! We also agree on the principle of education, you know very well that we do not like differentiated education and that we have never liked public funds to go to centres that congregate units and that segregate students precisely because they are not enrolled in the same educational centre. We want to do everything we can to stop differentiated education, but we know that there are measures that are possible and others that the same Constitution avoids, so in this bill, measures are put in place to prioritize the principle of co-education in the education system and not to separate students by gender or by sexual orientation. There is also a great deal of progress in this bill with regard to early childhood education. The first cycle will be regulated, in addition to providing for an extension plan, so that sufficient supply is made with equity and quality, and priority will also be given to those children who may be at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has for years demanded funding worthy of the education system and in an additional provision of this law there is a commitment to acquire funding, so that we are consistent and comply with the word given in this plenary and in previous debates to provide adequate and necessary funding to the education system. Thus, progress is being made in recovering that 5% of GDP for Spanish education. We also agree with the creation of a State plan to regulate all measures to combat school segregation, logically because it is the autonomous communities that have competence in education. But what we cannot agree with is the proposal to create a single public network simply because it goes against the spirit of the Constitution, because it goes against the freedom of education that appears in the Constitution and the freedom of establishment of centres. And you know very well our approach to a secular school, what we are surprised is that you believe in miracles, because when you ask us to modify, to repeal the Lomce by means of real decrees you must remind them that miracles do not exist and that an organic law can not be repealed by means of real decrees. But he is well aware of our commitment to the computational modification of religion and the bill eliminates the obligation to offer religion in high school, and that there will also not be a mirror subject. In short, the Socialist Parliamentary Group rejects school segregation, as it is clearly reflected in this bill, which unfortunately will not see the light, but, of course, I guarantee you, Mr Sánchez, that we will see it very soon, in several months' time, and that there is a firm and serious commitment that the Socialist Government will repeal the Lomce and will bet on a new educational model; it will not simply end the segregation of the Lomce but will bet on a model that opens doors, avoids segregation and that will bet on the future of each and every Spanish child within the education system. There is no doubt about this because the Socialist Government has always opted for fair, equitable, quality and inclusive education for all and for all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u154	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Get out of the way. The Spanish educational model has been accompanying the different school segregations throughout its history. But it is no less true - as has been pointed out - that Lomce did what she did was lay the foundations for it to be perpetuated. And it is true - it has been pointed out - that there are segregations of different kinds; there is it by gender, which is the most obvious and the least modern and most retrograde, which separates boys and girls; there is it by origin, so that immigrants are educated alone and not mixed with our boys; there is it by income, that is, the elites to some schools and the rest to others, even though they then ask tax deductions and deductions for those who are educated in the elites; and linguistics, for example, in Nafarroa, when they decided earlier that the country had to be phonified, that the Navarra Foral Community had to be phonified so that part of the Navarra boys and girls would not learn their own official language, which King Sancho VI, the Wise, in 1167 described as 'Lingua navarrorum'. And to maintain all these segregations is to endanger equality of opportunity and social cohesion. We agree with the initiative put forward by the Podemos Group and we will support it, because we believe that what should be done is to repeal the Lomce and move in another very different direction, by the way, to which they point from other benches, which is that of the school offices, which manage the entire enrolment process in order to prevent certain places from becoming ghettos or becoming mass centres. Schools should be strengthened with greater diversity, ratios should be reduced and centres should be given more resources. Quality and inclusive education is thus guaranteed. We and we in Gasteiz have a centre that is put as paradigmatic throughout Europe because of its high level of concentration of immigrants, nothing comparable to the reality of immigrants in that neighborhood, because this segregation has been favored - as I say -. And there was an ILP, a popular legislative initiative, in the Parliament of Gasteiz - and I want today, at least, the vote to leave me another taste - which at that time the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party decided to overthrow, and it was a popular legislative initiative that called for the end of segregation. But - as I say - all this can be solved by repealing the Lomce and moving on different paths, because what we are never going to accept is what Mr Rivera proposed today: that if he becomes president, Spanish will be a vehicle language throughout Spain. They did not get it before and they will not get it now, and serve as an example only one UNESCO figure: in Europe there are 23 official languages in 27 States; none of these languages are threatened; there are 114 languages in those States that are threatened. Those of us who want our own language, the Basque language, will certainly not allow you to demise and democratic involutions like the one that arises to make sense.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Matute García de Jalón. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u156	Thank you, Madam President. The right segregates, and it is that the Lomce creates ghettos and segregates. It is a law that separates boys and girls by gender, disability, purchasing power and, indeed, also by religion. And it turns out that state laws are also up to us to apply them to autonomous governments, and that is why it is up to us to keep religion within the classrooms, as the law of the People's Party, of its partners, Mrs Martín, who should know a little more and criticize a little less who cannot modify that law from an autonomous government. Save the Children warns, in fact, that Spain is the sixth most segregated country in the European Union. One in ten schools can be considered a ghetto school. The UN also warns that Spain fails to comply with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by maintaining educational structures that exclude them from such education. And in case this were not enough, sex-segregated centers continue to proliferate in the Spanish state, maintaining an archaic and ultra-conservative education. And while all this happens, what is the concern of the right? For citizens, the Valencian, and for the People's Party, let us lower the ratios of the classrooms. But, in the face of all these policies of confrontation and segregation, our policies of inclusion and educational dignity, no matter how much it hurts them: free textbooks; more dining grants and throughout the year; 6,000 more teaching places, just those that the People's Party took over with its cuts; reduction of the student by classroom; education from 0 to 3 free; more schools built, half of the children who were in barracks with the People's Party while keeping the money of the Ciegsa case in their pockets. And in the face of the educational model of the ghetto and the segregation of the right, an education where all boys and girls belong, because equality should be the goal of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u158	Good afternoon; good afternoon, ladies. [[Start your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Mrs Martin, before I go into this matter I will say that when I saw you come up to the rostrum I thought it was good news that Mr Singing let you carry the educational issues of your party - it is a relief and a rest - but either Mr Singing has passed the notes or you have wronged. He said that linguistic immersion segregated when if there is one thing that does not exactly make linguistic immersion is segregating, and less for linguistic reasons. As I say, what the model of linguistic immersion does is to ensure knowledge of the two co-official languages in Catalonia, Catalan and Spanish, as well as that each and every Catalan student has knowledge of the two languages. What segregates is the model you are trying to push from here and impose in Catalonia, that is segregation, but not the system of linguistic immersion. Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I appreciate your attempt until the last moment to work on an educational reform project for this country, but I am afraid it is late. I will remind you of what I always remind you, first of all, that it is essential to make a profound reform of the education system in this country, which patches are no longer worth. Secondly, we must take the things that generate great consensus and push them forward. Today is surely a good day to remember that the Socialist Party voted against an amendment that guaranteed and shielded linguistic immersion in Catalonia just a few weeks ago. Thirdly, we need initiatives that guarantee the competences of those governments that have competences in the field of education. For this reason, we are going to abstain from this initiative until the time comes for the great in-depth reform that the education system in this country needs. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief, I don't think it consumes the time I have. Firstly, Mr de Podemos, who presented the initiative - I have told you in private before - I think we will agree on the opportunity. Either the time has passed or something like that, because today they raise a motion with a number of points on which one can agree or not, but which are some sort of amendment to the law that has not arrived - and that I also say to the Socialist Party - and that it should have arrived. [[Rumors]] I understand it took time, but if we don't have it now, as much as they've approved it... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u162	As much as it was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday, it was an hour after saying that the elections will be on 28 April, which seems to me to be a bit Kafkian. We would have given him time for this law to have developed, because the purpose of those whom we conjured up here was to repeal the Lomce, and we leave this legislature without doing so, we leave without a new bill. The amendments that you put forward in motion format could have enriched it because we share some issues that you raise, some principles, because the school model that we share with the majority of Basque society has many elements in common with what you say, but we also raise a number of other issues that you consider taboo. We have a concerted model in Euskadi, which I believe is working and which does not create any problems in that regard. We must leave a little freedom, but we share the principles. Obviously, we will never defend certain segregations because our model is not that of the school that differentiates boys from girls or that segregates for another series of reasons, of course not. In any case, you have forgotten one thing, and that is that there are certain issues that, as much as you put on the motion that are the competence of the State, are not, and we also do not want them to be. The Autonomous Communities, at least that of Euskadi, have the power, the capacity and the desire to legislate in this matter in order to be able to do precisely an inclusive school, to be able to do a plural school, to be able to do a school in which they all fit, and we have plans such as the schooling of pupils of foreign origin in the school system of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and another series of plans that have been made precisely for this purpose. We should look for the reasons why this is generated from what we are talking about, but we cannot carry everything behind the back of education because there are many other reasons that make it happen, for example, that there are only a large number of immigrant staff in a school: we will have to see what the price of housing, the socio-economic reasons, the neighborhoods or the desires that humans also have to join with our fellow people. All that has to be analyzed. Therefore, one cannot have only one vision. I don't know what others want to do with their educational models, but we want a Basque school that enhances those values, that is inclusive, that is plural, that defends the identity signs of a culture like the one we have and that is open to the world. If they go that way, we'll meet on the way. Dogmas we don't want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you, please, to remain silent, to feel if you wish to do so or to leave, as you wish, but, if you want to speak, to do so at least in the lowest possible tone so that the person who is speaking can concentrate on what you are saying. Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u164	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, it is always difficult to speak in the witch hour at the last point, and today also twilight as to the time remaining for us in this XII Legislature; therefore, it is a double challenge that I hope I can take on. First observation: Lomce will not be abrogated, and to one who wants education, who is a teacher, comes a problem of conscience. Is it because of the Catalan independenceists who have not approved the budget? Is that how it's going to be? Three years ago the XI Legislature began, in January 2016, and the Socialist Party preferred to make a pact with Citizens... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u165	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u166	...where the Lomce disappeared. Yes, this group voted against and I am very satisfied. Then began the XII Legislature and in October Mariano Rajoy was president of the government for the abstention of the Socialist Party. He stopped talking about the Lomce, and even from this rostrum they told me: it is that it cannot be repealed. Men smarter than me, and women, who are smarter than men, told me this was impossible. One, who knows the essentials of laws, was puzzled, but not convinced, and fortunately, with those parliamentary miracles that the independenceists' totally free votes were accepted, began a short legislature in time, but interesting in Government, which ends in a few days. Then it did seem that the Lomce can be repealed. At the beginning of three years ago - as time passes, my sienes have been silvered; no, I already had silver, although three years pass very quickly, but there is always, and that is good, inheritances - I arrived here with an inheritance of the X Legislature, an inheritance composed of the signatures of all parliamentary groups, except the People's Party, which said: in the next legislature we will repeal the Lomce. It wasn't in the XI or the XII legislatures. For after April 28 I make a proposal to you: that the law that you have presented this Friday - that you have not presented it to us to the groups previously although there was the compromise, but it is the same, we forgive it - be the basis of the educational project of your Government with whomever it is. It would be good if this proposal based on a repeal of the Logse with elements of the LOE and others that we can discuss of 2019 is the basis. I have a certain fear that dismemberment in the light of parliamentary majorities may give us another displeasure. In the same way that this Republican Left Group wanted to fulfill what the X Legislature proposed, I am sure - whether it is a member or not of this Congress, to which I really congratulate for its action on many issues; in others we could certainly not do more - that this Republican Left Group will be for there to be an education law as a basis for possible changes. The decree, comrades of Podemos, seems unnecessary to us, because it would be asking pears from an elm that will not give chestnuts - no, do not give the chestnut elms, that I know - but that will bear fruit in another time that will not be the next days. We are on it, as we must also make it clear that the Catalan folder, which is a political folder, is now in the hands of the judiciary. When this folder is returned to the right site, which is to the policy, we will also understand each other in more topics. Today Raül Romeva has made it clear to the court: the political dossier will never be judicial. We will persevere and, gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, when you take your hands off the eyes of Catalonia will continue to exist. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u168	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote no to this Podemos motion, just as we would have voted no to the government's educational counter-reform if it had entered this House in time and form. And we are going to vote not because we are tired, and we do not intend to allow the most radical left to use education again to impose its ideology and to indoctrinate. We will vote not because the bill passed last Friday, far from being 'triphalic' - as the Minister of Justice would say - is triphalic, since it unites socialists, puemites and independenceists. I do not know whether they will remember that three years ago, when the legislature began, we all agreed on one thing, that this division of seats that had emerged from the ballot box was an opportunity; it was an opportunity for us to adopt great consensus and make great pacts during this legislature. I do not know whether they will remember that both we and the media and most of society agreed on the need for a great pact for education. We see it necessary, from my parliamentary group, that all the Spaniards know that, while he ruled the People's Party, he did work to achieve this pact. However, when the Socialist Government arrived, what it has done is to try to impose its model, a model that has already been proven to be a failing model. [[Applauds]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the eighty-three representatives for their contributions and the Members of my parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, who, led by Mrs Sandra Moneo, have done a great deal of work in the Committee on Education for a year and a half to try to achieve this pact. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Sánchez Government has been the shortest government in our democracy and also the one that has done the Spanish the most harm. It took Rodriguez Zapatero seven years, this government only took seven months. It has been a demagogic government, it has been a sectarian government and it has also been the government of lies and plagiarism and rectification. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u170	The Minister of Education will be reminded of her events at the press conference of the Council of Ministers. And I would like to recall one today, and I quote textually: 'The obligation of every government is to maintain itself'. Do you remember her? Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, reflect. How could Pedro Sánchez, having a resistance manual, not be able to resist? How has Pedro Sánchez, using all the means at his disposal, managed to keep himself in power only a few months? [[Rumors.-Protests]] The answer is simple, ladies and gentlemen, that the Socialist Party is no longer a party with a sense of state and, therefore, the Socialist Party is no longer a party of government. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Do not ask the Member who is speaking. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u172	However, the People's Party is again prepared to govern and has a proposal for reform in the field of education that is what Spanish society needs. We believe in a system that eliminates nationalist indoctrination and leftist dogmatism; in an educational system that makes our young people more competitive, because given the globalized world in which we live this is absolutely necessary; in an educational system that guarantees the parents' freedom to choose the school they want to take their children to, because we do not believe that a postal code has to determine which school your child has to go to and therefore we believe in the single district. We believe in a system that guarantees the teaching of Spanish throughout the national territory, because we do not believe in discrimination. Why use language to divide society? We also believe in a bilingual and trilingual model in the autonomous communities where there is a co-official language. We also believe and bet on dual vocational training and on the subjects that make young people more competitive and prepare them for the fourth industrial revolution, a revolution that, ladies and gentlemen, has already arrived. We also believe in respect for the teacher and the need for a teacher's eye throughout Spain. We are consistent, ladies and gentlemen, as the Government is not. The Minister of Science studied in a private school, the Minister of Education in a Catholic concerted school, as did the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior or the Vice President, and I am convinced that if at this time I asked the bench on my left how many of you have studied in a concerted school or how many of you take your children to a concerted school would raise many hands. [[Applauds]] I'm not gonna do it, just relax. I'm not gonna put them in that squeeze, but I'm sure they'd get a lot of hands up. Therefore, we do not understand that you attack concerted education. We do not understand that you do not allow others what you have done. The only explanation for this is the double morale of the left, which has always existed and will always exist. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not deserve a president who is more in the clouds than stepping on the street. Spain does not deserve a president who confuses Moncloa with Ferraz. Spain does not deserve a president who complies with a mediocre education. Spain does not need or deserve a president to make an educational reform a political reform whose sole objective is to indoctrinate. [[Applauds]] Spain needs a serious president, a president with clear ideas, a president who believes in freedom, like Pablo Casado; a president who aspires to obtain an education of quality and excellence, a president who, as long as he is president, does not dedicate himself to writing books but to writing the future of our country, a stronger and more united country. [[rumors.-Protests]] [[applause]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Mrs. Hoyo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u174	I'm done, president, telling you to win the best. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hoyo. In two minutes, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María Rosa Martínez Rodríguez, I ask dona María del Carmen Iglesias Camarero if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u177	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u178	Doña María del Carmen Iglesias Camarero has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u179	We begin voting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Quiet. We voted, first of all, on the proposal by the Parliament of the Balearic Islands for the reform of the Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February on the reform of the Statute of Autonomous Communities of the Balearic Islands, for the abolition of the suffocation of Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and Members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u180	It is therefore taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u181	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress, which is organic, amending the Criminal Code, to strengthen the rule of law and the institutions of the State. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; 165; 176 plus 2 telematics votes, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u182	Therefore, it is not taken into account. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u183	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. First, the non-law proposal of the People's Group in Congress, which calls on the Government of Spain to recognize the legitimate president of Venezuela, Don Juan Guaidó. The vote was taken on the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause. - Rumors.]] Mr. Cañamero. The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 258 against, 80 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u184	It was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO ERRADICING PROSTITUTION AND TREATMENT OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN FOR SEXUAL EXPLOITATION. [[File number 162/000904]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u185	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to eradicate prostitution and trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. [[Rumors]] Quiet. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 231 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u186	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u187	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the need for the European Commission to urgently request the application of the safeguard clause of Article 34 of the European Union Economic Partnership Agreement with the Community of South African States to ensure that citrus fruits are not imported from South Africa without guarantees of proper inspection. [[Mr. Baldoví]] We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u188	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, on the need to eliminate THE GROWING SEGREGATION IN THE SPANISH EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM IN THE FIELD OF A NEW EDUCATIONAL LAW. [[File number 173/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u189	We voted for the motion following urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the need to eliminate the growing segregation in the Spanish educational system through a new education law. We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 71 against, 135 abstentions, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-19-CD190219.u190	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
