ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the point relating to the Senate amendments. Amendments approved by the Senate to the bill amending the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April, and incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 and Directive 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 from the Royal Decree-Law 2/2018 of 13 April. The Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti, took part in the position-setting session.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly. The truth is that it comes back from the Senate something that was discussed here and after doing so I told the minister - then Mendez de Vigo - in this House that he was the teacher or the correcting minister because he rectified all those issues that we had reminded him from so many areas that he had to rectify. There is no doubt that we will now also vote in favour because the amendments that have been incorporated do not consider them to be excessively dangerous, in fact enriching in some way. The problem we had here when we were at risk of this project becoming something no one wanted, but fortunately many groups conjured up so that it would not be so. At the time, four years ago, when intellectual property law was dealt with in a summer, some of us included the issue of private copying, which could not be the way the People's Party wanted it to be. And after four years they gave us all the reason for accepting what the subject of private copying should be, because that invention that Montoro made, through the General Budgets of the State, did not end up compensating, did not end up collecting or doing anything. Today we complete a process that has been long, that has been discussed, that people have participated well and that can use us to have a legal framework on this issue so complicated, that unfortunately in some management entities it is becoming something almost already lame. I therefore hope that, with this amendment, at least this law can be put into effect before the end of this parliamentary term. I hope that the authors, the people who have property rights, will be able to function peacefully, and the others, the citizens, will have the peace that these rights will be managed well and that no one will harm anyone. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u3	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro. [[Pause]] He's not present. For the Citizens Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying something I have already said here on other occasions: Our culture is what we are, the best of ourselves. In the future, when few remember our names, what will have remained of this time will surely be a work of art: a book, whose thought changes the understanding of this era; a film, which managed to open a new door in the collective imagination, or a musical work, which renewed the sensibility of those who heard it. It is this immeasurable greatness of culture that commits the State and forces it to put itself at his service, which is the same as putting itself at the service of what will be the legacy of our era and thus ensure, to the extent of our possibilities, for all the good and beautiful that is in this world. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the best legislature to set as an example of efficient parliamentarianism, it will last less than three years, during which we have experienced a motion of censure, a change of government, a set budget and some scenes that I personally prefer to forget. However, as the division in this House grew and deepened, a Commission has spent the last few months working with the sole objective of undertaking essential reforms to the Intellectual Property Act. This work began with the People's Party government, and I have to remind here the then Secretary of State for Culture, Fernando Benzo, who met almost a year ago with all the groups to deal with the transposition of Directives 2014/26/EU and 2017/1564, to explore the possibilities they offered to bring about substantial changes in the Intellectual Property Act. So we started working four parties together and so we continued to work after a change of government, in which at all times we had the support of Minister José Guirao. The task was developed in marathon days that lasted nine hours, days in each of us left the ideology at the entrance. It was easy because what we were doing was outside of any political position. We were devoting our efforts to what many of your ladies and gentlemen are devoting their best hours: to cultivate consensus to seek solutions to the problems of the Spaniards. With this decreeley the efficiency of the intellectual property rights market is being improved and guarantees and control tools and transparency requirements are being established in the management entities; the voting system is being improved; the rights of the partners are being strengthened; a decisive step is being taken to curb the abuses of the so-called wheel, which was scandalously altering the distribution of the rights of the musical composers. The text establishes a system of subscription of tariffs between holders and users that will reduce litigation and guarantee the rights of creators, centralizes the payment by library loan, introduces the power of the Administration to promote the development of codes of conduct between electronic payment brokerage and advertising services, and we also take a step forward in the fight against piracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of saying that culture is of no interest to anyone, and I fear that in some way it is true, but in this parliamentary term the Committee on Culture has devoted itself to becoming parliamentarians, to seeking places of consensus, to building a wall that defends the work of political forces against any element that could distract, disturb or condition and thus be able to do what we were chosen to do: to work for the benefit of the citizens. [[Applauds]] The work carried out, of which the decree voted here today is an essential part, is the closest thing to that pact of State for culture that appears on all political agendas and that no one talks about again once the election campaigns are over. I think we have reason to be proud of the way the Committee on Culture and Sport proceeded, a course that we opened almost two years ago, in which four political parties were knocking at the door of the Ministry of Development and meeting with the then Minister Íñigo de la Serna to explain to him that the facade of the National Library was beginning to have small detachments that had to be fixed and had no money to do so. I still remember the minister, as hospitable as perplexed, studying the documentation that we were carrying as he blinked when he saw the spokesmen of the People's Party, the PSOE, the Unidad Podemos and the Citizens coming into his office to ask him exactly the same thing. I must say that the minister understood the importance of what we put to him and he responded to our demand. The day the scaffolding was placed on the facade of the National Library I put my colleagues a message in the group's chat and I said: gentlemen, these scaffoldings we have put among all. [[Applauds]] From there, we understood that there was a way of working that could give us great satisfaction, even if that meant giving up on individual medals, and we did so. The next challenge was the Artist's Statute, the definitive one, the transposition of this directive. To those who follow the information of Congress I ask that they also tell these things, that they do not transmit to the citizens that after the Gate of the Lions there are only discrepancies and noise, and that the culture with capitals is the most powerful tool to eliminate differences and unite wills. We were not the creators of all this, but the goal that united us: to improve the situation of creators and cultural industries. I want to make a special mention here of the Commission's lawyer, Ignacio Astarloa, He has been a modern Ulises who, fearing that the ship's crew might be contaminated by the siren chants, advised us not to listen to them. It was not necessary to put wax in our ears, it was enough to follow his example when we saw him every day tied to the main pole of the Rules of Congress and the laws. Apart from that, there is nothing, but under his protection the most difficult things can be possible. Thank you, Ignacio, for guiding us into the maze. [[Applauds]] And now that this legislature is coming to an end, let me extend here all my gratitude, all our gratitude, to the staff of the Congress of Deputies, who have been for all in these months the best example of rigour and dedication to public service. [[Applauds]] Dear Emilio, spokesman for the People's Group, dear José Andrés, spokesman for the Socialist Group, dear Eduardo, spokesman for the United Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, dear Felix, spokesman for Citizens, thank you from the heart for these months in which I have learned what politics is with capitals. We've done a serious, meticulous and discreet job, the job we have to do, the job that brought us here. And I think we can all say, mission accomplished. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u5	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Maura Zorita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u6	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this reform of the Law on Intellectual Property is the result of an arduous process and, for our part, also of a conviction, the conviction that the cultural ecosystem has to be sustainable, it has to be able to be inhabited by public and private agents, small, medium and large, self-managed agents, half-breeds, transvestites, mixed of all kinds and conditions. And the more sustainable the ecosystem, the more diverse, and the more diverse, the more sustainable. This tension between being diverse, sustainable and accessible is the main characteristic of culture, in particular culture in a time of transformation, transformation of the public sphere, models of digital property, business models, forms of consumption and aesthetic experiences. And in this expanded field, certainly the Intellectual Property Act must be a pillar of sustainability, to which I have referred. My first consideration must be self-criticism. The double transposition that we have completed today does not take care of all the problems that I have mentioned. It takes more than a double transposition, it takes a comprehensive reform of the Intellectual Property Law and it is not. In the absence of that reform, I must say that both the Confederal Group and the other parliamentary groups have endeavoured to introduce elements that were needed. We have applied ourselves thoroughly and it has been a privilege to do so. There are things that we do not share in this reform, such as the amendment of Article 195, and others give rise to doubts. For example, we do not believe in the administrative paradigm as a means of resolving conflicts in the expanded digital field. And although we do not vote on this issue today, which has already been resolved in the Senate, I do not want to fail to point out the need for a paradigm shift in this and other matters. There are also many things that we value positively about this reform. I'm going to rescue three for going to the most important ones. The first issue we have rescued is the introduction of the principle of traceability between collection and distribution in Articles 175 to 177, which we believe is key in terms of transparency. There is a need to walk towards less repertory pending identification and towards more security for authors, authors and users. The second aspect is the new fifth final provision, which will allow in a market such as cultural, often unbalanced and opaque, professional associations and trade unions to report on average market prices. Reporting average market prices will help us never again to encounter dark negotiations or offensive offers, when not aggressively and violently below market price. So also in culture, and thanks to some of the people who are here today, never again alone and alone. Finally, the third aspect that I want to highlight is the great achievement of this reform, in my opinion, which has only been possible by assuming large amounts of conflict, after many talks and meetings - it has been mentioned briefly before - very dog-like, with great confidence and with great personal and political effort. I mean the wheel. I won't deny we had a bad time. I will not deny that we have had a very bad time, but it seems fair to me to recognize the hardness of the process, first of all, out of gratitude and, secondly, because what we regulate today bears the mark of that effort. The wheel of television and some of the SGAE's partners, some with such important responsibilities as the presidency, had colonized collective management, had unbalanced an already unstable musical and audiovisual ecosystem, undervalued socially and with pressing problems of precariousness. And it is that the wheel that we regulate today and to which we put the limit is not only inefficient and private, it is also a factor of impoverishment of Spanish music, of distorting the cultural and business diversity of a few who relegate at the end of the night what should have their gap in the first time and I dare say that its gap by law at least in the first time of RTVE: ultimately, the music made, co-produced, appropriate in Spain and interpreted in Spain in any of its manifestations, languages, genres, appropriations or supports. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Spanish music - although not only this one - is precarious to the core and is out of the public media, except as reality or as a talent show, which is not enough, but also about. Meanwhile, we have encountered that some with important responsibilities sold us that the salvation of Spanish music is nothing less than in a business that is only accessed through opaque connections and without cultural criteria known by more than some of these people have highly respectable careers, which, if they have - and I respect them - it is not precisely because of the wheel and it is not precisely because of the night strip. This Government, among other things, has had to ask the National Court for the intervention of the SGAE to adapt its statutes to the law and to remove government bodies that continue to establish disproportionate distribution criteria. I hope that this intervention, which I would like to welcome from here in my last participation from the rostrum, will help to strengthen the path towards a balanced, healthy and transparent collective management, since the challenges facing Spanish culture can only be tackled in a collective, common and concerted manner. So far the Intellectual Property Act and so far the Senate amendments that we have received and voted on today. Before I left, I wanted to ask you one thing and thank you for another. What I want to ask you to do is make a good campaign. I want to ask you to make a good campaign, because what we have in April and also in May is not an electoral doublet, it is a democratic and intuitive culture examination that we do not get to that particularly good democratic culture examination. We arrive in a very vulnerable way and all the people and parties we are here are deeply vulnerable, as we surely demonstrate in every control session and every day we meet. We are very vulnerable, but not only parties, but also people, democratic institutions and as a society. I am going to ask you to fight a lot in April and to fight a lot in May, but not to fight for a codazo on the right or a degree on the left, but to fight for the conditions of the playground, to fight for a non-toxic democratic public sphere, to fight for a way of doing politics in some decontaminated way, because I am convinced that the rivals of democracy - and, even more, their most powerful enemies - with those conditions of play and in that favorable playground have much less to do and much more to lose. Then, I insist, do not fight for one degree or another, neither to the right, nor to the left, nor to the center, do so, please, for the playground, I really ask you in the first person of the singular and with all the strength I still have. And I end up saying goodbye, as usual, and as it can't be otherwise, talking about other people.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u7	Mr. Maura, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u8	Thank you, President, it's very brief and I'm very whole. I am grateful to the people who have taught me and helped me both inside and outside this House, starting with cultural agents, associations, trade unions, collectives, the staff of the ministries with which I have worked, to the ministers Méndez de Vigo and Guirao, to their teams, to our president for chairing, which is not a small thing, to all the people who work in this House - personal, press, all of them - to Ignacio Astaroa for so many things that have been said and what I will say, to my colleagues and teammates and technical team for the honor of serving with you - thank you for letting me serve with you - to the members of the Committee on Culture and their spokespersons, its president, and very particularly to those who have spent more hours together, Marta Rivera, José Andrés Torres Mora, Félix Álvarez and Emilio del Río. Thanks to the magical people of Podemos Cultura, that original Podemos Cultura, and Elena Gallego, because I have sweated to be up to your level and it turns out that in the latter balance all the correct are yours and all the mistakes, mine. I've given up my life, we've given up our lives, comrades, and now I can't help but think that I'm leaving, that I wish I'd done better and that maybe I could have done better. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u9	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Maura Zorita for his thanks to everyone, but I am going to ask everyone that, if they want to give thanks, give them in time, do not give them away from him, because, if not, we will have a problem. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] I am also grateful for the spirit that is being seen this morning in the House, for me it is very good and very positive. Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. For the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the Senate amendments to the bill to reform the Intellectual Property Act. With this reform we have wanted to do two things. The first is to fulfil the mandate set out in article 27 of the Declaration of Human Rights, which states in its first paragraph - I open quotes -: 'Everyone has the right to take part freely in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to participate in scientific progress and in the benefits that result from it'. And he goes on to say: 'Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests that correspond to him because of the scientific, literary or artistic productions of which he is the author'. I close quotes. The second thing we have done has been to improve the democratic control and transparency of the institutions that, on behalf of creators and artists, manage and defend their rights, which we consider very necessary and which is why we feel that we must protect. This reform was born with one Government and culminates with another, but to a large extent it is the daughter of this Parliament and is the result of deliberation and agreement between us. I understand that the temptation to campaign from this rostrum is great, but anyone who knows how to count will understand that, given the composition of the House, what we approve today is not the imposition of any Government but the agreement of all political groups, and we have done so by the will to strike a fair balance between the different competing rights and interests that make cultural creation in our country sustainable. As was said in Andalusia of my youth, the land for which it works, and the agreement as well. We would not have arrived here without the work, intelligence and encouragement of many people and institutions: of course, of Minister Méndez de Vigo and of the Secretary of State for Culture, Mr Benzo, at the beginning of the journey, and of Minister Guirao and his ministry at its completion. Along with the ministers, I also thank the Ministry of Culture, its officials and, among them, Mr Guervós, and also the copyright management bodies and users of the protected works. We have listened to many people and all of them have helped us to better understand the complexity and needs of the sector we have regulated. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission and in the presentation, and especially my friends Eduardo Maura, Emilio del Río and Marta Rivera. Thank you for your intelligence, your outstanding courage and honesty. And, of course, thank you, Mr. Counselor, thank you, Ignacio Astarloa. It has not been an easy task, neither is it, social life always leads to a certain level of conflict, but in the case of intellectual property I have the impression that this conflict is something more accentuated than it should be. Over the ten years I have had the honour of being the spokesman of the Socialist Group in the Committee on Culture, I have seen how, driven by greed, naivety or human stupidity, there are people who, on the pretext of defending the right of universal access to culture, have tried to undermine the rights of those who create cultural works and, harming creators, have harmed creation; impoverishing artists and interpreters have harmed Spanish culture. During this time I have come to the conviction, perhaps exaggerated, that there are powerful sectors of our society that are willing to spend more money on lawyers in order not to pay the rights of creators than it would cost them to pay those rights, with the aggravating fact that the time and resources devoted to that war make them lose magnificent business opportunities and the possibility of greater cultural development for all. [[applause]] I do not ask you to stop sending us lawyers - what would be of humanity without lawyers - but we would also appreciate you coming with good economic, sociological and comparative legal reports. Quality democracy, quality parliamentaryism in an increasingly complex society must improve their knowledge systems. In our work in the paper we have found that the real problems we have had are problems with information; it is asymmetries in information that make it difficult for us to make fair, effective and timely regulations. At least from my experience, I do not believe that it is the political weakness of our democracies that is the result of a moral, but cognitive, deficiency. It is not evil, but ignorance that can lead us to act improperly. Of course, you have to be too smart to realize you're not. Our democracy needs to improve the intelligence of its procedures and institutions, what happens is that information is expensive and even more expensive knowledge - of wisdom and I don't speak to them - and there are people who are much more willing to praise democracy than to invest in it, and we have to invest in our democracy. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, behind the Presidency is the Hall of Lost Steps, but, thanks to the body of stenographers and stenographers, this is not the hall of lost words. I would like to use my last words of the legislature to express my gratitude and wish all the staff of the house and, of course, all your ladies and gentlemen much luck in their lives. I don't remember anymore - it's been a long time - if it was my teacher Luis Plaza in high school philosophy classes, or Juan Trias Vejarano in History of Ideas and Political Forms in Sociology, but I'm sure it was one of them who for the first time I heard him quote the famous phrase of Hegel that says: 'Only at dusk lifts the flight the octopus of Minerva'. Now, that I have a lot more years than they had when they taught me class, I can feel what I thought I understood then. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe that it is necessary to start this last speech of this Parliament before the plenary of the House, recognizing and thanking the work and, even more so, the commitment of all the members of the Committee on Culture and of course our lawyer to the cultural industry in our country and to its creators. They must also understand that I give special recognition and thanks to my colleagues in the parliamentary group in the Commission and, above all, to the spokespersons Emilio del Río and Miguel Lorenzo, and, of course, to the spokespersons of the rest of the parliamentary groups, Eduardo - a warm greeting and all my gratitude for the work you have done in this House and for your very special commitment to culture - José Andrés, Felix and, of course, our chairman of the committee, Marta Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, this last intervention is not only to thank - in fact, some have taken advantage of and will take advantage of the debate on the next initiatives to say goodbye or to address the House in another direction - but it also has to be to take stock, and it is an agri-sweet balance. While the work of the Commission has been agile and productive for culture - there are initiatives adopted by consensus as important as the status of the artist or the processing of the Intellectual Property Act - my group considers that, after eight months of government of the Socialist Party, the balance sheet is that these eight months have brought our culture to a failed legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Culture has done its job and has done it well - as Mrs Rivera said: Mission accomplished - but not counting on the complicity of the socialist government or on the speed and agility of the management of the ministry, I believe that everything that could have been done has not been done. I give you an example, the status of the artist. After months of intense work, the Socialist Government passed a royal decree-law on 28 December that did not convince anyone, forcing its processing as a bill to correct and improve it. After so many months of work within the Commission, after so many appearances and so much consensus in the Commission, the work not well done by the Government provoked the processing of the decree-law as a bill; processing that will be failed by the dissolution of the Courts and the status of the artist, after so many months of work - I insist - will go to the drawer. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the Socialist Government has been able to take advantage of the positive inertia of the administration of the People's Party Government; a positive management reflected in the growth of cultural employment in more than 80 000 people during President Rajoy's stage. The Culture 2020 Plan was adopted by consensus, but it is a status that has remained undeveloped. The new model of film financing was approved, also by consensus, but we have seen that this model of financing has not been improved by introducing new support for the animation or production of international cinema. Measures were taken to promote micro-mecenation, but we have not seen a law of sponsorship, a law that has been registered by the People's Party. In short, there have been unresolved problems that were already under consideration, such as the resale of tickets or the creation of an anti-piracy prosecutor's office. They started the legislature badly, with erratic appointments, continued it erratically with film aid and ended it with the decision of a few days ago to request the intervention of the SGAE. Today, the amendment of the Intellectual Property Act is being finalized, a work that has once again been done by the Cultural Commissions of Congress and the Senate, and which has been, as I say, outside the Government; a law that brought the People's Party Government to the House. It is true that the new law improves the transparency, supervision and control of management entities, restores a balance between creators and users who exploit their works, strengthens the presence of the Ministry of Culture in the first section of the Commission on Intellectual Property, which ensures ex ante and ex post that the tariffs are equitable, has stopped the wheel, it has been agreed to close websites quickly in case of strict recidivism or if there has previously been a judicial decision. Finally, today, we voted on the Senate amendments. We believe that, although they are timely, in some cases they are short; amendments which we believe are timely, but which have been or have been able to be clearly improved. Some are of a technical nature; others, in relation to tariffs and the possibility of instigating the procedure of fixing them by the associations of users, concerning the fees in production contracts or the right of participation in the case of resale of works in gallery. It also deepens once again the transparency in the management of collective copyright management entities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, important steps have been taken, but we understand that much remains to be improved in the Intellectual Property Act; that thanks to consensus, which I understand has not only prevailed in this legislature, but will continue to prevail in the next one, the next legislature will be an opportunity to settle outstanding accounts with culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u13	Thank you very much. The Minister wants to speak. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u14	President, ladies and gentlemen, last May 10, the Congress of Deputies confirmed Royal Decree-Law 2/2018 of 13 April, which in turn agreed to its processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure, thus ensuring the incorporation into the Spanish legal order of the Directive on the collective management of copyright and the Directive on certain uses of works and services protected by copyright in favour of persons with visual disabilities. At that time, Congress considered that the importance of this legal reform, although it needed to be carried out by royal decree-law in order to avoid, for reasons of time, a sanctioning procedure by the European Commission against Spain, also demanded that such urgent approval be compatible with a subsequent debate and nuanced at parliamentary level, so that the regulation of collective management of intellectual property rights would also be the result of the greatest possible political consensus. I would like to thank in a very special way the intense, delicate, extremely technical work of all those who in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate have made possible the text that is approved today as a law, but above all I would like to thank the spirit of consensus and agreement that have presided over the work in both Houses in treating the Law on Intellectual Property as a key text for the development of the Spanish cultural and creative industries, for the export of the content produced by our musical, literary or audiovisual creators and for the greater possible access of all of us to those contents with full respect for the rights of authors, producer interpreters and all those who make those contents possible. I would like to highlight from this work the fit of the last few months, the progress towards a law on intellectual property that, on the one hand, gives a greater guarantee in the sure remuneration of the efforts of the creators, entails a strengthening of the rules of transparency and good governance of the management entities, especially in areas such as traceability, collection and distribution of rights that avoid situations of conflict of interest within the entity or of lack of proportionality and equity, which gives greater legitimacy to the procedure of determining the rates that are submitted to the first section of the Commission on Intellectual Property and a more balanced composition of this collegiate body that allows more experts in this branch of law, which is crucial for the sustainability of the Spanish cultural and creative industries. In addition, it reinforces and accelerates administrative tools to combat the violation of intellectual property rights on the Internet and the collaboration of information society service providers in the fight against these violations that put at risk the capacity of the cultural industry as a niche for wealth creation and jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I had a few brief words prepared for me to say, but I deeply regret that the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party has today broken the consensus and spirit of the work that we have had in the Commission. [[Several Members: Hala!]] It was not time to criticize the Government today, you have not done so in appropriate terms. To criticize the government it has every day; it was time to recognize the work of the Committee on Culture, of all those who have made an effort, of the lawyers and of all others who have collaborated. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with those words: Culture has once again given an example that harmony, calm debate, rationality and the search for agreement bear fruit. Along this path there can be good fruits not only for culture, but for all the essential issues that occupy and worry the Spaniards. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u16	We moved on to amendments passed by the Senate to the draft law regulating real estate credit contracts. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde, took part in the position-setting session.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on; good morning to everyone and everyone. After the Senate procedure, I could almost repeat the reasons that I put forward when the initial approval was given to explain why we will vote against it, both because the opportunity to legislate in favour of consumers has been lost and because the countless European judgments in this regard are being ignored and, moreover, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the legality of embargoes is not expected, it is not going to be a new blow to the disastrous management that has been made by the various governments in this area. Following his passage through the Senate, the legalization of the abusive clauses that different sentences had rendered ineffective, now opening the door again to new evictions. We focused on the denunciation of two main elements. On the one hand, the retroactivity of the early maturity, which will apply to all contracts - more than 6 million active mortgages with this clause -. The addition introduced in the Senate, unless it is more favourable to the debtor, we understand that it is an insult to intelligence because it is something that is not done in practice. The only way to protect the rights of debtors would be to nullify retroactivity in all cases, because, if not, what is presented as an advance is ultimately a new trap. On the other hand, as far as the interest of delay is concerned, even though the Supreme has already ruled that the more than 2 points above the legal interest are abusive, it is legalized that it can be 3 points above. The rest of the changes that have been made will also not count on our support. Exceptions are made to allow what should be avoided, such as the sale linked to insurance and financial products other than the loan itself. They always look for ways to benefit the bank, as in the case of the property transfer tax. Just agree to join our model, to exempt the first home, when it is the bank that must pay the tax and not when it was the one that bought a home. Finally, I will mention the compensation to the bank for the early repayment or amortisation of the loan. Far from stopping penalizing those who can pay it before, they are again looking for ways to favor the lender: they go up the percentage to pay for it and so - I insist - the bank always wins. That is why we voted against it in its day and we will do it again today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u18	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u19	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. We have said many times that for us the financial crisis has shown bad regulation, excessive credit growth and bad practice on the part of the entities in granting them, behaviors that, in addition, had important social and economic consequences for many families and people and that have not only weakened, even broken, the confidence of consumers in the financial sector, but have also undermined the foundations of that sector. The attribution of responsibilities in the regulation and provision of mortgage credits depends not only on the limited mortgage regulation or bad practice of banks, but also on other factors. In this regard, we recognize that it is possible that consumers may have been more or less cautious when asking for credit, but what should be discussed is whether they have had enough information about what they were hiring and, ultimately, the imbalance in the relationship between banking entities and customers. Therefore, with this new law we have tried to strike a balance in the whole regulation and for all the interveners, taking into account, on the one hand, the need to give greater protection to people who are in debt in order to buy a house or a real estate, and that consumers and banking entities are not in the same position; on the other hand, the caution, rigour and prudence that a banking entity must have in granting a credit, so that the risk analysis presides over this concession, without forgetting that the business of a banking entity is that of lending money. It should also be recalled that the response to specific housing measures is in the hands of the autonomous communities that have competence in this area and are therefore responsible for regulating and not for the Real Estate Credit Act. We must recognise that this law is also a consequence of the numerous judgments of the European courts and the transposition of the corresponding directive, which echoed the consequences of the crisis and which, in the end, has sought to respond to a complex situation and to provide legal certainty with better rules than there have been so far. With regard to the amendments adopted in the Senate and which are being debated here today, I would like to say that the bill submitted by Congress reduced the fees for cancellation or early repayment in the case of fixed interest-rate loans, which, however, is intended to change the amendment of the People's Group. Our group does not agree with this, nor does it agree with the amendments on the so-called green mortgage, a refractory loan whose form of financing, which is currently in disuse, can cause problems of legal certainty in the financial market. In addition, we believe that this so-called green mortgage would require specific regulation of the environmental character of housing: it would be necessary to know what we are talking about when we refer to rehabilitation, environmental regeneration or energy efficiency in housing. Therefore, we understand that the subrogation, if any, should go in another law and not in this one. In short, we do not share those amendments that are now trying to detract from the agreements that have been reached, such as the one already mentioned, which wants to increase interest rates by cancellation or early depreciation. Nor are we going to support what is proposed in certain amendments which detract from the agreements reached with regard to insurance policies and those which seek to further extend the entry into force of this law: it is clear that the costs of delays are no longer manageable. However, we will support those amendments which are basically technical and which this group has also supported in the Senate. A separate mention deserves for us the amendment of taxes on heritage transmissions, which will count on our abstention, as our group usually does on tax matters, since Euskadi has its own regulations. It is a concerted tax of autonomous regulation, by virtue of the concert, and it is up to the deputies to make any decision about it. Although we are going to vote against some amendments from the Senate, we will vote in favour of the law, because we understand that stable and precise mortgage regulation will be achieved, which is essential, as the housing market generates very important impacts on the economy as a whole. The current parliamentary arithmetic has given us the opportunity to dialogue and reach agreements between different, achieving a more effective, efficient and balanced law for all operators in terms of rights, obligations and consequences, as I have already said. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parliamentary groups here for their contributions and insight into this work, as well as the Commission's lawyer for having made the task very easy for us. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u20	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Pause]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u21	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. The first thing I wanted to point out is that I do not know very well what we are doing here this morning, what we are discussing if, the other day, Mr Sánchez, at his first campaign rally since Moncloa, he said that thanks to this government the new Mortgage Law had been passed. Okay, well, then I don't know what we're arguing about here! But it is that Mr Sánchez has a hill or throws away by saying that thanks to this government the new Mortgage Law had been passed, when it was a project of the previous government, and that neither the previous government could take heart of this project, because it turns out that it is a transposition of a European directive. [[Applauds]] I think we should have a little more humility. Minister, I know you have it, but I would ask you to tell Mr. Sánchez that it is better to have humility and not to breastfeed things that do not correspond to him; that if it corresponds to the transfer of the mattress, but beyond that little more, the truth, We have already said in the various speeches that we have had in this plenary on the law that we are before a very important law, a fundamental law by all the people concerned, because of the importance for people of the signing of a mortgage, the significance of that operation, the bad practices that have taken place on the part of the banks and the abuses that had to be corrected and those that had to be stopped. We also said that the three objectives that citizens had when faced with the reform of this law, the introduction of amendments, were, firstly, to protect the consumer - as it could not otherwise be - from the abuses and bad practices of banking; secondly, to give legal certainty and certainty to all operators, so as not to have again scenarios in which there were thousands of judicial procedures that do not benefit anyone and that, in the end, the only thing they create is insecurity; and thirdly, the objective was the maintenance of the mortgage market; a mortgage market which, in general, had worked well, which in Spain was good, and which, therefore, we could not bear. But the amendments that come from the Senate, adopted mostly by the People's Party, are not in line with these objectives because they do not give more security, they do not give more certainty and, of course, they do not protect consumers anymore, but quite the contrary, and I will give some examples. The first, the evil so-called green mortgage, with that name so rumbling, so beautiful and so sellable now in election campaign, the only thing that we want to collate is the refractory credit. And you'll tell me, what is refractory credit? Well, what's the refractory credit? If we have had problems explaining to consumers what the ground clause is, how are we going to explain what the refractory credit is. If what we want is to avoid problems and there are no such trials and disputes that have arisen, I believe that what we cannot favour is that we have more problems. Therefore, we will not support the evil so-called green mortgage, which is a refractory credit. They modify the entry into force of the law, and increase it to three months, that in that we could agree more or less because I believe that we must give time to the legal operators, although in the presentation among all we reached the agreement of one month, and I do not understand very well why now we change if the PP was in agreement with one month. But then, it turns out that for the two most important articles of the law, the articles of material transparency, which are the essence of this law, the People's Party says they come into force when the government adopts a regulation; a government that in two weeks will take office, which we will see. I do not think this is about providing security or certainty, and I do not think it is reasonable to expect a hypothetical future government to adopt a regulation. All operators need to know what the exact date of entry into force of the article will be, unless what the People's Party wanted was for those articles to never come into force, which is what it seemed to want. The last essence of the People's Party - there are a few more but I will tell you the last - with its amendments in the Senate, is to make an amendment to its own electoral programme. In the face of their own announcements - that they make a drum and a platter - of a tax reduction, it turns out that on the first occasion they have since the announcement of the electoral call, on the first occasion they have to bring something to the BOE, that it is actually translated into facts, it turns out that they propose a tax increase. Yes, by cover, but they are proposing an increase in taxes because they eliminate the exemption from the tax of documented legal acts in the case of mortgage subrogations, so that all those who subdue in a mortgage would have to pay the tax of documented legal acts, when it is not paid right now. That is to say, the People's Party - as we are already used to - says one thing, they sell us that they are the adalids of the fall in taxes but, at the time of truth, - as Mr Rajoy did - makes the biggest rise in taxes in the history of democracy. [[Applauds]] So this is what you're doing, raising taxes on the first time you have to get to the BOE. In short, we will vote against almost all the amendments that come from the Senate because we believe that good work was done in the paper, that agreements and consensus were reached; all groups had to give in, as it cannot be otherwise when agreements are reached, and therefore it does not make much sense now to change that. As I said, we will vote in favour of the law because it gives more security and protection to consumers, which is ultimately the important thing. I want to end by thanking all the workers of the house and the lawyer for their work during the presentation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u22	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u23	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Commission's lawyer, who has been accompanying us in all the legislative work on this bill. First of all, I wanted to congratulate you. I believe that on a day like today, in good order, we must be able to congratulate the adversaries and, in that regard, I would like to congratulate Ana Patricia Botín, Francisco González, Mr Oliu and Mr Fainé, the untouchable, those who did not want to come to the Commission of Inquiry into the Causes of the Financial Crisis to tell us their good efforts. [[Applauds]] I would also like to congratulate BBVA, Santander, La Caixa and Banco de Sabadell. Congratulations, you have played the lottery again with a new legislative bailout against the interests of the working people of our country. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like to apologize to the people's movement as a whole, which defends human rights every day in the face of abuses by financial institutions and vulture funds. The Congress of Deputies and the Senate have not been able to live up to our people and their rights, have not been able to articulate a rule that protects the people of our country from the abuses of financial institutions, have not addressed the central issues that were discussed in the context of the crisis in our society: limitation of responsibility, that there is no one above the law. And that also affects the CEOs and the boards of directors of financial institutions, which have systematically violated the human rights of the most vulnerable population in our country. There is no law without democracy and there is no democracy without economic and social rights. We are voting against this law and the amendments that come from the Senate because, as he said, the reaction is insatiable at a time when the bubble returns, and I invite your gentlemen to walk through the streets of cities like Madrid or other major capitals and start seeing again how 100% mortgages are offered. The bubble is in motion, a bubble that walks on two legs: the bubble of the rent of the hand of the vulture funds and the bubble of the mortgages of the hand again of financial entities that are above the law, because there is no Legislative and because there are not institutions with the courage enough to sit their hand and tell them that they cannot do what they want with our people. [[Applauds]] I would also like to congratulate Mr De Guindos and Mrs Calviño because you have arrived in time, and that is that the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 26 March on early expiry will have many difficulties in protecting consumers and the people of our country thanks to this rule. I believe that financial institutions have much to thank, but I also say to them that the people of our country have nothing to thank, with a rule that barely meets by dragging the feet of some elements of the directive, but that certainly what is proposed is not to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We and we continue to think that we do not understand why we have to be the dumbest in Europe, why the people of our country cannot have the same protection as the people of Germany have against financial institutions, and why our people have to suffer the abuses of financial institutions much more than any other people in Europe. [[Applauds]] We don't understand. We believe that we are still in a very harsh situation for large sections of the population, that there is no social rescue, that people who have been condemned to exclusion are still excluded and from here we are looking elsewhere, that the measures taken against the more than 3 million empty houses that are speculated in the hands of vulture funds are to cover the doors and windows, and as they say, both those of mechanical orange and those of blue, the solution is that the vulnerable population end up in prison and bring us proposals for legislation saying that 200 000 people in vulnerable situations must be put in prison. We want to tell you that there is another way, which is to protect the vulnerable population, to take those homes, to put them in the hands of the population and to remove them from the vulture funds, which are making the narcopies to get the population out and to gentrify the center of the cities. [[Applauds]] I want to tell you that it is good enough to manage the country; I repeat, it is good enough to manage the country. The homeland is the working people; those who believe that Spain is a brand and sell public services and sell social to vulture funds are not patriots, are vendettas and are selling our country to pieces. [[Applauds]] And I also want to tell you that this is not over, that this has done nothing but start, and that sooner rather than later the financial institutions and the vulture funds will have to comply with the law and will have to respect the people of our country. We do not know how long it will take to achieve this, but we rely fundamentally on our people, and on their ability to change things. Finally I wanted to remember Pepi. Pepi faces tomorrow his seventh eviction, in this process of savage gentrification, of wild rent rises in the center of Madrid; the seventh eviction with a resolution of the United Nations Desc Committee, pardon, one no, two, and we want here at parliamentary headquarters to say that in this country article 96 of the Constitution is violated; the international treaties signed and ratified by our country are law, they are part of the domestic order, and the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary have an obligation to comply with it. And if the law is not being breached, and I want to make it clear here: illegal evictions continue to occur in this country and the human rights of the vulnerable population continue to be violated. [[Applauds]] While the Legislature only cares about the balance sheets of the financial institutions, here is a political force that will only worry about the interests of the working people, that they have no doubt, whoever falls. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. We have today the last debate of the mortgage credit law after the departure of Congress and the passage of the law by the Senate, and it is a law that will enter into force predictably with three years of delay, which had to be transposed in March 2016, and law by which the Kingdom of Spain has an open sanction procedure whereby every day more than 100,000 euros of fine are accumulated. But on the other hand it is one more of the fourteen directives pending transposition with which the present Government was found when it took possession. I would remind Mr Gómez that, while the law will be completed today, the current government has pushed it, and since June last year we in this House have done what we had to do to reach this term today. And it is that after ten years since the outbreak of the financial crisis numerous deficiencies in the mortgage system have been detected that should have been resolved previously, however many will today be curtailed by the adoption of this law. Our parliamentary group in the whole legislative process since June, as I said, has tried to maintain a constructive attitude in the process of the law on the basis of three premises: increasing consumer protection, improving transparency and ensuring and strengthening legal certainty on the part of the parties. We have done so by thinking of the more than five million people who currently have a mortgage in place, and of the thousands of people who sign a mortgage to access a fundamental right such as access to a home, as this is often the most important contract that will be signed by many families, many people during their lives, not because of the amount or duration, but because of the importance of a new life project. We have maintained this constructive attitude by thinking of the majority of the citizens of this country and not of any specific group. With this constructive attitude we have tried and managed to promote and encourage agreements during the presentation process to improve the initial text, both in Congress and last week in the Senate. Today we will vote here on 30 amendments, most of which are technical amendments, which have found broad consensus in the Senate. I would like to point out that we will vote in favour of the majority of them, particularly as I have said about the technical amendments, and that in the remaining amendments we will maintain, for consistency, the position we held in Congress there in December. We do not understand the change of opinion of the People's Party on several aspects that they intended to introduce in the Senate, there are others who did maintain the position they defended in Congress, but we understand that the green mortgage has nothing to do with what was proposed with the transposition of this directive. With regard to the entry into force, the spokesman for Citizens has already explained this, and I do not want to abound in it, but with regard to the tax on documented legal acts and the exemption for first mortgage we have already said in his day that we understand that now that financial institutions are paying it is not the time to detract important resources for the autonomous communities. Just as we do not share the increase in the depreciation commission in respect of fixed-rate credits that you are proposing, and which is expected to fall today. I believe that the text that we are voting objectively today, with the text in hand, substantially improves the situation of our country's consumers, because important terms such as material transparency really improve substantially. People who want and can sign a mortgage will be able to do so with much more guarantees than they had in the past, and above all legal certainty will be given to all signatories. The text that we will adopt today has little to do with what Mr De Guindos has brought to this House. And we have already said that in its day, although it is not the text that the Socialist Group would have drafted, it is a much better text than the one that entered this House, and objectively it is a text that improves the current situation. The whole issue of housing should not be addressed in the mortgage credit law, and we believe that much remains to be done to improve access to housing. That is why a few weeks ago we brought a royal housing decree to this House, which was rejected by the majority of parliamentary forces. As long as this legislature continues, the Government will work to facilitate a fundamental right, such as access to decent housing, and we know that in the coming weeks there may be some action in that direction. As I said earlier, it is a much better text than the People's Party brought to this House. From our point of view, aspects such as the reduction of interest on delays, the elimination of ground clauses, the reduction of early repayment fees or the expansion of unpaid contributions for the early maturity of contracts are positive and improve the situation of millions of mortgages. With regard to the first transitional provision, I would like to comment that an aspect was introduced unanimously in the Senate which gave the debtor the opportunity to choose the regime to be applied in situations of early maturity, which reinforces and gives more guarantees to the current mortgage lenders. In conclusion, my group believes that the work of these months has been positive, that the Government has been involved and that it has promoted the processing of this law, unlike the previous Government. The Socialist Group is moderately satisfied with the outcome of this law, although not all our expectations have been met, because here are the amendments we initially recorded. As I have already said, it is a text that objectively, article by article, improves the current situation of the millions of mortgages. That is why we will vote in favour of the technical amendments, and we will be against the other amendments. I also want to thank the work of the lawyer, Monica, who has helped us a lot in this respect, as in others, as well as the technical staff of the House and the tone maintained by all groups during the process of the law, because at times as the current one seems complicated to have a space of consensus and dialogue, which has been important to get to where we are. It has been more than six months of work and the result, although time will tell, is very positive from our point of view. Thank you very much and let us hope that the law passed today will substantially improve the lives of millions of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u26	Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u27	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Last Friday, in his first campaign rally since Moncloa, Mr. Sánchez pointed out a lot of so many, of merits that were not his. I'm not gonna make the list, because I only have seven minutes and he was 20 hanging medals. Obviously it doesn't give me time, but you all could hear it, and this law is one of them. The mortgage law, he said, but it is neither the mortgage law nor the work of his Government. In fact this law goes ahead despite this government because, who prepared the preliminary draft? Who collected information from civil society and consultative bodies to improve it? Who presented the bill in this House? The Government of Mariano Rajoy, the Government of the People's Party. In the presentation we have worked all the groups contributing, discussing, meeting with civil society - on several occasions with some collectives - with the aim of it coming forward, because it forms several important principles for the Spaniards, and then I will come back to them. All groups have made an important effort, including the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but everything that should have come from the Government was always slow; they changed their minds and have delayed so much the presentation that we have been short of arriving in time. We have tried to reconcile in this project the maintenance of a very important market for Spain, the mortgage market, and the needs and protection of the consumer. Why do we want to keep the mortgage market, gentlemen of União Podemos? For freedom; not for those spurious interests that you try to strain that we have. No, no, For the freedom of the Spaniards. Because we want you to be able to decide what you want to do with your home, something fundamental in anyone's personal life. We must support that they can rent, if they want, and we must support that they can buy a house, if they want, and that's what we do. With this law the Spaniards who want to buy a house - their home, their home - can do so, because the mortgage market can be maintained and in better conditions than before for them. Your proposals, Mr Mayoral, all they wanted, despite their sophistication, was to destroy this market and to soar the loans that the market would disappear, that no one would intend to grant mortgages and that nobody would help the Spaniards who wanted to buy a house. You said this in the explanatory statement of your amendment to the whole: access to housing ownership must be discouraged and other forms of access to housing solutions should be provided. Because you are not interested in freedom, you are only interested that the Spaniards need the State to have housing, to have a salary, to meet all their needs, and thus be able to direct and manipulate them. Nothing new, the failed communism of all life. But that is impossible, there is no country to endure this system, its system, because resources are limited. If we destroy markets, we destroy public revenues, and without income its system is unviable. Not even a country with such important natural resources as Venezuela with its oil has been able to do so. The most important effort of this law is directed to the transparency and protection of the mortgage consumer, first of all, as regards information at the pre-contractual stage, at the time of recruitment, as well as at the post-sales stage: information of entities, information of notaries, registration control and information of lenders throughout the life of the operation. Secondly, better financial conditions: ground clauses, delays, reimbursement fees, benchmarks and fixed rate. Thirdly, the control of lenders: rules of transparency and conduct, requirements of knowledge and competence, their legal regime and the sanctioning regime. Finally, the best analysis of the operations - something very important - is the obligation to assess the solvency of the potential borrower, which will have a very positive impact on the future of the mortgage operations, and also on the people to whom it protects by increasing their personal scope. In addition, a number of provisions regulating aspects not specifically provided for in European law are introduced throughout the article, or which go beyond its content and whose purpose is to reinforce certain aspects of the legal regime for mortgages and their contractual life, referring to certain situations which may arise in such long-term contracts and which must be taken into account, either by requiring greater guarantees, by strengthening existing ones, by establishing clear and simple regulation that avoids unnecessary interpretative doubts or by establishing mechanisms for the resolution of conflicts or situations that may vary the borrower's situation under the conditions it has contracted. The ultimate objective is to strengthen guarantees for borrowers in the procurement process, and ultimately to prevent the execution of such loans through the courts with the consequent loss of housing. The draft law regulating real estate credit contracts is a rule that transposes into our legal system the European directive on credit contracts concluded with consumers for residential real estate. The objective of the directive is to deepen the implementation of a single European market that is competitive, equitable and homogeneous. However, the People's Party Government decided to go further on some aspects of transparency and consumer protection, mainly for two reasons: because of the social relevance of housing - more than 80% of Spanish families have a property - and because of the implications of the most important contract that in most cases citizens sign throughout their life, which is the mortgage. On the amendments that come from the Senate, I hope you will appreciate their approval, especially the deadline for their entry into force, as several collectives have moved us for a month. If it is not approved, we may not have mortgages in Spain between the first and the fourth month, as the systems may not be ready. And as far as reimbursement commissions are concerned, I also hope that they will approve the Senate amendment, because if it is not possible that fixed-rate operations, which we so much want to support, may not be viable. I would like to say to Mr Gómez that all these amendments that come from the Senate are to give greater security and certainty; just as it has been difficult for him to understand the green mortgage, Mr Gómez, I do not think that the rest of the amendments have understood them either, especially the rise in taxes that has been invented in this intervention. Our parliamentary group and those who participated in the presentation, Carlos Floriano, Jordi Roca and myself, we are very proud of the work done, and I hope that all who participated in the elaboration of this law will also. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u28	Thank you very much. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise has asked for the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to take this opportunity to convey three key messages. Firstly, very sincere thanks and great appreciation for the work that has been done by the parliamentary groups. I believe that this serious work that has taken place in these eight months - and I have had the opportunity to participate and observe it - has enabled a broad consensus to be reached on a very important law, as has been pointed out this morning. It is very important from the point of view of the role that our economic system plays and very important for all citizens, so I also think it is very important to point this out on this occasion and to thank this work. Secondly, I would like to agree with the assessment made here today that the parliamentary procedure has made it possible to improve the draft before this House. It has been improved in many and various areas that have already been pointed out - I will not repeat it - but above all it has been improved because the protection of citizens has been strengthened with regard to the legislation that was in force so far, and that is very positive. We will do everything possible in the remaining legislature so that we can complete the transposition of the law, since a number of legal acts are still missing and we will try to do so before the end of the legislature. The third message is in line with what has been pointed out, and I think it is important in an area of as much friction and noise as the one around us to highlight this parliamentary work, the technical work that has been carried out, the work of politics with capitals of all of you, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, it must be emphasized, because that is what the citizens pay us for, because that is what the citizens of us expect, because it is a job that often goes unnoticed, and this morning we are having two occasions to celebrate that the dialogue, the negotiation and the agreement between the different political groups will make it possible to bring forward legislation that is important to the citizens. I do not think we should let go of any occasion to put it in value, and to hope that the media will also gather this good news that we have to celebrate together, and that I welcome, acknowledge and thank very sincerely. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u31	We now turn to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. Mr Agirretxea Urresti spoke at the position-setting session of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, because I believe that the most important thing on this subject has already been said at the time, when we are dealing with this law here in this House. I have to tell you a lot about the incorporations that have been made since the Senate, the importance and the need for them, which I believe are sending back certain issues that we have put forward here. I therefore say to you that we are going to vote against those amendments that have been tabled in the Senate, at least some of them, because we believe that they have nothing positive about this. Because, where do we come from? How did we get to this? In some ways, the Government, with its powers, had to turn to that involution that involved the Lomce, and above all the Royal Decree 14/2012, which, like in health on 16/2012, were both a disaster, both for education and for health; and that that saving goal that they had - we have often cited in this House, both in referring to a decree and to the other - did not comply with it, and generated organizational chaos, both in the world of health and in the world of education. When the new Government came in the first thing it wanted was to reverse this, and we said from the very first moment we were in agreement with the steps that were being taken through this law to reverse the issue that the royal decree had somehow destroyed. This royal decree had four key points: the possibility of educational administrations raising the maximum ratios of pupils per classroom to 20 per cent; the increase, on the educational side, of teaching staff teaching up to a minimum of 25 hours in children's education; the establishment of a time limit for the replacement of teachers by interim officials; and the empowerment of educationally competent administrations to establish the teaching part of the weekly teaching staff teaching. The measures that were then proposed to be able to channel this again, and above all - it was most important - to give autonomy again, both the centres and the autonomous communities, which are the competent ones, gave a kind of breath, both to the educational community and to the autonomous communities, as he quoted. When Mrs Moneo of the People's Party addressed this issue, she said that this was no revolution and we told her that it was not necessary to be, that all that had to be done was to return to her channel the water that was overflowing, and to put again a little bit of order in that chaos that had been generated. She spoke above all about the arbitrariness of the autonomous communities, but it is not arbitrariness, I repeat it, is called competition; we cannot confuse the competence of the autonomous communities with the arbitrariness that is understood from the People's Party, because that fear that the autonomous communities, based on their competences, make their educational system and generate the necessary mechanisms for the educational system to work in their community, apart from giving them great fear, I think it is a way of restricting the freedom that the communities have, and that is what they certainly do not like. The reason for this is precisely the amendments that have been tabled again in the Senate, which again insist with the same thing that they want to impose in some way from here what cannot be done. I conclude by saying that I hope that those amendments that the People's Party introduced in the Senate will not be approved, that they will not benefit anything that was intended by this law, and that this urgent rearrangement that has unfortunately remained in the way - this was a sort of attempt to cover the holes that were somehow the demeanors that Lomce produced - required a law that, in addition to covering the emergency holes, would re-line the whole issue. We stayed at the door and I think it was a pity, because you came to the Government for that purpose and we were left with nothing. At least this serves what was initially said to serve: the holes have already been covered, but the big hole is still in the air. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a draft is coming back from the Senate today with the amendments that we are going to support because, in fact, we already support them and in part they are ours, but I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate what I said when we defended this draft, which we did not like and do not like because it generates inequality and comparative grievances between the autonomous communities. Of the bad, the best, at least we have managed to put a fork of teaching hours and that is contemplated to the concerted that, after all, is education financed from public funds. This bill, in spite of everything, remains a wish and I cannot, as it has been all that has surrounded Sanchez in this legislature. Since they were going to talk about conditions for the performance of teaching and it was true that a normative framework had to be laid down to ensure the reversal of cuts, at least it could have been done well, that is, by eliminating the differences and comparative grievances between the autonomous communities, between teachers, between centres and between children. But no, because that would have meant defending equality and, of course, defending equality on the part of the PSOE would have been a very big risk because they could have pissed off their independence and nationalist partners. [[Applauds]] This is very good because in this legislature we have seen what the PSOE understands by education and what the PSOE understands by some other things he had told us. I'm going to do a review. In this legislature yesterday, the PSOE taught us what fake news is. A new fake is what Mrs Celaá gave in this House when she said that 0.2% of the books in this country have indoctrination and we do not know where she got the data. That's a fake new. We have also learned in this legislature what is educational equity, which is quite contrary to what the PSOE has defended. [[Applauds]] PSOE and educational equity is like an oximoron, it's like paid mortgage. Why? Because in the end what they have decided is that Spanish children do not deserve the same education in all territories. I am not Ivan Redondo nor do I intend to, but I will allow myself to give them a slogan so that they can use it in their election campaign when they talk about education: 'Tell me where you live and I will tell you the education you deserve'. [[Applauds]] But in this legislature we have learned a few more things. We have learned how useful education for postureum is. For example, today's law, which was in the end a reversal of cuts that was already more or less implemented: a bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. It's just that not only of hands, photos and flights can live a president, he has to use something else, and a rumbling title to sell something that was already half done and to try to monopolize an area to which he does not belong, which is the education, has come very well. In these months of camp in the Moncloa they have also taught us a lot about the president, and quiet that I am not going to talk about the mattress. We have been taught that when Pedro Sánchez spoke of the value of education, in fact what he was talking about was the economic value of education, because flying hours have given him the opportunity to realize the capacity and power that he has to sand the parents of the concertee to fill the public coffers and be able to present a budget. Therefore, when they talk about the value of education, they will be talking about the economic value of education. [[Applauds]] We have also learned in these chimeric months what the PSOE understood by consensus. The consensus for the PSOE is the consensus with those who think like them or with their independent partners. [[A Member: No, no]] Yeah, yeah. Another surprising information we have had was that when the PSOE got up from the table it was not for economic reasons, but for health reasons, because Mr Sánchez has shown that he has had an allergy to the work tables and an excessive desire for decrees. In fact, the proof is how they have processed this Celaá law that they have wanted to introduce and how they have not made any kind of negotiation with the collectives; ask them. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mrs. Celaá, you said that you presented your law out of respect to the people of the ministry who had worked on it. I think that respect would at least have been deserved by us and the 83 attendees who came to Congress and whose work has been left in a drawer. So I ask respect for everyone, and especially for those who came to explain their vision of education. He's also taught us something else about PSOE in these months and it's that when they talk about education they're actually talking about remembering. I was very worried and shocked to understand that the lords of sanchism have become cryogenic in the LOE and only come out of it when they have to make some assignment to independent partners or nationalist partners. [[Applauds]] So I think it's important that all of Spain knows this, that when they talk about education, they talk about the LOE, they talk about the past. Anyway, I'm going to end something good because there's always hope and I think this legislature has also served to show some things. It served to show that when we talked about education taking it seriously and believing it, it was true. And it was true when we were talking about educational equity not only because we did not get up from the pact, because we made proposals and because we were here, but now, when we came to govern, the first step we took was to put an educational reinforcement plan in Andalusia with 10 million euros that you could have used for Andalusian children to have a math and English reinforcement plan in the summer because it was true when we said so. [[Applauds]] So there's hope and there's time. I hope that the citizens have taken note of what this legislature has been like in terms of education, and I also hope that we will have the opportunity to demonstrate what we think about education in the Government. I'm telling you for real, not for me or for the sake of my party, but for the sake of the children in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u35	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u36	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. This bill has been widely demanded by the whole educational community and also involves the final burial of Decree 14/2012 adopted by the Government of the People's Party. That decree was the finding that cuts are part of the ideology of the People's Party, cutting rights and public services are part of the People's Party project. The cuts are ideology for the People's Party and also for Citizens. People's Party and Citizens not only go hand in hand with the ultra-right in the photo of Columbus Square, but also go hand in hand when cutting, attacking public school and continuing to privilege elite schools. [[The Lord]] But, Mrs Martín Llaguno, I am not surprised, either, with the envelopes in B of the People's Party or with the opaque societies of 2 million euros like those of Mrs Villacis, who will need the public school. The public school needs all the popular classes and the best proof of this is what you have done, Mrs Martín Llaguno, along with the ultra-right when you arrived at the Government of the Andalusian Junta. [[applause]] Do you know what the first measure of the trio in Columbus' photo was? To cut off a thousand opposition places which sought to improve the data of interinity in the Community of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] You, the People's Party and Citizens, are pursuing a precarious public school, without sufficient resources, with the worst working conditions in Europe, which is not inclusive and does not respond to the challenges of the 21st century. Instead, you are definitely betting on the elite schools and have continued to feed them through Rajoy's and Rivera's budgets. That's his model. Today, with this bill, we stopped the coup d'état of the cuts of the People's Party, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if we have succeeded, unfortunately, it was not thanks to your Government; you are often afraid of the push of the PP and of Citizens, also with regard to the defense of the public school. If today we lay this decree unworthy of the cuts it is thanks to the force of the change that broke out with the vocation and courage necessary to return to the citizenry everything that bipartisanism stole from it in the worst years of the crisis and, at the end of the legislature, that debt has not been paid by this Government. What has happened with this proposal is significant; first, people's hope. Also in education the motion of censure brought a breath of fresh air to the policy of corruption, cuts and intolerance against diversity; that fresh air was a new political majority in this Congress, but you have shown that that was not enough. What we need is a real blindfold in this Congress if we want to end the ties this Congress has with the privileged. Then, that hope was translated into the push of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos and En Marea. The Confederal Group has dragged the Government to break some of its own seams; a weak Government, because you decided so, and not brave because of your internal pressures and the external pressures of the photo of Columbus, who did not want to go further, which was what was at the moment, also in the field of educational policies. [[Applauds]] Today we know what all of Spain knows, that the Socialist Party is a party with ties, that it does not dare or dare to cross the limits that the demands of ordinary people demand that we pass, neither in education, because placing ourselves in the European educational framework in secularism, in inclusive school and in the bid for an equal public network is not on the agenda of the Socialist Group; we do not know whether because of convictions or fears of Spain kidnapped by Vox, and that is what worries us. There's disappointment, gentlemen of the government. In the educational sphere, the Lomce coups and the cuts of the People's Party are limited to standing in the LOE of 2006, when we had a historic opportunity and parliamentary majorities that allowed us to move much further, to respond to the challenges of 21st century Spain and to shield our educational communities, such as Catalan, from the attacks on the photo of the Trio de Colón. Yesterday, Mr Rivera told us that if he was president - I understand that he will want to do the same if he becomes vice president of the Sánchez government - he will breach the Constitution and charge himself with the language model of public schools in Catalonia. We will not allow it because the linguistic model that exists in Catalonia is the constitutional model decided by the Parliament of Catalonia and also decided by this Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Rivera, more respect for the democracy that we have acquired among all of us. It's over, President. This law is also a metaphor of the Sánchez Government. They did not want to take advantage of the new majority of Congress that emerged from the motion of censure to move Spain forward. You came to the government after the sentence that confirmed the corruption of the governments of the People's Party because they were the least bad bipartisanism, because those who represented the majority, the guarantee of change in this country with more than 5 million votes, we remained only 400 000 of being the force that led the progressive bloc. But you have reaffirmed the idea that we have always had: this goes from the popular bloc to the elite bloc. [[Applauds]] I sincerely believe that many of you, because we have spoken, would like to be with us, but your ties with those above do not allow it. That is why I know that the future is from Spain free of ties with the powerful, who do not owe it any favor, and from Spain brave, who does not fear to make policies for the common good because you cannot afford to take your children to elitist schools, and that courageous Spain, that committed Spain, that fraternal Spain is the Spain that is going to win on 28 April. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. For the Socialist Group, Mr Díez Trillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have had two sessions at which we have had a profound - and I would say profuse - debate on education and even very heated, as we have seen this morning. It is certainly appropriate for the country to discuss education, but it is appropriate to do so with data, figures, intelligence, as my colleague Torres Mora said this morning. He wrote my countryman Juan Ramón Jiménez that of: 'Intelligence, give me the exact name of things!'. I would also say the data and figures, and the first figure I would like to devote to Mrs Martín. When a government makes decisions - especially if it is the first - it is portraying itself. You have already broken an agreement in Andalusia to provide public education with 4,500 places. They've broken it and they're already going for 3700 and going down. That is the reality of Citizens when they have just begun to rule. [[Applauds]] Beyond the joke and the jokes, it is also appropriate for this debate of education to be serious, depth and rigour. A little more than two years ago I had the opportunity, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to debate the decree to stop the revalidation. It was a gesture from the previous Government that I greeted as a claudication, as a sort of armistice in the face of what had been a very harsh battle on the right, in which you are now also incorporated, in the face of everything, and I say well, the whole educational community. It seemed at that time that the People's Party was falling off the horse - it is true that it has just mounted, together with Vox and Citizens, the ultra-right group, and there you are - at that time there was a will of agreement, of pact - and I am still serious - by the way, proposed on 12 September by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and shortly afterwards also with a bill to paralyse the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce. This is the party, dear friend Mena - I tell you with all affection - not of the two Spains, but of one Spain, the party that overcome the conflict of the two Spains; terrible conflict that now rescues the right and that, of course, I am going to abstain from feeding. There is only one Spain that is consecrated precisely with the great desire of those illustrated in 1978 of the last century, thanks to the Constitution. That is the aspiration of the liberals, the socialists and also the communists. That is why I think it is right at the moment to remember that the Socialist Party is proposing an agreement to repeal and paralyse the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce; pact, by the way - and I remember Mrs Moneo's intervention, which she always does with respect, seriousness and sobriety, even - which I remember - to which you were also a party, Mrs Martín - that the red lines were always put by the People's Party. The People's Party did not accept that we could reach 5% of the gross domestic product. [[Rumors]] No, Mrs. Martin. And I tell you one thing, the law that the Minister presented before yesterday contemplates 5% of gross domestic product precisely as a soil to provide and finance education properly. Those are facts. Mr Mena will say - he has pointed out - that, certainly, in eight months it is difficult to do much more. We are talking about dozens of decrees, laws that have improved the lives of the citizens of this country. We are also talking about a certain educational proposal that lines the future in the right way, as we checked the other day. I want to go on with the data and the figures. The People's Party set up an ambush that has led to two more courses in Lomce. That's the reality. The ambush, under the guise of the pact for education, was to continue to implement the Lomce. I am deeply sorry - Mr Olòriz is not here, whom I like to listen to and discuss with him - that we have paralysed budgets and, therefore, a government that would have carried out a law, as was also shown the other day. In this respect, it seems to me that the Socialist Party not only has its political and educational duties well done, but also has its credibility in the field of education. The citizens' educational political project refers us to a pre-constitutional sphere. You want to refocus education. You, in the same initiative that you want to support today, intend to do something that has happened a long time ago, a Spain in black and white, a Spain that does not exist, as the two Spains do not exist. There's only one Spain. [[Applauds]] In that sense - and I am talking about the decree; I do not want to escape the issue that brings us here today, which is also important - the decree was a sort of advance in that confrontation with the educational community to cut rights acquired by teachers, a fundamental part of education, and, moreover, it did a tremendous damage, which we are still paying: the increase in ratios; the increase in the period of substitutions, of teaching hours; the freezing of wages. Impairment, in short, of the quality of the faculty, interinity, precariousness. We want to recover some of those rights with this decree, of course by not accepting the amendments, because, as I have told you, we need to talk about figures. Yesterday the minister gave some figures - and this is the saddest thing for Spain, for the only constitutional Spain, which is that of everyone, that of all the peoples of Spain, by the way - which I want to remember as regards the levels of graduation, for example, or early school leaving; how it has been found that with Lomce we were going to much worse. Therefore, no effect. I regret, as a Spanishman on foot, that we have to be on the lookout for, precisely, a crisis of the greatest talent, the greatest capacity to change, to transform a country, the greatest investment in wealth - it is said that a euro invested in education is multiplied by five. I'd say for a lot more. We've lost seven precious years to this country. Why? For an ideological project, Mrs Martín, purely ideological. You want to segregate, you want to create two Spains, that of the rich and that of the poor. Look at you, no; there is only one Spain, which we share among all. I do not want to escape, today, precisely what Don Antonio Machado, author of the book Juan de Mairena, said, which is still completely current, because, as he also said, 'today is still'. [[shows a book]] He said in that book that 'between doing things right and doing them wrong is not doing them, as an average, not exempt from virtue.' This is what you should have done and not just done a huge damage to education in our country. There is not Mr. Olòriz, to whom I wanted to have said today from the rostrum that also of Machado: 'Your truth? No, the truth; and come with me to seek it.' I think that is the fundamental task. I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the importance of truth, of data, of figures. Let's handle that truth. I know there is some electoral warming right now, but respect for this House demands the truth, the data and the figures, and the truth is that we have lost with this law of yours and with your previous decree seven precious years for future generations. But don't worry, with the law introduced by the minister we are willing to recover that lost time. I have very little time left, but I don't think the president interrupts Machado. Since eighty years have passed since his death in Colliure, I want to dedicate a first stanza of a poem that you know to the party to which I have the honour of belonging, a centenary party...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u39	You have to conclude, Mr. Trillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u40	'To the old elm cleft by lightning...' he then says: '...with the rains of April and the sun of May some green leaves have come out'. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all every success with the April rains and the May sun of the election campaigns. This centenary party faces them with the vigor of the green leaves and the rebirth that the elms mean. So, comrades, if I may, we will again rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Trillo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. Today we are discussing the amendment to the draft law on improving the working conditions of teachers, a more extensive title than its content and, above all, a total lack of ambition. This project, which aims to abolish three measures of the Royal Decree-Law 14/2012, of urgent measures of rationalization of public expenditure, and which related to the teaching burden of teachers, the ratio and the replacement of teachers of lower education, demonstrates the little effort that the Government of the Socialist Party has made for education in these months that it has been in the exercise. It is a draft of three articles where we are announced the end of the cut-off measures forgetting that it was the previous government itself, that of the People's Party, which has already begun its reversal. By the way, seven years ago, when, once again, the People's Party government had to bring this country out of economic ruin, as it has done so many times, since the Socialist Party, the only thing it does is spend and leave us in that deep ruin. This proposal is also used to make one more free concession by making the Government leave its powers, transferring a national responsibility to the arbitration of the Autonomous Communities. And all this too, ladies and gentlemen, without listening to the State School Council and the majority opinion of the educational community. That is why we say that this law shows the socialist government's lack of ambition and, above all, the lack of rigour in fulfilling its commitment and the educational need of the Spaniards. Because, look, it is you, the socialist government, who have two political agendas: an agenda for the opposition and an agenda for the government. In the opposition their agenda was 5% of the gross domestic product for education, and the government's agenda is that instead of 25 billion, they remain at 150. They announce an increase in scholarships knowing that the budget was not going to prosper; they promise a plan against dropping out of school that was never again known, and they present an education law that they know cannot be dealt with. Therefore, a very different agenda for the opposition and another very different agenda for the Government; a Government that we understand cannot give up its powers by leaving teaching hours to the discretion of the autonomous communities. Of course, we understand that we need to be more sensitive, as the State School Council recommended that the improvements envisaged also benefit all teachers in the concerted centres, which you have overlooked. And it is that the said council, last October 2nd, in its opinion 18/2018, recommends a homogenization throughout Spain of the teaching part of the working hours of teachers in order to avoid inequalities between teachers and to establish a maximum of twenty-three hours of teaching for teachers in children and in primary school, and eighteen for secondary school, recommendations that, in the eyes of you, you have not followed and that are also a demand of the unions. That is why, after that long, suggestive title, in the end - we said - a norm is hidden without any kind of ambition. Moreover, you refer to the application of the LOE in relation to the pupil/student ratio but hide that this reference, before and after the Lomce, already allowed a 10% increase in the number of pupils, as referred to in Article 87 of the LOE itself. It should also be said that the increase in the ratio is conditional on the replacement rate of the faculty. When you left the government in 2011 that replacement rate was 35%, while in 2016, 2017 and 2018, with us in the government, it was already 100%. It has therefore allowed not only to revert to the terms set out in the basic legislation but to be below what is laid down in the law itself, especially with regard to public education. Of course, the examples are clear and rigour was called for here. Indeed, today we know that the ratio can be 25 pupils in primary school and 30 in secondary school. The reality today of our educational institutions is that in primary the ratio is 21.9 and in secondary 25.4. Our ratios are not only below what is laid down in the basic regulation itself but are in the OECD average. Therefore, that speech that we are hearing from the destruction of public education, from overcrowded classrooms, etc., simply does not conform to the truth, when it gets black on white, we find that it is not real. That is why we said that this project does not contribute to the conditions for improving the quality of our education system. These are not the challenges we have to face, nor are they the challenges that Spanish society is demanding. [[The lady]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the education system is no worse than in 2011, it is much better; it is more important for teachers to thank them that our country has an early drop-out rate of 18.2% - that is official data -, of course it is much closer today to that 15% that the European Union marks for us by 2020 than when you left the government, which was at 28%. That's the pure and hard data, whether they like it or not. At least the inheritance that you have received is much better than that which we find ourselves and not only in relation to early educational abandonment but also with regard to the teaching staff. But what we cannot overlook is the fact that you, by your standard, de facto break the national bodies of the faculty, yield your competences to the arbitrariness of what the communities decide, design a faculty with different rights and obligations, and take a step further towards a definitive break in the Spanish educational system. The equal rights, duties and opportunities of teachers must be present in how many decisions the Government takes, and that is unnegotiable for us. The professorship, ladies and gentlemen, required something more and asked for something more from this project; it required a commitment determined by the design of the professional career, by a change in the access system, by an impulse to the professional and economic recognition of teachers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, two final considerations. There's been talk of Machado. I am not a specialist in Spanish literature of the Golden Century, but in my time we knew something about Fray Luis de León and San Juan de la Cruz. We are not going to ask the president to read the Spiritual Song or the Ascent to Mount Carmel - enough has to change the mattress of the Moncloa - but at least someone cares to review the texts. In this way, they would have told him that the famous phrase 'We said yesterday' was pronounced by Fray Luis de León when he resumed his classes in Salamanca after remaining in prison for five years in Valladolid. And even, since Machado is spoken of, someone might remind him that Machado was born in Seville and not in Soria. Those of us who are dedicated to teaching know that the Logse has caused great gaps in the knowledge of the student, but if it is to the point of confusing such important characters, the truth is that it leaves us very concerned. For this reason, we can best find why you have changed equal opportunities for equal results. One final recommendation, and that concludes. I am referring, Madam Minister, to special education centres. I ask you to approach them without any prejudice, to know them, to check the resources at your disposal, the great preparation and vocation of your professionals and the level of satisfaction of your parents. Abandon those prejudices, acknowledge your error and bet on them. Thank you very much. [[Ms Celaá Diéguez, Minister for Education and Vocational Training, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u44	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the debate. With the approval of this law much more is done than a reversal of the cuts that occurred in 2012 with the Royal Decree 14/2012. With the adoption of this law, which I hope can be carried out this afternoon, a debt is paid to the teacher and to the families. A teacher who, thanks to his professionalism, thanks to his dedication, has been able, even though his working conditions have been greatly damaged, to devote himself entirely to the improvement of school and education. And families who have had to endure overnight increases in ratios of up to 20% in their children's classrooms and a wait of up to ten days for a teacher, a teacher, a professional to be replaced. It is fair to reverse these cuts because these cuts result in the improvement of Spanish education and thus in the improvement of Spanish society. The teacher saw an increase in his hours of direct teaching, but the outstanding issue in Spanish education, a cultural issue that we need to improve, is that the teacher devotes himself more to observation, more to collaborative work with the rest of the list of teachers for the individualized care of the student. That is to say, among the measures recommended by this bill, a decrease in direct teaching will obviously lead to an improvement in education because the teacher's working hours are still present; and, of course, it means an improvement in the arrival of those who are to be replaced. This bill is therefore a substantive improvement for Spanish education. I take this opportunity to thank the groups for their work, of course the parliamentary group that supports the Government and all the groups in the House, who have worked carefully on an issue as important as the reversal of the cuts of 14/2012. And in particular, I would like to thank the professionals, teachers and teachers of the Spanish educational system for their dedication and merit because they have been able to endure during the crisis very harsh working conditions and, however, to make their work continue to have a high quality for the students, the true objective of the system, and for the Spanish families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u46	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments adopted by the Senate, in this case the proposal for a law to improve the orphan status of the children of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women. Mr Aguirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u47	I'll do it from the seat because I'll try to be brief, Madam President. We come from the Senate in particular four amendments amending a proposal for a law that has already been considered in the presentation made by this House in order to improve the orphan status of the children of victims of gender-based violence. Of these four amendments, the first two are technical improvements and are perfectly acceptable. The third is a novel reference, and I am right to see it too, by which the passive class regime is included within the beneficiaries of this system of improving the orphanhood of children who are victims of gender-based violence. And yet there is a fourth in respect of which, with all due respect, they will allow me to state that we are going to disagree and that we are going to request, under Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, a separate vote. This, simply and curiously, amends an additional fifth provision of the Criminal Prosecution Act, introduced in turn by Law 16/2015 in a novel way also, which provided for the obligation of the judicial secretaries then and now lawyers of the Administration of Justice to report criminal events related to gender-based violence to different entities. These entities to be addressed were, at the time, the INSS, the ISM, the Social Institute of the Navy, and the Passive Classes Personnel Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, among others. Well, this fourth amendment eliminates the reference to the INSS and the ISM, which in principle seems illogical to us and seems to us to be contradictory in addition to the object of the improvement envisaged in this legislative paper and we therefore believe that it is a mistake, we do not understand it, unless the representative of the People's Party, who introduced these amendments in the Senate, explains it to us. I repeat that we believe that this is a clear and manifest error. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are simply saying that we are going to support the first three amendments and that we are going to call for a separate vote on the fourth. We do this because we sincerely understand that it is a technical mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u48	Thank you very much. As you have seen, the intervener had not been the one who had been communicated, but it was Mr Barandiaran Benito. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last February 19th in an act-homenage to Soledad Cazorla the truth is that we were put to the point of all those who were there when we heard David tell of the calvary that had passed to adopt his niece, who had witnessed how his father murdered his mother with a shot in the temple when he was only three years old. David told us everything that had happened and asked us one thing from the Members, the Members and the Chambers: Please put things a little easier. I remember it as if it were today and we've ever commented on it. David, we have tried with all our strength and the law that comes now with the amendments that are being tabled has managed to incorporate child children who are victims of gender-based violence as orphans. The truth is that it is well-born to be grateful and I have to say that it was the Soledad Cazorla Foundation who first addressed this issue and that it was Soledad Cazorla the first female prosecutor in the room against violence against women who put this issue on the table. It's a tough topic. Orphan children who are victims of gender-based violence in addition to losing their mother, murdered by their father, lose their father because he ends up in prison and the truth is that it is often the family members who have to take care of these minors - up to three minors have told us on some occasion - without any help. This year there are already thirty-nine minors who have lost their mother due to gender violence and the truth is that the economic impact of the measure we are going to adopt is very small compared to the benefit that is achieved. There have been very significant changes, some have been mentioned, and we are going to support them, but I would like to mention an issue that we have not achieved. I do not know whether it is because we have not been well understood in the Senate or because I believe that in the end both the PP and the PSOE have given them a bit of laziness to modify part of the labour legislation, but I think we will try again because it is very important. When a boy's father or a girl kills his mother, the truth is that he enters into a calvary with the killer's family that often has many difficulties in recognizing the harsh reality of what has happened. We have cases, and this has been told, of children who have to continue to go to meeting points with grandparents, the parents of the killer who is in prison. The fact is that these circumstances make the family members have to carry out an adoption, dear because they are children they love, but imposed, imposed by the special circumstances that suppose the family of the murderers have to assume reality. Adoption is also done for another reason, for the stigmatization of these minors. These children end up not only being the children of the murdered women, but also the children of the murderers, if they are not adopted. That is why we ask that, regardless of whether these children are adopted, they be allowed to maintain these orphan pensions, because this adoption is necessary. We have not achieved this on this occasion; we have achieved half of what we wanted. We are satisfied, but the commitment of Citizens is firm, it is firm with David and it is firm with all those families that I know that today they are with crossed fingers, supernervous, because they have been very distressed to see whether or not the approval of this decree entered. We have achieved half and in the next parliamentary term, regardless of the government, we will continue to work on this. We will try to explain this amendment well again and get it, because it is necessary for families and children. [[Applauds]] Today's a good day. Thanks to you, to the families you have fought for, because the merit is yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u50	Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be able to take part in one of the last debates in this Parliament on a subject like this, because it is no coincidence that it is a subject with a clear gender perspective or that it is not specifically a subject of sexist violence. I do not want to fail to say that we could have had many more debates like this. Because of the extensions to the deadline of amendments requested by the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Group and because of the hasty elections of the Socialist Party there are many laws that will remain with us. Many of these laws are those of my parliamentary group - there are others - but I want to mention some that seem relevant to me and in which it seems to me a pity that we have not been able to pass them: there is the LGTBI law, the trans law, the law against sexual violence, the law on permits, the law on precariousness, the pension laws, a lot of laws that talk about the rights that citizens were asking us to guarantee in this House, and above all it is a shame because I think we had consensus to move them forward. It is also true that, on these consensus and discussions we have had on gender, there have been two fundamental axes and that the law we are discussing today serves me perfectly to exemplify them. Firstly - and on this we have discussed a lot the Members of the Committee on Equality in papers and in the Committee on Follow-up to the State Pact - we have talked about who these rights were for and, secondly, we have talked about what kinds of rights we gave these people. With regard to this proposal for a law, which will improve the orphan's pensions for the daughters and children of victims of gender-based violence, there are two issues that we have raised with our amendments, which we believe are fundamental and for which it is a shame that we have not reached an agreement. The first of these is who these rights are for. We have said it many times - I myself have said it many times in this rostrum - that there are many more victims of sexist violence who are outside the scope of the couple and, unfortunately, while the ladies and gentlemen who are in this Chamber have had this legislature to reach agreement, there have been women killed, not by their ex-partners or their partners, who have left orphans, and these children this law will not guarantee them any kind of pension. It is a mistake that we have not been able to abide by what the international bodies, the Council of Europe and the Cedaw told us. In this sense, we have failed as Congress of Deputies. The second, as far as what kind of rights are concerned, we do not share the focus of the rest of the groups. It may seem so, but we don't share it. We don't think we have to give alms, we don't think about giving pensions that are welfareist. We believe that when there is a macho murder in this country, what there is is a failure of the state. There is a failure of this House, which has not put forward all the necessary measures to prevent this murder. In terms of human rights, to resolve that a posteriori is to make reparation policies for the damage. Pensions that depend on what the mother received or the work situation that the mother had when she was murdered are not a policy of reparation, it is a welfare policy. What is the fault of the orphans of this country - and I say it with all the solemnity and delicacy with which we have to talk about this issue - for their mother to be a civil servant, unemployed or out of a supermarket cashier? [[Applauds]] If there is an orphan, the State has to repair the damage that has been committed against or against him. Ladies and gentlemen, something very important is about what kind of rights: the amounts. This is not a commitment of my parliamentary group, but says Cedaw and Amnesty International. In Spain, there are quite important comparative aggravations in relation to reparation for the damage, for example, if we compare victims of macho violence with victims of terrorism. My group, since we did not want them to be contributory pensions or depend on the working life of the mother, drafted an amendment calling for the amounts to be fixed. In addition, we proposed that it be a worthy amount. Sometimes I think that many of the decisions taken in this House are taken by people who still owe accounts to those who have never had to live with 600 euros a month. When you live on 600 euros a month, you know perfectly well when you come to this Congress to do politics, which are not enough either to pay rent or to pay receipts or, of course, to repair the damage that your mother was killed. [[Applauds]] What happens when we say these things to the Socialist Party, even though we seem to agree? It happens that the Socialist Party does not dare to propose them. We continue to be - we have shown in this legislature - the guarantee of change. We continue to be the guarantee that the Socialist Party dares to make real socialist policies. It's a shame, because they alone, like a little boy when he's doing homework and his mother turns her head, do the homework wrong. We will therefore have to continue to do this task. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share a reflection. The debate that we have had with our ideological differences - ideological differences that must be shown naturally, because this is to do politics and has no problem doing politics; it is not the same as doing politics of - has been possible to express it thanks to the state pact. I believe that the state pact is probably the greatest political achievement of this legislature, if not of the last years of Spanish politics. Moreover, it has been possible because many women in this House and also some men have agreed not only on certain concrete measures against gender-based violence, but we have agreed on a pact against machismo. It's a pact for feminism. It's a pact to make a vaccine against what we've seen in Columbus. On this I would like to say a few questions before the end. I think we cannot allow the feminist vaccine that we have put on the state pact to cease to have effect in the next parliamentary term. Here, in front of that Spain of the unity that was seen in Columbus, was drawing another Spain that is Spain of the state pact, that speaks of another series of issues and that represents many more people. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u53	It is not a small homeland that we want when we talk about Spain, it is a much larger homeland where many more things fit. For starters, you talk about freedom, but what a freedom that was represented in the Senate yesterday when it fell to an institutional statement that spoke of LGBTI rights! [[Applauds]] Freedom is to be able to say clearly in this rostrum that you love someone of your own sex without any problem. I hope this feminist vaccine doesn't end for the next legislature. I hope it will not end, because we want to have a Spain that can represent not only 15M Spain, not only Spain on 8 March, not only feminist Spain, but also brave Spain that is able to arrive at the end of the month and that, despite what has happened with the policies of the People's Party and the disgovernment that we have often done in this House, is able to reach agreements from our ideological positions, as was done in the state pact, to make politics and improve people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the women who signed this state pact with us in the paper to convince the people of their parties not to surrender themselves to the ultra-right macho and elitist with whom the photo was taken in Columbus. [[Applauds]] There is still hope, but for that you have to step back. I would ask you, please, to continue to think about this state pact in the next elections and especially in the next parliamentary term. Every time they sign something, as they did in Andalusia with a party that wants to repeal the Law on Macho Violence, the Law on Equality, the LGTBI Law and, ultimately, they want people who have different sexual orientation not even to be part of the rest of the country with the same citizenship, it's terrible, don't listen to this, get out of there. They have agreed with us an agreement that does represent this country, so please make the effort and do everything possible to ensure that there is still feminism in Spain, that is, there is still equality and freedom and, above all, we live without fear. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u54	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are going to support the implementation of a new benefit within the social security system. We are faced with the example of a law that gives meaning to parliamentary work and gives meaning to politics, but it seems that something must be corrected in the Rules of Procedure of the House in order to prevent a rule on which there is also parliamentary unanimity from taking two years to process. Up to eleven enlargements suffered from this law in its handling, which has led to the inability to implement the items that the 2018 budgets had planned to meet this benefit. The Socialists, as authors of the initiative, want to thank all the groups in the House for having reached this consensus throughout the process and in the result that we are going to see in the vote today. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislative proposal that we will vote on today was formulated prior to the agreements of the Pact against Violence and that the Socialist Parliamentary Group incorporated it as one of the measures of that agreement because we Socialists want a commitment of unity in this pact that is unquestionable in the fight against criminal violence. Since the year 2014 when Congresswoman Elena Valenciano tried to put her government at the head of a social, political and institutional pact against this barbarity, we have not given up on the attempt. Pedro Sánchez, as secretary general of the Socialist Party, persevered and presented a battery of urgent measures in August 2015, and now, as president of the Government of Spain and with the push of the vice-presidency of the Government and the Ministry of Equality, it is not limited to an absolute revulsion of the macho violence, it goes beyond; it drives with the speed and urgency that every day we demand the Government from this rostrum to comply with the agreements of the Covenant against Violence. Turning to the proposal for a law, I wanted to thank the first one for the constructive tone during the discussions of the paper, where each group with its amendments and a good negotiating spirit - I have to say - has collaborated with technical improvements. The incorporation of the amendment of Podemos so that the benefit protects the orphanhood for any kind of violence against women is logically made in coherence with the agreements reached after the initial processing of this norm. However, this inclusion and recognition was improved in a paper to make it consistent by requiring that it be found in circumstances comparable to an absolute orphanhood, because, for example, a minor whose mother has been the victim of a sexual assault resulting in death maintains the family bond and guardianship with his other parent, is not in circumstances comparable to an absolute orphanhood. One of the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party has also facilitated the retroactive nature of the negotiations in question, an aspect which the Socialist Group has, of course, always had on its horizon. The Member of Parliament, Rocío de Frutos, has already pointed out how the configuration of orphan's pensions so far required requirements that were not aware of an essential aspect, such as the fact that on too many occasions women who are victims of gender-based violence are not incorporated into the labour market, which means that their children are deprived of a decent pension. This circumstance is very important to describe because the fact that they are removed from the labour market most of the time is a consequence of the strategies of control and breakdown of social ties imposed on them by the violent, or also of the assumption of a vertical family model that distances them from autonomy and economic independence and that has consequences that also suffer their children. The new benefit is designed to set an increase from 70 % to 118%, depending on the circumstances - we currently have it at 55% - of the regulatory base, which is finally going to guarantee a vital benefit with a decent amount. I would like to take advantage of my last speech in this legislature to thank the other rapporteur of this law, Mrs Rocío de Frutos, to whom I would like to express my respect for her professionalism, my gratitude for her work in the paper and my affection for her constant demonstration of companionship. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Prosecutor Soledad Cazorla Prieto focused on minors because she first knew the intolerable situations of institutional abandonment that these children have been suffering. She would be proud today - I am absolutely sure - to see that this House responds to this problem that she has so many times denounced and that we also do so unanimously. I will end with a reflection and appeal to the Members who will continue and also to those who will come in the next parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the pact against violence must not leave this House, whatever happens in the next elections. It would be a quasi criminal fear to break the consensus reached and leave the victims in the open, exposed to the lynchings of macho radicalism and of all those who seek to criminalize not only the women victims, but also, and above all, the institutional structure that gives them support. The new legislature cannot be articulated by trading rights with those who think that feminism and those who advocate radical equality between men and women are a threat to society. It is from these discourses that they are enemies of democracy and women's freedom from which criminal machism is fostered. We have forged a great consensus on a fundamental issue such as the fight against macho violence. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of a phrase by the philosopher Amelia Valcarcel, who says that sexism kills, impoverishes and stuns. Therefore, I would like to ask you in my last speech that no one should have the temptation in the next parliamentary term to ally themselves with this criminal machismo. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u55	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cotelo Balmaseda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. I was going down the stairs and I thought I was surprised, but I really am not. Some colleagues who have preceded me see that they are happy, that they are satisfied, and even some are delighted with the result of this presentation. We, the People's Party, what you want me to say, are not satisfied, we are moderately satisfied. I recognize that I, and I believe that also the comrades who have helped me side by side in this presentation - and I take advantage to recognize their work to Lola Alba and José María Barrios -, far from feeling satisfied, we are powerless, frustrated and even sometimes angry with ourselves. You and your parties are content with little and, in particular, the Socialist Party and its partners have shown how little they really care about the orphans of the victims and are shielded from the State Pact against Gender Violence; a pact which, however, the Socialist Party's lords, since they arrived in the Government, have forgotten; a pact that is in no hurry to comply with or to comply with all those measures that they demanded of the People's Party Government. Now you, since you came to the government eight months ago, it turns out that no Council of Ministers has adopted any measure, repeatedly failing to comply with the state pact; a pact that had a budget that we had left for you in 2018. You didn't want to go any further. You and your partners have been hiding in the Pact against Gender Violence to make first and second orphans, because now they only touched the orphans of gender violence. You have forgotten the final object of this bill, which is to benefit all orphans, not just those you have made privileged. They have wanted to forget the rest of the orphans, who have equal misfortune and right to have the children of victims of gender-based violence. Or don't the orphan of a victim of domestic violence and an reckless murder in which a father in a traffic accident kills a mother have the same right? It's clear not to you. Nor did they make clear that right of orphans when the victims of gender-based violence were also officials, civilians or military, which was what Mr Barandiaran referred to. It has had to be an amendment by the People's Party that has succeeded in correcting this discrimination that would be committed if the consolidated text of the passive classes were not changed. You treated orphans unequally and unjustly, depending on whether your mother, who died as a victim of gender-based violence, was affiliated with one regime or another. As I told you at the beginning, the People's Party is not happy or completely satisfied yet. We know that more could have been done for all orphans, because for the People's Party all minors must be protected. The amendments proposed by the People's Party would have succeeded, including, as we asked, the orphans of domestic violence and the rest of the orphans. We did not propose to exclude them, we asked them to include, add and protect all orphans in a single administrative procedure, to extend the solution to all. That is, once we created the non-contributory legal figure for those cases in which the mother had not contributed enough, we included all orphans, orphans of gender-based violence, but also the rest of the orphans. As I was telling them, they had enough misfortune to make second-rate victims, but for the PSOE and its partners it was not playing now. In this regard, we have succeeded - also with an amendment by the People's Party - in setting a three-month deadline for the Government to properly study other cases of absolute orphanhood, setting the same financial amount as the rest of the cases, which has become the second additional provision. But by precipitating the legislature by calling elections and paralysing everything, the differentiation they were looking for was also precipitated: orphans of the first and orphans of the second. Now, yes, what you have achieved. As for the retroactivity of this benefit, also raised by my group in another amendment, we refer to previous situations, provided that the circumstances are given both at the time of death and at the time of applying for the benefit. This amendment gives greater legal certainty and clarifies the situation for orphans in the transitional period of law enforcement. More than 260 orphans will be granted this aid of more than EUR 600. I remind you that if it had been for you, Socialist Party gentlemen, and your partners, it would not have been for you either. Today we are taking one more step in improving the rights of the most vulnerable victims of gender-based violence, those who need it most, children; as I said, one more step. From the People's Party we can say with pride, with great pride, that we have always been at the side of the victims, and to the hemeroteca I refer and send them so that some do not want to rewrite the story. Since the 1990s, with President Aznar, the first plans for gender-based violence had been adopted; in 2003, the Victims Protection Act had been adopted; in 2004, the People's Party had tried to make direct victims of minors in the Comprehensive Act, and you said no. For eleven years, the People's Party has tried to make minors directly victims of this violence, and you have continued to say, literally, that it obstructs and distorts the message. We had to wait until 2015, with an absolute majority of the People's Party, to eliminate that is not the Socialist Party and to get children to become victims of gender-based violence. Even so, in 2015, you continued to turn your back on minors and did not pass the law amending the Comprehensive Law so that minors would be considered victims of this violence; you have turned your back on minors year after year, eleven years. Think about the situation of minors if they had recognized this right since 2004 instead of 2015; fifteen years. I also remind you that we have adopted the Victims' Statute to prevent revictimization, that we have granted more rights to victims with free justice and that we have prevented the abusers from receiving the pensions of the women they had just murdered. Since the People's Party it has been during these fifteen years putting gender-based violence as a matter of state and priority in our policies. That's where he's been from the People's Party, that's where he's going to stay, always next to the victims. On the other hand, you have come to the Government and have been forgotten. We in the People's Party have been fighting for equality for many years, working against gender-based violence without the need for any label, and it is not just a matter of data but of facts, and here are the facts of one Government and another Government. The People's Party has never stopped defending women's rights, even if we don't talk about heteropatriarchy, spokespersons or members. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. The People's Party, in the next parliamentary term, when we return to being a government - which we are going to return to being a government - we will move forward with the proposed law that we have already put forward so that they can be regulated under the same conditions as we have adopted today for the rest of the orphans; orphans that you have wanted to leave homeless today. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u58	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the point concerning the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2019 of 25 January, which takes urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u59	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before presenting for the validation of this House Royal Decree-Law 2/2019, urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations, I would like to remind the people who died as a result of these emergencies that we have suffered over the past year and to send back my deepest condolences to the victims and their families. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge the effort and generosity of those who responded to these emergencies. I am referring both to the workers of the various intervention and assistance services and to those who volunteered; to all of them, my gratitude and that of the entire Government for their work under such adverse conditions, sometimes facing situations that may put their own lives at risk. I compare today to ask for the validation, as has been said, of the Royal Decree-Law 2/2019, approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 January, which takes urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations. Since the beginning of 2018, a number of disasters have occurred that have caused emergency or catastrophic situations, that have substantially altered the living conditions of the population and have caused serious personal and material damage. I will then try to make a brief summary of what has happened. After a fall, in 2017, which was abnormally dry, during the first months of last year, 2018, rain and hail storms occurred, in some regions even with snow storms and in others with tornadoes or tides that hit the coast. These episodes had a higher incidence in the Autonomous Community of Aragon and, in general, in all areas in the Ebro basin, as well as in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. This atmospheric instability, as you also know, continued in some regions for several months and so the Autonomous Community of Extremadura suffered damage from heavy rainfall, hails and floods between March and May last year. [[The Lord]] Later, during the summer period, which lasted until September, there were repeated episodes of torrential and rocky rains that negatively affected the living conditions of the population and that led to damage in municipalities of the autonomous communities again of Aragon, Andalusia, Cantabria, Catalonia, Castilla-La Mancha, Extremadura and Valencia. During the month of August, particularly between 7 and 9, a large forest fire struck the Valencian Community. On August 6, 2018, a forest fire was declared in the area of the municipality of Llutxent, Valencia. The weather and the abruptness of the terrain caused the fire to spread to the municipal terms of Pinet, Quatretonda, Barx, Gandía, Ador and Rotova, being affected up to 3000 hectares, with a perimeter of approximately 35 kilometers. The fire reached various organizations and isolated houses, so that the competent authorities had to evacuate more than 2500 affected. With the arrival of autumn, and throughout the month of October, episodes such as the tail of Hurricane Leslie or the so-called cold drop were generating severe episodes of torrential rains and overflows of torrents that mainly affected municipalities in the autonomous communities of Andalusia, Catalonia, Castilla-La Mancha, Illes Balears and the Valencian Community. Especially dramatic were the consequences of the intense rains that - they will remember - occurred on October 9, which brought important overflows of torrents in the regions of Levante of the island of Mallorca, in particular in the municipalities of Artà, Capdepera, Manacor, Sant Llorenç des Cardassar and Son Servera. The flood caused the unfortunate death of 13 people, dozens of wounded and the relocation of 117 neighbours. While it should be noted that some personal damage could be minimized through rescue and evacuation by the State Security Forces and Civil Protection Services, damage was also caused to roads, vehicles, municipal infrastructure, housing, commercial establishments and some agricultural and livestock farms on the affected municipal terms. A few weeks later it was the events of 18, 19, 20 and 21 October, which also caused damage caused by torrential rains and overflows of torrents in the provinces of Malaga, Seville, Cadiz, Valencia, Castellón, Tarragona, Teruel and again the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands. In the development of this episode we had to regret the death, as you will recall, of a firefighter from the Provincial Consortium of Malaga when he was working in support of the population of Campillos. Finally, we must mention the catastrophic event that occurred on 23 May 2018 in the parish of Páramos, in the municipality of Tui, Pontevedra, where an explosion occurred in a warehouse of pyrotechnic material that was attached to a house. The explosion was of such magnitude that it reached a radius of 600 meters and its expansive wave felt more than 4 kilometers from the site of the events. The explosion also caused, as you will recall, the tragic death of two persons, the parents of two minors also injured, who have become the guardians of the Autonomous Administration; thirty-seven wounded, seven of whom are minors, and a total of 792 affected persons. Similarly, many homes were affected and damage occurred to the airstrip of the public lighting and wiring in the vials, the sanitation network, etc. Following the initiation by the City of Tui of the urgent actions of dismemberment, the presence of asbestos between these rubbles was verified, requiring the urgent removal of the remains contaminated by asbestos in the place of the sinister. In view of the events, taking into account the special gravity of the situation and in accordance with Articles 23 and 24 and the second final provision of Law 17/2015 of 9 July, the Council of Ministers agreed, at its meeting on 7 September 2018, to declare areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection to the Valencian Community by the fires in August 2018 and to the municipality of Tui as a result of the explosion of pyrotechnic material described above. [[Pontevedra]] Subsequently, at its meetings of 19 October and 2 November 2018, it agreed to declare areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection to the municipalities of Artà, Capdepera, Manacor, Sant Llorenç des Cardassar and Son Servera, of the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands, as a result of the torrential rains and torrential overflows on 9 October 2018, and the provinces of Malaga, Seville, Cadiz, Valencia, Castellón, Tarragona, Teruel and the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands, which suffered the damage caused by the torrential rains and torrential overflows mentioned above. The very serious personal and material damage resulting from the various catastrophic situations mentioned above, the magnitude of the emergencies, the measures necessary to subsidize the serious disruption of the living conditions of the population, the full restoration of essential public services and, ultimately, the recovery of the normality of the affected areas show the intervention of the General Administration of the State from the principle of interterritorial solidarity and in a subsidiary way, complementing the actions that in the exercise of their powers are entrusted, as you know, the territorial administrations. In this regard, Act No. 17/2015 of 9 July 2015 of the National Civil Protection System provides that, in the event of an emergency the size of which requires the intervention of the General Administration of the State for its recovery, the measures set out in chapter V may be applied, upon declaration of the latter, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 23. Article 24 of the said legal text, in turn, sets out the list of measures which may be taken when the said declaration takes place in accordance with the terms adopted by the Council of Ministers. Finally, the second final provision of Law 17/2015 provides for the specific empowerment of the holder of the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security to develop measures of a labour and social security nature. In addition to the measures taken in the above-mentioned agreements of the Council of Ministers, as on other occasions when it has been necessary to declare the urgency of such situations and in order to adopt those measures which require a rule of law, this royal decree-law was adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2019. All the measures provided for in this Royal Decree-Law, whose validation is requested, and which I will summarize below, are directly applicable to all events in areas declared to be severely affected by a civil protection emergency in 2018. Therefore, by the procedure laid down in Articles 1.2 and 1.3, they shall apply to events occurring in other areas during 2018 or which may occur until 31 March 2019, in the terms determined by regulation. The extraordinary measures provided for in this Royal Decree-Law within the scope of the Ministry of the Interior relate to the aid scheme provided for in Royal Decree 307/2005 of 18 March, which establishes subsidies for certain needs arising from emergency or catastrophic situations and constitutes the procedure for granting them. This aid is intended primarily for family or economic living units which have suffered personal or material damage to their usual housing or basic necessities. They are also directed to local corporations to deal with the emergency costs they have incurred; also to the holders of commercial, industrial or service establishments, as well as to the communities of owners for the damage suffered in the common elements. The Royal Decree-Law also provides for extraordinary aid for the removal - as we said - of asbestos in the area affected by the explosion in Tui, as well as for those natural or legal persons who have carried out personal or property benefits at the request of the competent authority for civil protection. Although these aids are of immediate application, without the need to issue any royal decree-law, the gravity of the situation has made it necessary to adopt the following extraordinary measures set out in this royal decree-law. First, to exempt from the income tax of natural persons the amounts resulting from aid for personal damage. Secondly, simplify the accreditation of ownership of the buildings concerned. Thirdly, to extend aid to cover up to cinema as much as 100 % of the emergency costs of local corporations. Fourthly, to subsidize the costs of urgent dismantling of asbestos parts and other toxic materials projected by the explosion in the municipality of Tui. Fifthly, cover the payment of allowances for damages awarded by the Insurance Compensation Consortium. And finally, open a new two-month period so that those concerned can submit new applications. Finally, but perhaps one of the most important aspects, this royal decree-law changes the amounts of aid to the communities of owners and industrial, commercial and service establishments to adapt them to the increase in the cost of living, something that has not been done since 2007, for twelve years. The Royal Decree-Law sets out important measures in the area of competence of other ministerial departments. A number of tax benefits are approved for those affected. In particular, exemptions from the IBI quota for the year in which the accident occurred and reductions in the economic activity tax, as well as exemptions from those of the autonomous body Head of Central Traffic in the processing of the casualties of vehicles affected by the catastrophic events, as well as the issue of destroyed or lost driving or driving permits, are provided for. On the other hand, compensation is provided from the State General Budgets for the decrease in local tax revenues that have occurred during these emergency situations in municipalities, island councils, island branches, provincial parliaments and autonomous communities. Special tax reductions are also envisaged for farms where damage has occurred as a direct result of these losses. With regard to labour and social security measures, this Royal Decree-Law provides for a number of measures corresponding to those usually included in such emergency decrees. Firstly, it is planned to exempt employers from the levy during the periods of suspension of contracts, considering the period of suspension as actually quoted. Secondly, it is permissible not to compute the period of suspension of the contract caused by emergencies in the maximum periods for receiving unemployment benefits. Finally, this royal decree-law allows for the application of moratoriums in the payment of social security contributions and that, in order to carry out the works of reparation for the damage caused, public administrations and non-profit entities may request from the competent public employment service the assignment of workers who receive unemployment benefits for social work. In the area of cooperation with the local government, the Royal Decree-Law provides for the possibility of granting a grant of up to 50% of the project costs relating to works for the repair or restitution of infrastructure, equipment or facilities and services directly related to the claims carried out by the municipalities, the provincial parliaments, the island councils and lobbyists, the counties, the municipalities and the uniprovincial autonomous communities. With regard to forestry and environmental restoration activities, the Royal Decree-Law empowers the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to declare the areas affected in the areas of its competence as a special area of activity and to declare the emergence of the works to be carried out by that department for the hydrological, forestry, collaboration for the recovery of the spaces in the Natura 2000 network, direct support for the removal of burned biomass, collaboration in the treatment of pests and the restoration of rural infrastructure. Similarly and for actions in the hydraulic public domain, the Minister for the Ecological Transition is empowered to declare a special area of action for the restoration of the hydraulic public domain the affected areas in the corresponding watershed and the emergence of the works to be carried out by that department for the removal of the plugs formed by plant remains, removals of sediments from the channels that may cause a decrease in the drainage capacity of them and repair of the margins that have undergone erosion processes, as well as execution of defenses at those points that are more susceptible to erosion. Finally, with regard to actions in the terrestrial maritime public domain, the present Royal Decree-Law also empowers the Minister for the Ecological Transition to declare a special area of action for the restoration of the terrestrial maritime public domain the affected areas on the corresponding coast and the emergence of the works to be carried out by that department for the restoration and other works necessary to ensure the conservation and decrease the effects of temporary futures on the terrestrial maritime public domain, including beaches, sandstones and coastal wetlands, as well as on damaged structures on the coast. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of all these measures, the Government has not only intended to be sensitive to the reality of those affected, but also to do so from the rigour and responsibility with the public accounts. In this regard, I would like to point out that the damage measures will be financed in accordance with the provisions of Law 47/2003 of 26 November, General Budget, and will be met from the existing budgetary resources in the ministerial departments and their dependent entities. Where budgetary shortfalls in ministerial departments are established, the actions may be financed from the budget implementation contingency fund. Finally, I did not wish to conclude this statement without referring to the legal justification behind the use of the figure of the royal decree-law to take the measures to which I have just referred. Constitutional jurisprudence has repeatedly pointed out that the Royal Decree-Law, as you well know, is an urgent legislative instrument to which it is lawful to resort when it comes to providing for specific situations of government objectives which require immediate legislative action within a shorter period than that which allows for the ordinary legislative procedure; or even that of urgency, for the parliamentary processing of laws, the political judgment on the concurrence of the enabling budget of the extraordinary and urgent necessity required by article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution always corresponds to the Government. Moreover, a connection of meaning or relationship between the enabling budget and the measures taken through the Royal Decree-Law has been repeatedly required, as you well know. The above-mentioned requirements I understand that, of course, they are in the situations caused recently by the phenomena described above, which have caused enormous personal and material damage in many municipalities in different autonomous communities. The measures that have been taken under the above-mentioned agreements of the Council of Ministers, pursuant to article 24.1 and consistent with Law 17/2015, are not sufficient, as I have tried to explain, to restore the normality of the affected areas and the adoption, with the necessary speed demanded by the circumstances, of those other ones covered by article 24.2 of the said Law, such as certain tax benefits and labour and social security measures, which require the urgent adoption of a provision with a status of law such as the present one. These are, moreover, appropriate measures to alleviate in part the effects caused by events on dwellings, establishments and farms of a different nature, infrastructure and equipment, hydraulic or land-based maritime public domain. In accordance with article 129 of Law 39/2015 of 1 October on common administrative procedure of public administrations, I understand that this royal decree is in line with the principles of good regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of the Interior. The Forum vote will support the validation of this second royal decree-law of the year 2019 that advances - that is nothing - towards thirty of those already processed by the government. On this occasion, when it comes to damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations, the urgency to take action is more than justified, if any, because there are episodes that occurred a year ago. In the explanatory statement which serves as an introduction or preamble to the operative text of this legislative regulation, reference is made to the serious damage in different autonomous communities, although there is no mention of the emergencies suffered in northern Spain last January, precisely a few days before the meeting of the Council of Ministers which approved it, nor has the Minister now mentioned them; it would have sufficed a brief mention to explicitly include the existence of these damage in the range of direct and complementary measures that the Government promotes for its implementation through this legislative package. However, I draw attention to the fact that the content of Article 1.2 of the Royal Decree-Law opens its application to the damage caused by storms of torrential rains, snow, hail and wind, floods, overflowing rivers and torrents, fires, explosions, etc., which occurred from January 2018 until the entry into force of this Royal Decree-Law published by the BOE on January 26, 2019. I therefore trust that the communities affected by the temporary Klaus in those days of January will also be beneficiaries of the aid scheme and served in accordance with the content of this regulation. I remind you that on January 23 and 24 only in Asturias large floods, floods and landslides caused the death of four people and a multitude of losses in railway, road and port infrastructure, as well as in housing, premises, utilities, agribusiness, equipment, sanitation, high-voltage lines, canals, vehicles and boats. It is to be hoped, in the end, that this new legislative tool will enable the compensation, benefits and aid for catastrophic damage caused in 2018 and also in 2019 to be tackled effectively, efficiently and quickly. In fact, the minister has just reminded him of extending the effects of this royal decree until the end of March. Of course, I join the recognition of how many professionals and volunteers took part in helping the victims, risking their own lives on many occasions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u63	Minister, first of all, I would like to say that we are going to vote in favour. Obviously, there are aid here that affects the Valencian territory, because of the damage caused by the Llutxent fire, which affected much of this region of Safor and the Vall d'Albaida, Pinet, Quatretonda, Barx, Gandía, Ador and Rotova, and also because of the rainy storms in October that affected large areas of the Valencia and Castellón regions, and, of course, of course, all those affected by all Spanish geography. We understand that it is right to help those affected, although probably the royal decree could have been passed a little earlier and have a little more immediacy with this damage. We see that in this royal decree there are aids, exemptions and tax reductions, direct aids and there is a specific section of tax reductions for agricultural activities. I would ask the current Government to take into account the motion we adopted on Tuesday here unanimously to help the affected farmers - Valencians, Batians, Andalusians and Catalans - for this unnatural catastrophe that has been the massive entry of fruit into the European Union from third countries. IBI exemption measures were requested here, reductions in the net yield index for the citrus sector or study some compensation system through crisis management mechanisms that allow Community rules for citrus farmers who have not been able to sell their production as a result of imports of citrus from third countries. Let us sincerely hope that these aids will not be delayed and we would like them to be before the April elections. My Parliament ended, as I told the President, by apologizing to the President, to the House and to all the citizens. In the Diario de Sesiones on February 19, Mr Cantó referred to my party as being a chestnut and I told him that it was a moniat, and that was written in the Diario de Sesiones. I think we both gave an ugly spectacle that I am not particularly proud of and should not tarnish the prestige of this House. I'm sorry, really, but my liver could do it. Mr. Cantó must have some obsession with me because he quoted me up to fourteen times in a five-minute speech. I'm sorry, really, because I could have my liver above reason. I sincerely apologize to all Members and to all citizens in general. [[Applauds]] I would like my apology to appear in the Journal of Sessions, as I see it to be. Finally, I would also like to claim the good name of the Valencian autonomic television professionals À Punt who in his speech Mr Cantó repeatedly called TeleCompromís. I have 30 seconds left, Mr. President. I want to tell Mr.Singed that I entered this Congress in December 2011 and Canal Nou closed on November 29, 2013, two years later. Do you know of any news or interviews that Canal Nou gave me in those two years? Zero, zero and zero.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u64	Mr. Baldoví, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u65	... a television from which Mr Cantó collected 134 000 euros in five months. I ask Mr. Singed publicly...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u66	Mr. Baldoví, just a moment. Mr Baldoví, in addition to having exceeded your time, you should stick to the question. Therefore, conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u67	Mr. Singing...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u68	We are not in a debate between you and Mr Cantó. The Rules of Procedure have instruments to ask, where appropriate, for corrections for references, but this is not the case with the debate before us now, so please conclude, because it is not the issue...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u69	I'm done. I've got ten seconds left...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u70	...and because he has exceeded his time in more than thirty seconds. Please, just go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u71	I'm asking you for ten seconds. I ask Mr. Cantó to respect the work of the professionals of À Punt...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u72	Your time is up, Mr. Baldoví. Thank you very much. [[The Lord]] Your time is up, Mr. Baldoví. [[Applauds]] Your time's up. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[The Lord]] Mr. Baldoví, please leave the rostrum. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: I had five seconds left]] Mr Baldoví, you are not speaking; please leave the rostrum. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: I think you're doing...]] Mr Baldoví, you do not have the floor, you have to conclude. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: I find it intolerable...]] Abandon the rostrum, I won't warn you again. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak very briefly from the seat to quote three questions about the validation of this royal decree. Firstly, I express my group's support for this validation. Obviously, we have never hesitated to support such issues, because it is the necessary and justified tool, as the Minister has said for such emergencies. Secondly, we show our solidarity with all the people affected by the events and who have generated this royal decree, whether floods or catastrophic situations that have occurred elsewhere in the Spanish State, and we extend our sincere condolences to the families of the people who died, as well as our gratitude to all those who contributed to rescue efforts, emergency efforts and to remedy the situations that occurred. That being said, lastly, I want to say that these elements which are a kind of palliative, which are necessary, fundamental, when these kinds of questions are given, are basic, but they must not be the only ones. Every time we have a real decree because certain situations have occurred, we always ask ourselves the same question. In addition to all the natural causes, which we cannot control, have we done something like institutions, like people, so that the impact of this new situation becomes less and less so, let us call it climate change, vorage, that we are suffering? I mean, aren't there certain issues that we can prevent a little bit more? We all know that causes can be given that are uncontrollable, but in more than one situation the human hand also has something to do with it. Therefore, in addition to decrees to alleviate these emergencies, let us work a little with perspective and make it possible to act in a more predictable way every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor. [[Pause]] He's not here. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe that it is justice first of all that my first words are a reminder to all those people who, unfortunately, have lost their lives in the tragic events that the Minister has described in detail. I want to send a huge hug to your family, friends and loved ones. To the wounded who are fortunately already well and to all those who continue to struggle to recover their health - blessed treasure!-, I want to send them all the strength and all the support for that recovery to take place as soon as possible. But I also want to remember all those people who did not suffer physical harm, but who experienced this traumatic and painful misfortune, feeling how their lives were put at risk or that of their relatives, friends or neighbors and seeing how water, wind, fire, stone destroyed their homes, their fields of cultivation, their livestock, their heritage, their way of earning a living, their hopes and their illusions. I would also like to point out that in these difficult and tragic times, the best of human beings appears. The acts of solidarity, help and surrender of a lot of anonymous people do not have to fall into oblivion, as well as the work of emergency services, medical services, the State Security Forces and Corpses and the UME, that institution of which all Spaniards are proud. I also express our respect and support to all of them. These kinds of laws are different from others because they are drafted with the courage and ambition to alleviate the pain, loss and anguish suffered and try to return some hope, optimism and joy to these compatriots to whom these kinds of causes and misfortunes made them pass such bad times. For this kind of situation, Minister, there are the royal decrees - for emergencies, for emergencies and for disasters - and not for other issues that were neither urgent nor extraordinary, but from which you took out or intended to take out political cut. I am now remembering the royal decree of Spanish Broadcasting, which, rather than an urgent royal decree, was an emergency to point out with the finger to those of you who wanted to put there. This royal decree is late, Minister. Do you know that this royal decree provides aid for people who suffered such incidents in the first quarter of 2018? Do you feel right that these people receive help almost a year later? I am from Cantabria and, unfortunately, a few months ago we went through some floods; not only Cantabria, but also neighbouring Asturias, the north of Castile and León, Euskadi and La Rioja. Because of torrential rains thousands of neighbors were affected by overflows of rivers, floods, Argayos and landslides. Very recently, last week, we have also seen - although with different connotations - how the mountains of Cantabria burned. It is a real human, ecological, environmental and economic disaster. Are you going to include these disasters in the royal decree or are my countrymen and my Asturian neighbours going to have to wait almost a year to get the help they need? They say that the human being is the only animal that encounters the same stone twice and I would add that the different governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party are the only governments that flood and burn over and over again, dozens of times, in the same repeated events. Climate change experts predict that in Spain there will be a decrease in average rainfall with an increase in temperatures, which will make rains focus on less frequent and more intense episodes and droughts and floods will be more common. Let us get to work and implement preventive measures that can minimize the effects of these phenomena. Let us develop, approve and implement flood risk management plans regulated by Chapters 4 and 5 of Royal Decree 903/2010 in transposition of Directive 2007/60 on flood risk assessment and management. Let us draw up a national fire plan for joint action by the administrations. Fires do not understand borders or autonomy. A fire that is generated in Asturias does not stop to reach the border with Cantabria, and vice versa. We need to work together with all the autonomous communities, because it is the security and heritage of all Spaniards. Obviously, we will support this royal decreeley. We could sort out a little detail on technical issues, but we're going to support it. And before I finish, with the permission of the President, as probably my last speech in this House, I would like to thank all the Members for the work, for the time shared and for the respect that I have always felt and that I have always tried to transfer to all of you. I must admit that I am leaving with a bitter taste, because there have been issues that we have not been able to finish in the Committee on Culture, but well, as this legislature has ended abruptly, as it could not otherwise be, gentlemen of the PSOE, it was something predictable since Mr Sánchez decided to get in the car with Thelma and Louise, with Rufián and Torra, with Mr Iglesias and with Maribel... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u75	Mr Alvarez, get to the point, please. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: But allow me to make you the spoiler of the film. I don't know if you've seen it, but you can see it whenever you want, the film always ends the same: the car falls down the cliff, always falls down the cliff. And you will see what you do with your car, but in Citizens we will never allow it; I am sure that from 28 April, with the majority support of the Spaniards, we will not allow Mr Sánchez to drag Spain on that cliff, because with those traveling companions... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u76	Mr Alvarez, get to the point, I'll tell you again. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO:... with these traveling companions, the end will always be the same: the precipice. I also go with the satisfaction of the job well done, the duty done. I've done my best at this stage. I would have liked to have done more, but surely we have also done more than we thought with just one parliamentary group, thirty-two committed, courageous and capable men and women. [[Rumors]] I also remember my technical team, whom I love and respect and whom I will always carry in my heart; I think we have done a really good job. I would also like to thank all the employees of Congress, who always strive to make our lives easier and easier and more enjoyable. [[Rumors]] Mr President, thank you for your time, and thank you all very much for this shared stage. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. Before we continue with the debate, I would like to clarify one point, because I have heard some murmurs about the last speech we have just heard. Over the last few weeks, we have heard repeated speeches from this rostrum of Members who have said goodbye and in one tone or another have expressed their gratitude or made a farewell speech on the understanding that it was their last intervention, their final intervention. It seems to me that it is from every logical and acceptable point that such interventions can be accepted, and of course, as long as I am holding this presidency, I will admit it, as has been repeatedly done by Members of one party and another. What I will not allow while I am in the Chair will be for debates to be opened that have nothing to do with the issue on the agenda, but, of course, gestures of farewell and thanksgiving seem to me to be from all relevant points and I do not understand that for them there can be any surprise or protest. Nothing more and thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr López de Uralde Garmendia on behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I'm sorry, Mr. Yllanes has the floor, but what we had on the papers was Mr. López de Uralde's intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. I assume the responsibility of our group for not notifying that there was a change in the intervener. Good morning to everyone and everyone. The Minister has already made a complete summary of the contents of the royal decree. My first memory is for the thirteen people who died in the Llevant de Mallorca, for the two people who died in Tuy and for the four people who died in Asturias in January of this year, as well as for all those who have been seriously harmed by all these circumstances that precisely comes to alleviate somehow the decree-law that bring us here today. On October 9, 2018, a huge wave struck the Llevant de Mallorca. There were five villages that suffered essentially the blow of this natural catastrophe, but the epicenter was in Sant Llorenç des Cardassar. Also Artà, Capdepera, Manacor and Son Servera, as the minister recalled, suffered the consequences. A tragedy that also lasted in his anguish because for a week he was looking for the last victim, little Arthur, who was located - I insist - a week after the events had occurred. The first thing I wanted to do was to express my gratitude to all the people in the emergency services for the effectiveness they demonstrated in those days and, above all, to the immense solidarity of the citizen who overwhelmed any forecast and who demonstrated that people from all the Balearic Islands were willing to come to help and participate in the clean-up and disillusionment tasks. So let us go ahead with our solidarity with all those who have suffered the consequences of these natural phenomena. [[Applauds]] This decree-law, as it could not be otherwise, will count on the support of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, because we believe that it is the step forward of the institutions to join this immense citizen solidarity that occurred as a result of this tragedy. But, in addition to thanking the collaboration and to be answered with this decree-law, more or less opportune in the matter of time, and without going into the evaluation of the concrete aspects that the minister has glossed sufficiently, we are interested in all those measures that have to do with prevention, because we believe that this is the most important thing. Why, because at the bottom of what we are talking about is nothing more or less than the harmful consequences of climate change that some still want to deny, but that it is clear that we have come upon it and that we will have to worry very seriously about it from now on. Glossing a Mallorcan poet: 'In my country the rain doesn't know rain: / or plou poc o plou massa; / if plou poc is the same, / if plou massa is the catastrophe'. It is true that in the Mediterranean we are accustomed to these kinds of atmospheric phenomena which cause catastrophic consequences, but it is important to have the answer always adequate for what can be brought upon us. That is the work we have done in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands with the adoption of a Law on Climate Change and Energy Transition, on very recent dates, which makes us pioneers in the State. There has been no opportunity - yesterday was said by my colleague Juantxo López de Uralde in this very rostrum - to pass state law. We are also pioneers in Europe and it is true that what we are doing is advancing a series of measures to combat the consequences of the misuse of fossil fuels that have also aroused Brussels' interest. Moreover, it is a law - I said yesterday - that has earned the attention of international media of contrasting solvency such as The New York Times or The Washington Post. And not only that, but we have done the job well and that is demonstrated by the European Parliament's commitment that the three islands of Balearic Islands, Majorca, Menorca and Ibiza should follow the example already set by the Iron Island and join the island of La Palma and the island of Arousa to start a pilot project in energy transition. From here we hope that this work will be absolutely effective. We too in the Balearic Islands, and in application of the Accords for Canvi, have taken the first step limiting the entry of vehicles this summer, at the highest time of entry of tourists, on the island of Formentera, which is a territory of special fragility, precisely to achieve this. Let us know one thing, and it is that this Law of Climate Change and Energy Transition, which is pioneering and awakens the praises of the whole world, does not like the Popular Party of the Balearic Islands at all. Moreover, the candidate they present has said that if they rule in the Balearic Islands, the first thing they will do is repeal this Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. It is a more obvious demonstration that, first of all, he is a person who does not respect at all the future generations of our autonomous community, who are finally going to receive what we are able to use in a sensible way, because we are usurers of what the previous generations have transmitted to us, and he already has an enviable curriculum. As Medi Ambient advisor in the government of the ill-fated Don José Ramón Bauzá, Mr. Company demonstrated his effectiveness in becoming not a real Medi Ambient advisor, but an absolute plague against the protection of the environment and the territory in the Balearic Islands. I was going to end with a few words of thanks, but I do not want to be diverted from the speech, as has happened to previous speakers. The important thing is that we are very clear that we are playing the future, that we are playing the world that we are going to transmit to those who come after us and that it is important to react a posteriori after all these natural phenomena caused the tragedy that the Llevant Mallorcan had to endure in October 2018. I take advantage of my last thirty seconds to tell you that it is probably my last intervention in this rostrum, that it has been an immense honor to represent the citizens who placed their trust in the Confederal Group in the 2015 and 2016 elections, that from now on the work begins in the autonomous community, that it is an absolutely exciting work and that we want to repeat the Government of Progress that has greatly improved the lives of the citizens of the Balearic Islands over the past few years. Of course, I am at the disposal of all your ladies and gentlemen, it has been a great pleasure to share with you the work of this legislature. Thank you all very much, thank you very much, Mr President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Yllanes. Mr Pradas Torres has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to establish our position in favour of the validation of Royal Decree-Law 2/2019 of 25 January, by which urgent measures are taken to alleviate the damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations. The first words of this group I want are to express our condolences to the families of the victims and their friends. Go to all of them our memory. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one case in which the use of the Royal Decree-Law is fully justified, in addition to those which establish the law itself and which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly recognized, as the Minister has said, it is this type of book situation. A rule of law that is born of the Government and is dictated in case of extraordinary and urgent need. In the case before us there is no discussion, the devastating effects of the floods, the fires and catastrophes reported in this royal decree required a rapid and extraordinary response from the public authorities. As certain is this statement as this rule comes to complement - it is something that I want to highlight because some groups have accused us of delay in the publication of this royal decree - and to formalize budgetaryly measures that, immediately, have already been adopted by the Government of Spain through the Royal Decree-Law 28/2018, of 28 December, being aid of a different kind, such as the one highly valued in my autonomous community of reducing the number of real days for field workers in the areas affected by these ills. By the way, allow me a parenthesis. This immediate response highlighted the insensitivity of the former People's Party Government, which spoke of the demand for certain areas that needed to be clear in the field and other technical drawbacks in order to respond immediately to similar situations that have occurred almost every year. Well, here the decision was immediate and no state seams have been broken. What has become apparent is that the governments of the People's Party are able, within a week, to remove taxes on landowners, but it takes many months to remove fifteen peonadas from a field worker. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, these situations referred to in the actual decree that we are going to validate today are already so common that they are not beginning to be such an extraordinary thing. I will give you an example: in just over twenty years fifty-five royal decrees have been passed directly related to floods, droughts and fires; the reasons are diverse, but there is one thing that does not change and that climate change is behind all these phenomena. On this occasion we are talking about Balearic Islands, Andalusia, Aragon, the Valencian Community, Extremadura, Cantabria, Castile-La Mancha, Catalonia or Galicia, but there is not a single Spanish community that has not been subjected to one of these disasters over the years and, unfortunately, it will continue to be so. It is therefore urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt preventive measures that emphasize the protection of our environment through sustainable development policies. The negationism of climate change, in this case, is often the worst enemy of nature. It is also fair to say that these situations test the effectiveness of our institutions, especially of our army, of the security forces, of the Civil Protection, of the firemen, of our health, of volunteerism, and it is in situations such as these where the solidarity of the Spanish and Spanish becomes more evident and the principle of solidarity becomes stronger; I want to customize, in this case in the Ministry of the Interior, the coordination of all these works. The State is the first institution to respond to minimize the consequences of disasters. Unfortunately, the loss of human life has no remedy, and we have nothing but regret for their misfortune and relief for their families, but in many cases, even if there are mortal victims, these misfortunes take the dreams and work of thousands of people who lose their homes; workers, small entrepreneurs and farmers see their projects disappear under the mud or after the flames of a fire too often provoked. This royal decree contains measures that will certainly not come to give complete response to all these losses, but at least will come to alleviate some of the effects. These are measures which complement - I insist on this - those envisaged in the agreements of the Councils of Ministers of 7 September, 19 October and 2 November last year, and leave open the possibility of extending their aid to phenomena which could occur until the end of March; indeed, there are incidents of even the previous Government and we have not heard the Group of Citizens complain since March, when they occurred, until June, when the Government was changed, from none of these situations; a Government such as the Socialist has had to arrive to collect this. These are measures designed to assist people by death or disability on the basis of the procedures laid down in Royal Decree 307/2005 or those collected in Royal Decree 307/2005 for the destruction of household goods and damage. Aid is collected to cover the costs of damage to industrial, commercial, agricultural, tourist, fishing, etc., as well as tax aid, such as the exemption from property tax and the tax on economic activities and compensation to the administrations, which leaves the autonomous communities as well as the Member States and, above all, the municipalities quite quiet so that they do not lose the volume of these revenues. With regard to labour and social security measures, suspensions of contracts and reductions in working hours as a result of these disasters are considered as force majeure. The Public Employment Service shall also provide exemptions for the purposes of calculating periods of unemployment when they bring immediate cause for the events covered by this Royal Decree. Aid is provided to farmers through the reduction of the index used for the calculation of the estimate of both income and VAT, apart from the reduction of peonadas mentioned above and, finally, a series of aid is provided to local corporations to compensate for certain expenses as a result of these disasters, as well as the consideration of financially sustainable investments in the works and repairs that form part of this decree. With regard to the prevention to which I referred to the beginning of my intervention, a number of measures relating to forest and environmental restoration are included to prevent these episodes from happening again in the future. The royal decree ends by collecting more agile and flexible procedures for the execution of all these works. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a real decree which has demonstrated the Government's diligence in dealing with crisis situations such as those in all these areas and which therefore deserves the approval of this House. I am not going to say goodbye, but I did want to answer the words spoken by the spokesman for the People's Group when comparing a trip in a car and naming the title of a movie. I'd rather mention Alien's movie, because they got into it with an alien on the ship and we'll see how it ends. That alien is Vox. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Pradas. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. My first words and those of my group are of support and sympathy for the deceased. We want to give our full support to the people who were affected by these misfortunes both directly and indirectly. I agree with the analysis of those who preceded me in the intervention. The year 2018 was convulsed in terms of climatology, followed by a cascade of disasters and disasters. The first months of 2018 in the Autonomous Community of Aragon with intense temporals in the Ebro basin; from February to March in my land, Andalusia, with inclemencies that struck and destroyed the coast; in Extremadura from March to May and also in August and September, with strong inclemencies in different localities of Cáceres and Badajoz; in August the torrential rains were tremendous in Andalusia, Catalonia, Aragon, Cantabria and Castilla-La Mancha. To this was added the very serious fire that struck the Valencian Community. Especially hard was September in the region of the Rise of Majorca, where thirteen people lost their lives and there were extensive damage, injuries and hundreds of people affected. In October, the storm and floods seriously affected the Valencian Community and several neighbouring provinces. In Andalucia October was bad, as many municipalities in the southern mountains of my province, Seville, were affected: Osuna, El Rubio, Aguadulce, Martín de la Jara, Morón, Marchena, Montellano, Los Corrales, Puebla de Cazalla, Badolatosa. In Malaga about twenty municipalities were drowned, especially in the regions of Sol and Guadalhorce. Another catastrophe is what happened in the area of Campillos, Antequera, Ardales, Humilladero, Teba and Ronda. It is the duty of the Government to provide any person with foresight and protection in the face of disasters of all kinds, since this involves life, physical integrity, the normal enjoyment of property and rights and the defence of natural and cultural resources, the protection of which is one, if not the most important, of the reasons of the State itself. The PP Government updated the National Civil Protection System Act 1985 with Act 17/2015, with the aim of dealing as quickly and effectively as possible with emergency situations that may arise, for the benefit of those affected and in compliance with the principle of inter-territorial solidarity. The answer to this law is expedited, since, by agreement of the Council of Ministers, it is determined which aid is intended to alleviate the damage that has occurred in the affected areas, whose public administrations have had to request such a declaration, so that the mechanism since 2015, thanks to the action of the People's Party Government, is much more agile. We are aware that the above-mentioned agreements of the Council of Ministers have a reserve limit of law in the case of those affecting tax subsidies or social security, which have to be made by royal decree. The People's Party Government recorded various initiatives in this House at the time of these events. Two of those we asked for remain outside, which were for Asturias and Cantabria. I hope that, as this royal decree enables, the damage and the situations affected in these two autonomous communities can be collected. The administrations concerned have already been set up. To give an example, in my country, the Malagasy Diputation - the one I know best - approved this same week 3 million euros expandable for the municipalities concerned. The persons concerned have applied for aid and this royal decree extends the deadline for submitting the application. Of course, they will count on the support of my group, but I ask you to use this time that you have not tortically, as you intend to do with the Permanent Chamber of this House, but to speed up and pay for this aid and not leave people without coverage. I would like to highlight and thank, if I may, your ladies and gentlemen, the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, as well as thank all those who have participated in the security arrangements and in numerous rescue and evacuation actions. Many thanks to all Civil Protection and Emergency personnel within the national network, the various autonomous communities and the municipalities. I would also like to express my group's gratitude to the Civil Guard, the Police, the Military Emergency Unit, as well as to the troops of the rest of the autonomous communities and local troops, in particular the Red Cross, who worked hard in these disasters, regardless of time or weather conditions, and were always helping all those affected. [[applause]] As this legislature finally comes to an end, although one already has a manual on how to cure oneself from awe after what has been said, I would like, if I may the President, to say good-bye with a wish and hope. I hope that the public service vocation of these people, especially of the Malagasy firefighter José Gil, who lost his life in the river, will serve as an example to all of us, to those who are coming back and to those who are coming to this House. I hope that the representatives of the true holders of national sovereignty will carry out this vocation of service in the general interest of all Spaniards, free and equal, regardless of where they live and, as the anthem and the statutory shield of my land says, do so for themselves, for Spain and for humanity. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. To close the debate, the Minister for the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u84	Mr. President, thank you very much. Firstly, to thank all the parliamentary groups for the demonstrations and, without wishing to anticipate the vote of any of the groups, for the widespread support which has materialized and which is a manifestation of the principle of solidarity which unites us all Spanish. Secondly, I wanted to reflect, which may be good for the next parliamentary term and which this Government and this Ministry of the Interior have done from the very beginning: it is the need for prevention to which I have referred first and also the group of spokespersons. Climate change, even if it is to be denied by certain ideological positions, is an unquestionable reality. On certain trips - let me just give you a minute - and, recently, yesterday, when I was in sub-Saharan Africa for other issues such as emigration, I saw the concern of their politicians about the subject of civil protection. They seek assistance for civil protection cooperation and training. I have always said, and we have the results here, that today it will be more predictable for much of society to face a natural catastrophe than other situations as tragic as these. I therefore appeal to that policy of prevention, of responding to any of these events for the future. Finally, I would also like to mention the concern about these catastrophic events that have been mentioned, which have subsequently taken place both in Cantabria and in Asturias. The Royal Decree-Law is from the end of January, but it provides in its articles 1.2 and 1.3 for the application to all catastrophic events that took place until 31 March 2019 and that will be developed regularly. Clearly, that is the meaning and the spirit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u85	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u86	We turn to the next item on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' opinions on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/88 to 110/99. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u87	Thank you, President. I speak from the seat briefly to determine the position of our group on any of these conventions. Firstly, on the economic partnership agreement with Ghana; yesterday we had the opportunity in this House to discuss the harmful consequences that the trade partnership agreement with South Africa has had on the primary sector, especially in the Valencian region. Such agreements have an impact on a model of asymmetrical, unequal, unfair trade relations, which have a tremendous impact on fundamental economic sectors in our countries, which generate inequality and unemployment, present very serious democratic deficits and, moreover, in the present case, put at risk the principle of coherence of development policies and, therefore, our group will oppose the ratification of this convention. Secondly, the tax agreement with Cape Verde will also count on our negative vote, for one simple reason: the international tax framework used to sign such double taxation agreements is being systematically instrumentalized by large transnational cooperation, with the aim of stealing resources, especially from developing countries, through tax engineering mechanisms. In addition, Cape Verde is on the European Union's grey tax haven list. Our country has its own list of tax havens and, as it is concluding agreements with these countries, it is taking them off this list. This is one of the main problems we have in preventing and combating international tax fraud: that there is no single list or coordination of actions. In these times when we are talking so much about threats to democracy, international tax fraud is the first threat to the viability of our democratic and welfare systems. We will oppose this agreement as well. Finally, the two agreements for the departure of our country from the United Nations University present a particularly serious case. The budget cuts imposed by the People's Party caused Spain to fail to meet its commitments to finance an international body based in Barcelona, but the situation is even more serious, because the City of Barcelona and the Generalitat committed themselves to completing that funding, and the People's Party government took two years to sign the role that made this fund-recovery viable. Today we find that an international body will leave our country because of this inexplicable abandonment of the People's Party Government. We are going to abstain because we understand the will of this agency to seek a headquarters that makes its work viable, but it is sad for the external projection of our country, it is sad for the role we want to play in the multilateral system, that a United Nations agency has to leave our country, because the previous Government has not fulfilled its budgetary commitments, and when it found a way to remedy that problem it took two years to sign the role that made it viable. We will therefore abstain from these two agreements. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Bustinduy. Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u89	Thank you very much, President. First of all, let's start with the end. The Socialist Group will support the opinions, as it did in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. On the United Nations agreement just mentioned by Mr Bustinduy, in 2010 Spain and the United Nations University signed the agreement established by the International Institute of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona. For an addendum of 2016 it became the Institute of the United Nations University for Globalization, Culture and Mobility, and the annual commitments for the period 2016/2018 were established, which has already ended, where there were effectively four legs, as Mr.Bustinduy, the Ministry of Education, the City of Barcelona, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Generalitat of Catalonia have said. The addition was completed in 2016 by an inter-administrative collaboration agreement, between these four administrations, and there has been an injection of Spain in this project, but since its establishment it must be said that the path has been difficult, tortuous, complex, and let us say that the fruits have not been expected by either side. The conclusion of that agreement has therefore been decided. With regard to the economic partnership agreement with Ghana, within the framework of the Cotonou agreements with the European Community, the agreement seeks to increase access to the European market, but also to promote integration, cooperation and poverty reduction. The Socialist Group believes that this agreement falls within the traditional objectives of Spain's foreign policy and promotes integration, poverty reduction - as I said earlier - and sustainable growth. Finally, the agreement between Spain and Cape Verde to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion aims to facilitate cooperation between the respective tax authorities in the performance of their duties, and enables both States to achieve a significant level of tax and banking information exchange. We are therefore going to support all the conventions and these in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u91	Thank you very much, President. We discuss international conventions of the Government of Spain, and once again the populist left votes against the interests of Spain, against trade and against our external relations. I know they don't like Spanish, but what have the poor Ghanaians or the poor Cape Verdeans done to them? And it is that in the new international board - which is no longer so diffused - there are two blocks: we, who are with freedom, democracy and well-being and the progress of people, and you, who are about to control, plan and subjugate us all. They share bloc with those of the fake news, against Spain and through the process, is the bloc of theocracies, dictatorships... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u92	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u93	You are part of the bloc of those who want to destroy the European Union of peace and democracy. Also the double moral bloc, because you vote today against trade with Ghana, but we saw one of your leaders cooking and at the bottom there was a capitalist electrodomestic, 1200 euros - it must be because of what animals are all the same, but you are more equal than the others - and wearing a banner of the socialist dictatorship of East Germany. You vote against trade and pay tribute to the genocidal Stalin. It's just creepy. We also saw yesterday a spokesman of his with a T-shirt for Maduro, for whom twenty years ago they landed in the country of my childhood, in Venezuela, the most beautiful and rich in the world and that now, because of his fault, he is the poorest. His speeches are no longer worth it because his photo will always be from the tanker truck barrier to blow up humanitarian aid. But the problem is not you - in all countries there are people who defend wrong ideas - the problem is the Socialist Party and its triple alliance of resentment, with which it has agreed since the motion of censure and with which it will continue to agree. We face a hundred days of the easiest campaign in Spanish history. The Spanish will decide - that is, in two turns - whether in summer we put the Socialist Party of the triple alliance of nationalists, populists and socialists, the alliance of the worst ideas of the nineteenth century, the worst feelings of the twentieth century and the fake news of the twenty-first century, or whether on the contrary we put the PP, which creates employment, increases well-being and brings progress, that of the ideas of humanity, humanism, freedom and democracy. In other words, we will decide whether the bloc of the supremacist Quim Torra, the terrorist Arnaldo Otegi, the dictator Nicolás Maduro or the ultra-radical Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, or a government of the PP, in favor of the European Union, peace and Spain... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u94	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u95	...of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, there are elections coming and we will campaign with three live: live the European Union and trade; live the Spain that goes well, and visca catalunya lliure de nationalisme. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well! All right, Jordi!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u96	We continue with the next item on the agenda, which concerns the debate on the whole of the proposal for a law repealing the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing an amendment to the whole with an alternative text. There is no reason to repeal section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. It can be improved, and that is precisely what we bring in our alternative text. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party Government launched in 2015 the new 324 of the Lecrim to fulfil a constitutional mandate set out precisely in article 24.2 of the Constitution, which says that all citizens have the right to a process without delay. Similarly, articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights refer to criminal proceedings without excessive time limits. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what this 324 does that some want to repeal: it sets reasonable deadlines for a trial not to last ten or twelve years, that is, no one understands that a judicial process can last so long. We therefore need to be ambitious in order to achieve effective and agile justice, and that is why the People's Party Government in 2015 made this proposal, a proposal that is in line with the above-mentioned constitutional principles, and that should therefore not be repealed. These are basic principles that we have to maintain and we have to improve. Ladies and gentlemen, some parties have based their policy on repealing everything: repealing the 324, repealing the Education Act, repealing the Citizens' Security Act, then we have learned that under the table they wanted to repeal Spain too, but that is not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen; that is not going to happen because the People's Party is here to defend our Constitution and our democracy. [[Protests.-Applause.]] No, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Montero laughs, but it is not a hyperbole, it is that we have seen it all the Spaniards: the photo of Mr Sánchez with the independenceists who want to break Spain has seen it all Spain, and now the Spaniards will definitely say what they have seen and what they have felt, ladies and gentlemen. In short, ladies and gentlemen, 324 is a general rule of a six-month maximum period of investigation for simple cases, eighteen months for more complex cases, which can be extended for another eighteen months, i.e. three years, but there is also another clause which says that there may even be a second extension in the trial of the investigating judge. Where is the impunity that now surely - with great larcas - will say that exists in this article? It simply does not exist if we speak in strict legal terms, and we do not make political demagogy with something of justice, something that unfortunately we are used to hearing in this House. This 324 of 2015 establishes the culture of time limits in criminal law knowingly, ladies and gentlemen, that the time limits are the mandatearies of time, which is a very large doctor, because it heals many things, but it also exercises its dictates implacably, and it does so in all the orders of life, also obviously it does so in law. But, more guarantees, in case this was too little. Another provision in the current law eliminates any risk of impunity due to the passage of time limits, since its exhaustion is excluded from the automatic filing of proceedings. This reform of 2015, ladies and gentlemen, was a logical reform that had to be instituted, and the People's Party had the courage to establish it and bring it to the House; there must be no cause with an instruction of ten years or more. A slow justice is not justice, the victims cannot wait so many years to be compensated, and the investigated cannot receive a bench penalty that will take their lives and honor ahead. The example brought him very well to this House a few months ago by Congressman Avelino when he was talking about the case of corruption of the Socialist Party in Estepona, the Astapa case: ten years of investigation, ladies and gentlemen, 95 investigated, but 39 were excused. Many of his fellow socialists in Andalusia then said that this was inadmissible in a justice that would have to be agile and effective, and it is true, they were right, who can repay the honor of these 39 innocents who lived ten years with Damocles' sword on their heads? Or that of thousands of citizens who have stumbled upon false allegations? Or in Galicia, as my colleague Miguel Lorenzo reminded me, where 30 mayors and councillors of all parties have been exculpated in different procedures that have lasted eight and ten years. Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot remain, as legislators, indifferent to all this? I assure you that even in these turbulent days the honor of people remains a very valuable heritage that this political group intends to take care of and defend over even its own acronyms. Because that's good enough, ladies and gentlemen, double measuring rod. This derogatory proposal is not going to see the light, it is obvious, but the words and the facts remain, and some have been hurtful and futile, they are lodged in debates that weep like prayers that fade into hollow speeches and half truths. In what balance of justice is it left to see a president of the government give a meeting of twenty minutes before solemnly announcing the advance election call? Now that we are talking about justice, ladies and gentlemen, what sense of justice can a government president have of lying about justice, and that as a prologue of the most hygienic and institutional act that has to exist in democracy as is the solemn announcement of an electoral call, which he can only do because he alone has that privilege, he boasts that he put a motion of censure because a sentence declared corruption in the PP, when in the sentence there was no criminal charge and the sentence is not firm? Others say, ladies and gentlemen, using legal terms, what kind of leader can support this the same week that the National Audience attributes to the United Socialist and Left Party the lucrative participation in the Fitonovo scandal, that is, the same legal figure as the Gürtel case, according to which Mr Sánchez put the motion of censure? [[Applauds]] Let us be clear, let us speak without double standards of measurement, let us act objectively in strict legal terms, and let us legislate for the future of the Spanish, not for the political future of the parties. Let us legislate responsibly, ladies and gentlemen. And this 324 has had a lot of responsibility. Justice is respected and the one who governs must be respected. However, we are here before the President of the Government who is able to agree with another who says that he will not accept the decision that comes out of the Supreme Court in the case of the trial. It's just that Mr. Torra said that, he says he's rebelling against a decision of justice, and with that Mr. Sánchez wants to agree, and he said he'd do it again. Mr. Torra said that we speak the language of the beasts and that we have a patch in the DNA. That, ladies and gentlemen, has been seen all over Spain. We therefore call on the Socialist Party to take more responsibility and to act as a result of what most Spaniards want, which is a coexistence in freedom and always with the criteria of our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after all that is happening, I want to think that the President of the Government is a rare opinion and, as Cervantes said, a swallow has not been a summer, but this is what we have and in terms of the debate on justice we have much to improve, but it is or would be desirable for political and partisan demagogy to be removed in the future when it comes to legislation, and when it comes to making a future in a public service that is essential and is proving fortunately in these years that it is a pillar of the rule of law, such as justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform is working. In these three years hundreds of thousands of dossiers have been brought forward that sleep the dream of the righteous. Rights have been compensated, sentences have been handed down and criminal proceedings have been speeded up, and it is true that there have been criticisms, of course, because, like everything in life, everything is better and we know it, we have met with the legal operators to improve this normative text, but we must also say that there have been important praises to 324. Ladies and gentlemen, what is certain is that it is better, like many things in life; as science itself improves its progress, the legislator has to improve its rules. These three years have served for a long time, the reform has been audited, and reality has given us a field of experience that is not insignificant, that we aspired to share together, yes, with the whole House, and there is our spokesman for Justice, Maria Jesús Moro, who has done an extraordinary job of concitating that union of all to make a great pact for justice. [[Applauds]] But what has happened, ladies and gentlemen? What happened? We've seen it and you know it, ladies and gentlemen. It has happened that those who today propose to repeal yesterday were abruptly raised from the justice subcommission where we wanted to reach that great pact that the Spaniards are demanding of us. It has happened that those who govern today blew up the parliamentary pact in the air, because they chose another way, another extraparliamentary pact with which they want to break Spain, and also an extramural pact of the Constitution. In our text which we are defending today, ladies and gentlemen, we have improved the reform and have proposed a mandatory communication from the instructor to the prosecutor's office one month before the deadlines are finalized. Alongside the concept of complex instruction, we also propose a new concept of extendable instruction, when evidence or investigation is delayed in execution. This concept will have to be motivated by the instructor, in which we legislators trust. There is no impunity here, we trust in justice, ladies and gentlemen, we support justice. Here there is no impunity, neither with this norm nor with any, and there is no impunity, because we have a Constitution that obliges us all, that is not to the letter, but that is a Magna Charter in itself, that remains as the root of a united Spain. Whoever intends to attack that root will attack us all, because in all of us there is sovereignty, in all of the Spanish people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, at this time more than ever, as my colleague Jordi Roca said, we are going to fight populism, we are going to fight the attack on the institutions. And we're going to do it in the polls and then we're going to do it in the government, with all the law and all the right. Neither Spain steals from us, nor is there impunity, nor are there any worthy rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen. The farce is over, the only rapporteurs are the Spaniards, who have brought this country forward during these forty years, with much effort, with much sweat and with much agreement. [[Applauds]] These are the rapporteurs of our democracy, our Constitution and our history, from Barcelona to Huelva, from A Coruña to Almería, from Bilbao to Granada. And whoever maintains the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, may explain it, but let him explain it with transparency, telling the truth to all the Spaniards. Because those who made a motion of censure to bring transparency to our country, what they have brought are pacts under the table that want to break Spain and the Constitution. Let the whole of Spain know, if that's what they want to do to re-agree with them, let them tell them to look to the face of all the Spaniards, who exercise the transparency they preached. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in the world we find various types of states: we have the centralist state, we have the federal or confederal state, and we have the state to which we have come, because unfortunately we live in a state where spending priorities are perverted to the detriment of people. In 2018 the General Budgets of the State that prepared the previous government, of the People's Party, included 28 billion euros for special arms programs; and in 2019 the frustrated project of General Budgets of the State, presented by the Socialist Party, included 2164 million euros for this item. This joy in bellicose spending has a direct impact on the hardships of justice. Take a walk through the courts of our country, especially those in small towns, and you will see the scarcity of means with which you work. That is why the claims contained in article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act concerning the limitation to six months of the general time limit for investigation are ridiculous. In many places there is no way to meet this deadline. And Article 324 itself, in its second paragraph, already produces blush when it lists the exceptional cases in which this time limit may be extended, because it reveals the impotence of our judicial system to deal in time with situations that are now so common as, for example, the investigation of criminal groups or the review of the management of legal persons, exceptions that show a judicial system proper to a poor country or, rather, a country that has no clear priorities for spending. That is why, while those with government responsibilities are not clear on the priorities that benefit people, it is better that we repeal section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, for the benefit of the principle of equality and the principle of legal certainty. Therefore, Compromís will support this bill. In conclusion, I would like to finish the speech that my colleague Joan Baldoví has not been able to finish before, because in that speech we were sorry about the denigration to which the public television of the Valencians, À Punt, by Mr Cantó, who repeatedly calls it 'telecompromís'. Mr Cantó, on that television that you denigrate I have seen news of you, I have seen interviews with you and other members of Citizens, the People's Party and all parties, so I ask you publicly to respect the work of the professionals; not to defile your name with gross lies and disqualifications; to do politics in a dignified, clean and honorable way; and, please, to leave the mud in the swamps. Mr. Singing, if you removed the earphones from your ears, you might be hearing what you were saying in this rostrum to conclude my colleague Joan Baldoví's speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u100	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u101	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the amendment to the whole with alternative text of the People's Parliamentary Group to the proposed law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United We CanIn Comú PomemIn Marea, repealing the maximum period of instruction set out in article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which we take into consideration on May 9, 2017 at this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we want to highlight in this debate is the time that has elapsed since we considered the proposal for a law until today when we are discussing this amendment as a whole. Almost two years have passed, and there have been no fewer than sixty-three extensions of the deadline for amendments, all promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group and by citizens. We can say without error that this bill has suffered and is suffering a genuine parliamentary blockade at the hands of the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Group in a systematic and coordinated manner. Even this same week the deadline for amendments has been extended again, also at the joint request of the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the sixty-third time they have done so. It is surprising that it is precisely Citizens who are committed to blocking this bill, if we follow what he said during his consideration in this House in May 2017, as well as in various documents of his party, such as electoral programs, governance agreements, parliamentary initiatives and a long time. In that consideration, Citizens were affronting the conduct of Podemos - I quote literally - for having reproduced late and badly an initiative whose fatherhood did not concern him. This was said because the repeal of article 324 was already being dealt with through the proposed comprehensive law against corruption and the protection of the complainant, on the initiative of Citizens. However, as well as their conduct, I congratulated them on bringing to the plenary an initiative that - they said literally - was closely linked to the fight against corruption, because the repeal of Article 324 - they continued - was essential to spoiling this possibility of dealing with complex causes such as those that usually concern corrupt defendants. The spokesman for Citizens reminded the members of the People's Parliamentary Group of what the associations of judges and prosecutors were asking of the Ministry of Justice regarding the suspension of the entry into force of the reform, as it was going to provoke impunity for criminal acts that should be punished, and then also remind the members of the People's Parliamentary Group of the file of the Pasarela case concerning the former President of Murcia. However, everything that Citizens said in that not so far back May 2017 in this House, referring to Article 324, has not prevented him from systematically opposing the parliamentary process for its modification, and precisely at the hands of the People's Party and on no less than sixty-three occasions. And in case there was little incongruity of Citizens, while signing with the PP extensions to the deadlines of amendments, methodically blocking the processing of the reform, last October, parliamentaryly does almost nothing, and on the occasion of a PSOE GNP, he again called - that is, emphatically - for the repeal of Article 324 to address the fight against corruption. Come on, it is not understood that if in May 2017, according to the words of Citizens, it was essential to repeal the aforementioned article 324 because it prevented the fight against corruption, however they decided to block until today, together with its author, the People's Party, the revision of this article and thus allow the opposite sensu that corruption is not efficiently combated. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I suppose the perplexity in which their followers must be subdued by their parliamentary behavior, only comparable to that of the Apostle Philip when he said to the Lord: The less I understand you, the more I believe in you, after he told them at the end of a dinner: today you will see me, tomorrow you will not see me and then you will see me again. Anyway, 'things veredes, friend Sancho, that will make the stones speak'. And as far as the People's Party is concerned, I just want to ask you whether it was necessary to block for almost two years the Podemos initiative in order to bring it to plenary, once the legislature is finished materially, this amendment to the whole that could have been articulated long ago as a partial amendment, without the need for this blockade through sixty-three enlargements and for almost two years. This can only be called postureum. For our part - I am finalizing, Mr President - I would like to point out that we will oppose this amendment in its entirety, and for the sake of speed and in view of the final moment of this XII Legislature, we take for granted what we have already said before this plenary regarding the current Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act when considering the initiative of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea has the floor. [[Pause]] He's not present. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I doubted whether to take the floor or not, because Mr Legarda has devoted all his speech to us, and it seemed that he was the one who marked the position of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. But some things need to be clarified. During the year 2015, Mr. Rajoy's government realized that our justice had some problems; they discovered that judicial proceedings were long extended in courts that lacked material and human resources and with a great workload. And what was the solution proposed by Mr Rajoy's government? Was it to bring into the House a new and necessary Criminal Prosecution Act? No, no, Was it to provide our courts and tribunals with more and better human and material means? Neither. Your solution was to limit the time limits for investigation, to tell our judges, our prosecutors and our officials: you have to do the same work you have been doing, but in less time. The most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is that you have not had the humility to acknowledge that your reform has not had the expected effects, that it has been widely criticized because it opens the door to some cases that could go unpunished by the passage of these deadlines or, on the contrary, come to trial as an incomplete and deficient instruction, and you remain in your thirteen with this amendment as a whole. They say in the text of their amendment that the reform has been beneficial to justice, that by repealing this limitation of Article 324 we will return to 2015, and, I quote literally: 'to a slow and unable to resolve within reasonable deadlines outstanding matters'. Is this how you define the administration of justice that managed the government of the absolute majority of the People's Party, a slow and incapable justice? I remind you that it was your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, then you ruled. [[Applauds]] I think they have not understood that the problem is not how long the instruction lasts, but why it lasts so long. Surely, the key is in our model of the investigating judge, an inquisitor and guarantor at the same time, and perhaps the reform we should consider in the future is to move to the model of the investigating prosecutor. But before we consider such a reform, the autonomy of the prosecutor's office must be strengthened and judicial independence strengthened. We know that this does not interest the People's Party, a party that has much more interest in controlling the Second Chamber from behind, as Mr Cosidó said, counting on it, yes, with the invaluable help and collaboration of the Socialist Party, always willing to distribute the vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary, always willing to torpedo the initiatives that Citizens have brought to this House to strengthen the autonomy of the fiscal ministry and the independence of the judiciary. Initiatives such as our proposal for a comprehensive law to combat corruption and protect the complainant, a proposal for a law that contains the repeal of the time limits for the investigation of article 324, a proposal for a law that was registered on 15 September 2016, up to six months before what we are debating today. This is a fundamental law for the regeneration of Spain and for the fight against corruption in the parties which, unfortunately, will not see the light in this legislature. So don't talk to me, Mr Legarda, about blockage, because the only blockage is the one that makes bipartisanism always with your disapproval of the reforms that this country needs. Both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have tabled abolition amendments to the final provision of our proposal for a comprehensive anti-corruption law, which contains precisely the repeal of the maximum periods of instruction. It is very common for this to happen, it is very common for the Socialist Party and the People's Party to agree together on justice and corruption. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that you have not only agreed to distribute the votes of the General Council of the Judiciary as if they were chrome, but you have agreed with the PP that Mr Rajoy did not come to the Committee of Inquiry in this house. [[Applauds]] We know perfectly well that for you justice and the fight against corruption are not important issues and that is why you are allowed to agree with the Group of the European People's Party. We know that for the important thing, to form a government, to cling to the Moncloa, you prefer to agree with the populists and the independenceists. Speaking of populism, I end up addressing the Confederal Group of United Podemos, the proponent group of the initiative, which is presented in the explanatory statement practically as an adalid of justice. Well, look, that was the same thing before you guys sat down and shared the council vowels with the PP and the PSOE, but it doesn't hang anymore, no one believes it anymore. [[Applauds]] But it is also that you left the State Pact for Justice for no reason whatsoever, as you then left the Pact for Education and as last Tuesday you broke the Toledo Pact. [[Applauds]] So we know exactly what justice matters to you, you care about the same thing as education and that pensions, nothing, you don't care anything. Therefore, our position on this issue has always been clear and invariable: we are going to vote against this amendment to the whole with an alternative text that looks like an amendment with a return to the text because it does not really change anything about the current regulation, because we do, I repeat, do want to reform the 324 and end the maximum period of instruction. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to the Presidency for your work, thank you very much to all the employees working in the House, and especially to the technicians and assistants of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, and, of course, thank you very much to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I've learned a lot from each and every one of you in the jobs we've shared. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Elizo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u105	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, President. Yes, the history of modification, repeal or whatever they want to call Article 324 is the history of an infamy. In the long history of its vices will remain the horrendous stain of this reform. The proposal for a law which causes this amendment in its entirety was adopted at the initiative of my parliamentary group some eighteen months ago. Taking advantage of the extensions within the deadlines for tabling amendments and contrary to what the majority of this House has said, this proposal, the repeal of a single article, is not going to be approved. An article that you, with the backing of your absolute majority and in the face of the harassment of the reality of your corruption, imposed on a stunned society against the criteria of the entire legal society, the complaint of the operators and the contempt of an increasingly stunned society. As in every perfect crime, to cover up a few files, those who were actually interested in shipwrecking in the bureaucracy of the criminal process and the material insult of the media, caused the prosecution to have to examine thousands of cases in record time, causing real chaos and a shift of attention from the already ill-treated Justice Administration. They were struck by criticism as blows that crashed into the impenetrable wall of their cynicism. At the end of the day, you were in charge and in charge of a lot, in charge of careers, positions and prebends. We are aware that this derogation is not in itself sufficient for a proper administration of justice as a genuine quality service, but this article does prevent its normal functioning. Let us make it clear that their intentionality cannot be other than impunity. The amendment tabled by the People's Group is more of the same, a rude call to impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to advocate the repeal of this article, an issue that should be peaceful and taken on board. Most of this House carries it on its electoral agenda. We do not understand how Citizens in this operation have consented to play the game to the People's Party, with its essential and incomprehensible extensions. We continue - this is a fact - to face serious difficulties so that judges and prosecutors can carry out their work, and you know it. To shorten the investigation time without increasing the means, in the real situation of the Administration of Justice is to introduce serious difficulties for the investigation of crimes to be completed within the prescribed time limits. This will have a special impact on the most complex instructions, such as large property offences, fraud, corruption and organized crime. Citizens may legitimately think about what would have been of the large cases of alleged corruption being investigated in this country and what result they would have had to be tried or filed within these six or eighteen months. The reform proved to legislate from the back to the reality. The existence of article 324 has led to the filing of numerous cases, which is directly a trick in the face of impunity. But not only in cases of corruption, such as the case of Pasarela in Murcia for the award in 2006, in which Pedro Antonio Sánchez was involved, or the case against Rafael Montero and Francisco Márquez for awards in Ceuta, or the irregular awards in La Alhambra, but also in cases related to organized crime and even, as an example, two causes of violence against women in A Coruña or Tarragona. They know that today it is impossible to investigate many criminal cases within six or eighteen months. They know that, in most matters that require more than the attestation and statement of an investigator and of the victim or witness - i.e. expert reports, documentation and let's no longer say whether we are talking about rogatory commissions - it is materially impossible for them to be instructed in six or eighteen months. They know that their reform restored a zero economic cost, but with a high cost of rights, in this case the effective judicial protection protected by article 24 of the Constitution. They know that leaving the extension to the prosecutor's office alone is a lack of coherence in a system in which the judge is still an investigator, who investigates and who knows that many of the complex causes are precisely plots of political corruption, which can lead to impunity of facts in which it is possible to include those that are likely to be more serious or more complex in the Criminal Code. They know this because six judicial and prosecutorial associations called for the suspension of the entry into force before this purpose was accomplished, publicly calling the reform of a genuine law a final point, a true article for impunity; because the General Council of the Advocates also asked the Ministry of Justice in its day before the entry into force of the reform; because the conclusions of the XXV National Meeting of Spanish Deans, in the third paragraph literally said about this reform: It will have a very negative effect, such as the setting of deadlines in the investigation, a measure of obvious voluntarist character that does not solve or contribute... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u106	Wait a minute, Mrs. Elizo. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u107	... when its cause lies precisely in the permanent shortage of personnel and means, as well as in outdated laws that we apply to criminal proceedings and that, Government after Government, no one dares to modernize. They know this because, in the words of the Progressive Union of Prosecutors, the reform of the 324 has resulted in a purely ministerial marketing operation in a failed attempt to end the scorned, by all, undue delays in the proceedings. The truth is that we have not been able - and several groups in this House, including Citizens, who have not stopped asking for extensions to this law - to complete a law that shakes the hands of the judges and prosecutors of our country so that they can fight economic crime and corruption, which is today one of the most important scandals that is undermining our country's democracy. As the associations of judges, prosecutors and other legal operators have done, we ask the Socialist Government to repeal this article by a royal decree now that our bill is going to fall thanks to the People's Party and the Citizens' Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Elizo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, the People's Party reformed the Criminal Prosecution Act, seeking impunity for its corruption defendants. With the gross excuse of expediting criminal justice, the People's Party imposed time limits on judges and prosecutors to finalize criminal instructions. Everyone in the justice world answered what was called the final point law of corruption. Prosecutors, lawyers, judges, all denounced this move by the People's Party to surmount its agonizing existence by the multiplication of its criminal cases. The People's Party had tried everything, resorted to corrupt police officers to stifle and dynamite police investigations, instrumentalized the prosecution through appointments, launched campaigns against judges to discredit them and undermine the legitimacy of their actions. But nothing seemed enough in his despair, we had to exhaust all possibilities and nothing simpler than take advantage of one of the endemic evils of our Justice Administration: the lack of means. They were fully aware of the complexity of court cases for corruption, organized plots, dozens of members, bank accounts in tax havens, testaferros, a modus operandi reproduced in all criminal cases linked to the corruption of the People's Party. We've seen it in countless examples of 'paqui palla'. The 'paqui pallá' was refreshing us a few days ago the Erial case, with Eduardo Zaplana at the front, a corrupt network of eighteen members that got close to almost 11 million euros, illegal commissions coming from the award of ITV and wind farms in the Valencian Community. It had companies based in Luxembourg, formed on the same day of 2001, with identical testaferros, acquired by the nephews of Juan Cotino and the former cabinet director of Mr. Zaplana; companies not registered in the Commercial Registry, one of them liquidated in 2012 to benefit from the fiscal amnesty of Mr. Montoro - the quadrature of the circle of impunity - and another that returned funds through a network of companies with unrepeatable names: Coast of Glory, Medlevante, Integral Geodevelopments, Turnis Silvatyca. Illegal money travelling around the world: Uruguay, Panama, Luxembourg, Andorra, Switzerland. White glove crime is called, money laundering, law enforcement, prevarication, misappropriation of public revenues, trafficking in influence, fraud in recruitment, tax crime, documentary falsity, illegal association, membership of a criminal group, medium Penal Code. All these crimes are attributed to them by the UCO, and all of this the People's Party wanted to be investigated in six months' time and, if not, if not, folder. And regrettably, they must be recognized that in some case this plan has worked out well for them. I'm sure Mr. Antonio Pedro Sánchez is very grateful to you. On 20 December we knew that the former president of Murcia would get rid of the bench thanks to this reform. The Murcia Provincial Court acquitted him of the crimes of prevarication and falsehood because the prosecutor's request to reopen the investigation had occurred two days after the six months of investigation had expired. [[The lady]] In its judgment the Murcia Provincial Court spoke of indolence in the investigation attributable to the Administration of Justice, but it is not true. It was not the fault of a judge or a negligent prosecutor, the ultimate reason for this acquittal lies in a plan perfectly orchestrated by the People's Party to which this legal reform was part; a plan to seek impunity for PP charges accused of corruption. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has opposed this reform from the very beginning. In July 2016, we presented a bill to repeal article 324 of Lecrim. In May 2017 we support the adoption of this initiative; in November 2018 we advocate in this plenary speeding up its process, and today we will vote against the amendment to the whole of the People's Group. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has not repealed this law in this parliamentary term - and it must be said loud and clear - by the blockade, obviously, of the People's Party and of Citizens, and of Citizens; a blockade that has lasted almost two years - it has already been said -, with sixty-three extensions of the deadline for amendments, absolutely disregarding the democratic principle to enable impunity against corruption, and today Citizens, in an exercise of habitual inconsistency to which we are accustomed, are trying to build up so-called pacts. Citizens are the ones who have to give answers to their actions. But do not hesitate, gentlemen of the People's Party, a new parliamentary majority will repeal this reform and the corrupt, without exception, will bear the burden of justice inexorably. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u111	We continue with the debate on the proposal for a housing emergency law in vulnerable families in the housing sector and on energy poverty. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Zurita Exposito.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u112	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon to you all, ladies and gentlemen. I also greet the PAH representatives who are probably listening to us. I begin by saying that today we are discussing an amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group without political connotations, which will no longer have a bearing on it, but which is a matter of principle, with the absolute conviction - I am telling you the truth - that this text that we are proposing is really better than the text of the original bill. We propose this amendment as a whole because we believe that this law of emergency housing and energy poverty will be absolutely ineffective and will not solve any of the problems that need to be addressed since diagnosis. What is needed is housing and legal security. I tell you honestly, because I believe so, with the same honesty, gentlemen of the PAH, if you are listening to me, with which at the beginning of the legislature I came up to this rostrum with a flyer of your organization, with this one I keep because I do not want to lose sight of its objectives. [[shows the flyer]] We do not want to lose sight of their objectives and we firmly believe that these are the ones who must comply with a housing policy. I'm going to end the evictions, end the water and light cuts, get a decent and affordable rent, expand the public housing park and housing as a right. All this is wanted by the People's Group and we have worked for and for it, not with the methods proposed in its original law, which have as basic principles the absolute interventionism of the housing market and attack against private property. After that speech, you interpreted that the People's Group was going to support this PAH law - that's how you spread it on social media - but nothing further from reality. We told him. We had said that we do not like this law, and we say it here, as we have also said at the innumerable meetings we held with my partner Raquel Alonso and my partner Miguel Ángel Paniagua. Why don't we like it? This law contains articles that could be declared unconstitutional, such as turning the right to housing into a subjective right; invasion of autonomous and local competences; prohibition of selling their own property. They are absolutely interventionist and disproportionate to the purpose pursued. They are all aimed at the intervention of the free market, which, moreover, is not that of the funds either of the banks or of the Socimi, but that of the private and small entrepreneurs, who represent 96 % of the rental market. That is the reality you propose. What we would like, Mr de Podemos and representatives of the PAH, promoters of this law, is to convince them that our solutions, which we have already adopted in the periods we have governed and launched since 2011 and which we propose, will be able to solve the problem of housing in Spain. They should focus on three axes: facilitating access to housing, sustainable buildings and cities and legal certainty in the rental market and in territorial urban planning actions, as well as agility in the granting of permits. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is summed up in two concepts, shortage of supply and legal certainty, and everything that comes out of there is no use, because it is going to be absolutely ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a no for no, because within the law there are things that may seem good to us, such as the amendments they make in the Soil Act to increase the public housing stock, or what they call urban solidarity goals, although we should also define the competitive fit. And to the rest of the groups in this House, which I do not know what they will vote on, I remind you of some of the proposals of this law, some of them required by Podemos in that small letter agreement of the General Budgets of the State of 2019, which fortunately for the Spaniards have not come forward. The control of rents by the municipalities is in this law. Allowing illegal occupations is also in this law. Consider a large housing fork with more than five dwellings or 800 square metres of surface area is also in this law. The compulsory transfer of housing, not expropriation, under certain circumstances is also provided for in this law. And in the corridors, the truth is that we all agree that this law is absolutely harmful, even the PSOE. The PSOE also, and proof of this, is that none of the measures that were in that rental decree, fortunately, has come forward by the votes of those we have acted wisely, such as the People's Party, and those who have voted not out of spite, such as Podemos. But even the Socialist Party continues to mislead the loss with the control of rental prices, continues to sell the rights of the Spaniards for a dish of lentils in the Moncloa, cooking a future pact with Podemos and laughing at those who do not read the small letter; and if not, that the representative who now goes up to the gallery to defend this, explains this news of yesterday: Fomento opens the door now to limiting the rents. [[shows a press headline]] I will not say any more; may they explain it, please, and may they clarify it to us all. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u114	But, in the end, I tell you that the People's Party is the only one that looks at them face to face and calls things by name. Because to seek to control rental prices is to intervene in the free market; that someone wants to live in a property that is not theirs and free is called illegal occupation, and it is a crime. And, above all, this bill ensures that the okupa is relocated to a house of similar characteristics. We have already registered a bill in defence of private property, which I hope will become a bill, for the fight against illegal occupation, and it will be a fundamental pillar in our housing policy. The compulsory assignment of housing is also to nullify the right to property and is also contrary to the Constitution. But we assume that there are vulnerable families to which we must continue to respond. Already the People's Party has done a great job since 2011 with the decrees, and then laws, protecting mortgage debtors, which have significantly reduced mortgage evictions; and, lastly, the moratorium of 2017, with the Social Housing Fund, with our housing plans, which the latter guaranteed housing to vulnerable families subject to both mortgage eviction and rent default; also the Mortgage Law that we discussed today in this plenary, which guarantees transparency, strengthens the terms of the contract and increases the time for default before a mortgage execution can be carried out. We agree that a housing policy is not a housing plan, it is not a real decree with four measures that convince no one. We all want a housing policy with capitals, and that is what we see from the People's Party, which is on which our amendment to the whole is based. We propose a package of complementary measures to which we have already been working since 2011 and which should focus on four axes: Facilitating access to housing, buildings and sustainable cities, legal security and defence of private property and combating occupation. From there, we have developed our measures to which we would like them to be added. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u116	We have proposed measures to facilitate access to housing and tax incentives to rent, which are to make the market more flexible and there is short-term housing but encouraging the lessor, not penalizing; measures to increase the rental housing stock and public management housing at affordable prices. We highlight the creation of public-owned housing to solve temporary housing emergencies and measures to alleviate energy poverty, measures to boost rehabilitation, with a particular impact on the improvement of energy efficiency, considering that this is the most effective investment to reduce energy consumption and consequently its costs. We are all full of words about sustainability and reducing greenhouse emissions, but what really needs to be done is to implement measures that make it feasible. The social bonus, ladies and gentlemen, is working and covers more than 2.5 million people but we understand that we must look forward to the future, we must look forward because this is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, and what we propose are measures to reduce consumption. Finally, I ask you to reflect. It is not now a question of filling social networks saying that those who do not agree with their political ideology we encourage the critical situation of housing, labeling the People's Party and some comrades, dealing with shame and ruin. Two issues must be left very clear. First question, that the one who fosters the critical situation is the one who has been ruling for eight months and has not been able to put a measure on the table except for a royal decree that served nothing. And they're still dizzying the loser. And I repeat to the MP of the PSOE, come and explain this in the rostrum. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u117	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u118	Secondly, it is a question of solving a problem and being realistic; it is not a question of providing unilateral solutions, but rather of providing solutions where all the agents of the housing sector are involved, of providing segmented solutions - protected housing, social housing and free housing -, of making the market more flexible, of making housing affordable with public-private collaboration - let us be realistic, of public-private collaboration - and of using empty housing. We will never bet on solutions that bet on total and absolute interventionism of the free housing market, developed mostly by 96% of individuals. And to whom do these measures that you propose affect? Ten million tenants, who have it as a formula for access to housing, because the effect with this law will be the opposite, will contract the rental market, will raise prices and no one will want to rent anything; and 4 million saving families, who have it as a complement to their incomes and pensions. The amendment to the whole that we are presenting today, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolutely realistic proposal, with measures diametrically opposed to those of the text that we had proposed, but that we are convinced that - together with those that we will be launching from 28 April - they will mark the policy of housing with capitals throughout the Spanish territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u119	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] And I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u120	Thank you, Madam President. The representative of the People's Party tells us that they do not advocate an interventionist policy and I agree when it comes to defending people, citizens in general, but they do when it comes to defending the bank and the big elites. Make no mistake, because both the PP and the PSOE have recently brought us many proposals with housing issues but none of them tackle the root problem, nor one of them puts in the center the defense of the people, of those people who before had it difficult to access a property and who now do not even find a roof under which to live for rent. They're going to allow me to say that I believe in a public administration that intervenes in the housing market, because it's a basic right and has to guarantee it, and it has to get people not to devote much of their resources to paying for a home so that they can have a roof under which to shelter. I at least believe in that kind of public policy. Therefore, I am not convinced of the proposals that have recently come, nor will I obviously support the amendment to the whole of the People's Party. Because, I insist, we were talking earlier about evictions because of the default of mortgage credits, which were exacerbated by the crisis, but now we are talking about a reality that is still on the rise, that is not overrun and that is bringing an increase at a rate of 5% per annum in evictions because of the objective impossibility of being able to pay those rents. This is due to the disproportionate proportion of the resources we have to allocate to access to housing, which prevents us from maintaining a decent life and facing the rest of the expenses that allow us to do so. It is a basic right, I insist, to which we should not devote so much resources and in which we should have the protection of the Administration. All this should also be combined with the lack of a public rental housing park that always appears in all programs but then does not have the investments it needs. There is also a lack of public policies that intervene on the market, especially to mobilize the empty housing stock. In the face of an empty housing that does not respond to the social function of the Administration, it must not be left without doing anything about it, we must put a limit on the price of rent - it was not wanted in the last royal decree - and we must guarantee, of course, the supplies and housing alternatives to those who have difficulties - I insist again - objective to deal with the payments. To the extent that the Government's policies have not been aimed at implementing policies in this regard and have been limited to completely inadequate patches, it was the PAH that had to present a text that comes to take an important step in the direction pointed out, with limits to the updating of rents, with a significant extension of deadlines for the rental or limitation of bonds, in addition to measures to prevent more and more empty dwellings as well as more people and dwellings, something at all, if I may say so, abnormal and contrary to any point to the necessary social cohesion. The PP's proposal seeks to limit this progress and therefore it will not count on the support of our group, which regrets that the legislature ends without substantial progress being made in the much-needed change in direction required by housing policy. If for something has been characterized the current legislature and the previous ones is by partial measures, many of them derived from European judgments which demanded greater protection of consumers, and which have also been adopted partially, late, badly and reluctantly. This has led to platforms such as the PAH to try to go further, which we thank from here for their tireless work, which in the future will continue to be supported by Euskal Herria Bildu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u122	With your permission, Madam President, I will do it from the seat. At this stage in the legislature, as I have already put before Mrs Zurita, a debate like this of an amendment to the whole makes very little sense. These are two reasons why I have announced that we are not going to support the proposal of the People's Party; one is the debate on housing policy, on housing scarcity, which is already being held as a result of another legislative initiative which we of course understood could have made in the form of amendments, which have already done so but could have had a greater impact on them, and not on a speech which at this time and in these circumstances of a final parliamentary term, without any possibility of discussing it but of even making a presentation to that effect, makes no sense. On the other hand, with regard to the content, he was told that in some way the same thing happened to the text that we approved in his day was Podemos's. To Podemos we told him at the time that his proposal had a dogmatic character and a centralizing tuff, and this is something that happens to him and for the same reason we will also reject it, because although the dogmatic character has it as regards the centralizing character, the concrete measures that it contemplates, with the exception of some of the mentioned chapter 2, we understand that they are frankly doubtful or clearly violating the competences of the autonomous communities, or at least the autonomous competence of Euskadi. Articles 1 and 2 are main but also include some difference. The measures in Articles 3 and 4 are, on the other hand, some in which we could agree with the People's Party on excluded contracts, minimum terms of contracts, extensions or disposal of dwellings, or the very good proposal on tourist flats which should also be covered by substantive legislation of State competence. However, the others relating to tax measures in both the area of income and company tax or those relating to energy poverty, which we believe are at least within the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, are not acceptable to us and we will not be able to support them at any time in the presentation that is currently under way and even less so in the context of this debate of an amendment to the whole. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u123	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u124	That is why I am already making the point that our position is going to be contrary to this amendment, and I call on those proposals that should be made in this area to be made in the near future, taking into account an expectation of reality and viability and not like this one where an amendment to the whole cannot be dealt with in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u126	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today you are presenting an amendment to the whole of the Law on Housing Emergency and Energy Poverty, no more or less. Then, instead, you constantly qualify as constitutionalists together with your orange branch and soon with your green branch. I ask you directly: are you constitutionalists? They say it every day. Breaststrokes are given by the Constitution, the sacrosanct Constitution, the Tablets of Moses. All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. Do you know what this is? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u127	Mr. Rufián, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u128	All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. Do you know what this is? This is Article 47 of its sacrosanct Constitution and it is a beautiful article that has been violating forty years without blinking. All the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership must be subordinated to the general interest. Article 128 of its sacrosanct Constitution. They have been violating this article, a beautiful article, forty years without blinking. I haven't seen you or your orange subsidiary defend this article or 47 in three years. The public authorities shall ensure, through adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during their senior years. Do you know what this is? It is article 50 of its sacrosanct Constitution. Even in three years you, constitutionalists, have not seen you defend any of these articles, neither 47 nor 128 nor 50, surely because they are beautiful and surely because they are social articles. Just as you, as you are demonstrating in this amendment, are not constitutionalists, but hypocritical. Over the past 10 years, 500 000 evictions, 800,000 people without health care, 750,000 families without income, 13 million poor, 25% child poverty and almost 40% youth unemployment have occurred. Gentlemen of the PP, this is what breaks a country, this is what breaks a homeland and not that people in Catalonia vote, and for forty years together with the governments of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party you are responsible for this pain. Today in this country there are people who each month have to choose between eating or paying for the light and that is immoral and indecent and no matter what name you have. No matter what flag you have on the balcony or in the heart. It doesn't matter what language you speak and it doesn't matter which people you come from to know it's immorality and indecency. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in recent times we have heard you complain, even blame us, about the rise of fascism. What happened in Andalusia is not the fault of Catalan republicanism. What happened in Andalusia - and it's not opinion, it's information - is the fault of the abstention of the left-wing voter, his voter and Podemos' voter, who didn't feel represented and decided to stay at home. We are not responsible for the rise of fascism, as we are not responsible for Trump, Bolsonaro, Salvini or Orbán. What happened at the Andalusian Junta is the reflection of a drift. We support his motion of censure for free; we approve his spending ceiling for free; we approve eight royal decrees of the nine, except that of vulture funds, logically. Today, we here tell everyone that all those who share the values of social justice, democracy, freedom and antifascism are ours, that we will be a front against fascism and that gives us, I repeat, the flag they have on the balcony or in the heart. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that both Mr Mayor this morning and now Mr Rufián are at ease; I hope you will be calm. I remember an ad on Majoral's clothes saying, "Mayoral making friends." Well, you make friends with those speeches, Mr. Mayoral. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u132	Indeed, Mr. Rufián, I am a constitutionalist. You have begun to read Article 47, but I will continue to read to you another section that you have not read and that says: The public authorities must promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules for citizens to have the right to decent and adequate housing. He therefore says that the public authorities, the administrations that are competent, should work in coordination, which we are not doing today, and should think of the citizen both the local and the regional and the central administration. And when it is legislated, it must be done by listening to the whole sector, by dialogue, but not by imposing, as you want to do with this law. And above all, talking and listening, for what? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u133	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u134	To obtain in this country a modern and good housing law for the next twenty-five years. Because Spain needs a modern housing market, with legal certainty, efficient emissions, renewed, that gives solutions to all citizens, both those who are in high vulnerability and at risk of exclusion - of course, the former - as well as young people, people with lower incomes or any citizen who wants to enter the housing market either on rent or on purchase. We need to increase social housing policy, because between the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the last 40 years what has been generated is that only 2.5% of the total rental housing stock is social housing, when in Germany or France we are talking about 15%. But to achieve that, we have to help the competent administrations. Municipalities must be helped to invest in social housing; autonomous communities must be helped to invest in social housing. We, from here, have to draw up a law that supports them. We also need to increase the affordable rental housing stock, which accounts for only 1.25% of the total park. Usually in other countries we are talking about between 15% and 20%. And you want to limit the offer? This housing park will be a public rental housing park with the right to land and with the necessary changes. Ownership is public and should be collaborated from the point of view of public administrations or with public-private partnerships, but ensuring transparency and a decent and affordable rent for many families. [[Rumors]] But no, instead of this which is what is necessary and in what we all believe, Mrs Belarus - it is not - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party in Commu Pomão In the sea with the PAH bring us a law of housing emergency and energy poverty - indeed, Mr Rufián - in which it attacks private property, promotes and encourages illegal occupation, intervenes the market by regulating prices and times and imposes the compulsory assignment of housing. Take it now! Is this constitutional? No, it's not. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u135	Wait a minute, Mr. Garaulet. I'm gonna stop your time. Ladies and gentlemen, the talks outside the Chamber. I beg you, please. The fact that we are on the last item on the agenda does not mean that speakers have fewer rights than those who intervened in the first place. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Garaulet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. This violates legal certainty. This attacks the market, contracts the market. These are old-fashioned policies. This was Franco's doing. Do you like Franco so much, Mr. Mayoral? This was Franco's doing. Yes, the expropriation of housing was done by him and the contraction of prices and the expansion of rental times. And you know what he got? That of 50% rent that was in 1950 - 50% owned and 50% rented - will be increased in 1975 to only 10% rented. Is that what you want, Mr. Mayor? Or do you want something more modern, something better, something for working people? I'm gonna tell you a case. Two friends of mine, Enrique and Diana, had a house for rent for 400 euros. Since they had a son and could not buy a house, they did what many people with a rental contract are doing: they went from rent to an older house and put theirs for rent for 400 euros in Murcia. It's not much, is it? Well, they haven't paid them a month's rent. It took them a year to get their house back and it cost them 15,000 euros. They're a working family. Is that what you see well, Mr. Mayoral? Why not? What are the formulas for legal certainty and more houses for rent? These friends of mine aren't gonna rent the house anymore. Maybe we can expropriate it or do some of those things that you like. So that you know what we want, in Citizens we work for a new model of responsible urbanism, which bets on the right to a decent housing, Mr Rufián, but also on an improvement of urban habitat. We are committed to a public housing policy that allows for a housing solution for families in vulnerable situations. We are also committed to a public housing policy that will provide affordable rental housing for young people and low incomes. We bet on the policy of the three mistakes - renewal, regeneration and rehabilitation - in the most proletarian neighborhoods and more workers, Mr Mayoral, who are the ones who need to be renewed, regenerated and rehabilitated; but there is no policy to do this. We need to bet on rethinking the concept of housing, by cohousing, by new formulas that will improve housing. We bet to remove bureaucratic obstacles, which will speed up permits and facilitate the construction of new housing more transparently. We bet to create another category of mainly rent-oriented soils, such as dotative or demanial soils. We registered a second chance GNP, Mr Mayoral, which facilitated the restructuring and judicial forgiveness of debts, payment and social rent for 400,000 families; they also stayed at their own home. Mr. Mayor, I understand you didn't read it. We bet on anti-occupational measures, of course we do. The occupation is neither legal nor constitutional, Mr. Rufián. We bet on tax incentives for rent and a public housing rental office. In short, Mrs Martín, Mrs Zurita, Mrs Romingera, we have worked in this housing legislature, but it has remained half-hearted. I urge you all to work together in the next parliamentary term by dialogue and avoiding noise to generate a modern housing law for the next twenty-five years. That's what our society needs. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín González has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning. My mother, what you have to listen to, this is a continuous learning. At this penultimate plenary session of the legislature, we have the opportunity for everyone to see in just one debate the total and absolute lack of shame of those who led us to the worst crisis in decades to hit urban ball. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am not even going to go into the background of your amendment as a whole, because they insist on the measures that have brought us to the housing emergency situation that we have today, more real estate speculation, more tax gifts to investment funds, etc. This today, ladies and gentlemen, is not an amendment to the whole of a law, this today is a gross attempt to erase from the map all the people and social movements who in the last ten years have shown that their lack of housing policy was not just a violation of rights or an economic model of ball and corruption, but that it was costing the life of the citizens to whom the Government had a duty to listen and protect. You have done your utmost to prevent the dignity of so many people from being realized in this Congress by the law of the Mortgage Platform, the alliance for energy poverty and tenant unions. First, they vetoed it; then they voted no; and then they presented this amendment as a whole with the sole objective of continuing to prevent it from proceeding. But you have not done all that alone, you have done it and you have done it Citizens. Because, of course, who needs the right to housing to be guaranteed when you have an opaque society of more than 2 million euros to buy a house like Mrs. Villacis, right? Who needs it? [[Rumors]] You, who now in campaign will play the seven differences, not only have in common to have agreed in Andalusia with the extreme right...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u139	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u140	... and a photo in Columbus that represents everything that threatens the rights of all today, they also share that when it is the rights of the people at stake and citizenship is organized so that this Parliament does the work that bipartisanism has never done, they put all the possible crazes so that nothing can come forward. This infamy comes from before, from long before. Do you remember when you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, took the PAH ILP six years ago with a million and a half signatures behind it and threw it in the trash? Well, that's the same thing they do here today, because Casado's PP shouts more than Rajoy's, but he cares exactly the same about people's most basic rights, that is, nothing. [[Applauds]] But today, as I said, they are not alone, by their side, Citizens two years ago burying the ILP for the right to housing in the Community of Madrid, by their side voting no to the processing of this law and by their side in the square of Columbus. The regeneration party was called, and time passes and the only thing they have managed to regenerate is the extreme right and the rift in Catalonia. Good resume, ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that today Citizens have even less credibility than when he said he would never invest Rajoy, and that brings me to the next question, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. Are these the people with whom you want to agree, with those who said no to the processing of this law or with those who say, again demonstrating their absolute ignorance on the subject, that regulating the abusive ups and downs of rent is to do Franco politics? Because that's the sad thing, Mr. Garaulet, that you have no idea what you're talking about. [[Applauds]] Or is half of Europe doing Francoist housing policies today? Please inform yourself, that you have no idea of housing, it has never mattered to you. Is it with these people that you want to deal with, that you've been blocking this law with your majority in the Bureau? Is this people you're imagining doing tax policies with? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I will make it very clear, the pact with Citizens, which your Baronies want, which emulates the government of Mrs Díaz in Andalusia, which Mr Collboni would like to be able to close with Valls in Barcelona, the only thing that guarantees is the continuity of a government for the elites, for the cuts, for speculation and for the precariousness of the majority of the people of the whole state, keep it in mind. On 18 September this year we said from here that passing this law was to amend not one but many mistakes; mistakes of a housing policy that has destroyed lives, that causes hundreds of evictions every month and that has led to suicide to José Miguel Domingo, Amaia Egaña, Victoria Mesa, Francisco Lema or Inocencia Lucha. [[Rumors]] We also said that only by the hand of citizens can housing legislation be enacted that respects the rights of all, because if not - and I quote literally - we contribute to generating that feeling of insecurity, uncertainty and fear that today feeds... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u141	Silence, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u142	I know that housing matters to you zero, but a minimum of respect for the people who have presented this legislative initiative. We contribute to generating that feeling of insecurity, uncertainty and fear that today feeds the growth of racist and xenophobic projects across Europe, and here we are, without PAH law and against the far right calling to the door of Congress at the hand of the PP and Citizens. You should embarrass them, ladies and gentlemen. All those who organize themselves and defend the right to decent housing, those who suffer in their meats what it is not to know if tomorrow they are going to lose their home or if they are going to have to leave their neighborhood or their city, do not deserve this legislature to end without us starting to turn around the disastrous housing policies that have been made in recent years in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they undertook, not with our group but with all the citizens, to adopt a reform that would allow us to live on rent not to be an impossible one, that would start to stop the vulture funds, that would really protect families and people suffering evictions, that would end the multiple abuses suffered by the tenants and that would allow the municipalities to prevent a price rise that is drowning families throughout the State. [[Applauds]] So far they have not done so, the decree that Blackstone could tolerate did not respond to that commitment, but this legislature cannot end without a new decree coming forward. I'm pretty sure - and many like me - that if we don't stop it in the polls, after April 28 they're going to give in to the wishes of War, Collboni, Díaz, Lambán or Fernández Vara to re-edit a pact with their citizens' friends. But until the last day, you have a commitment, first of all, to citizenship, to the PAH and to the tenant unions, which are all waiting for these measures, and, secondly, to this confederal group that has worked as the true guarantee of change that you never dare to be. So you fulfill your commitment. That's our demand. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u143	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u144	With all due respect for a matter as serious and as bloody as the lack of housing, the lack of the absolute guarantee of this right by the administrations to all families, especially the most vulnerable, I have to tell the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that before this last initiative of its amendment to the whole of the housing emergency law gives us the laugh, because it is soft, because it is not exactly laughter; grief, concern and even shame of others are the feelings that provoke its amendment to the whole, because they also bring it as a mockery to all those people who expect a serious and rigorous response to this problem; they bring it while they have had their processing blocked. We could have worked on amendments. They present it as the initiative that will guarantee the right to housing that you yourself have dynamized with your harmful policies being in the Government and with your refusal to all the initiatives that we have brought to this House from both the current Government and the various groups. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u145	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u146	The former Government of the People's Party vetoed the affordable rental law that my group introduced; a veto that had no greater purpose than to continue to favour an intense boom in the real estate sector, aimed mainly at housing owned and to favour private promoters. Harmful policies reducing housing subsidies and funds. The market was no longer regulated, with the tenant being unprotected and, in turn, hindering initiatives in the autonomic field. The public housing stock was also privatized, so only 2.5 per cent of our country's park is social housing. With this disastrous management we are allowed to come and teach us lessons. And not only today, as last week, they prevented the success of the State's General Budgets, thus eliminating the possibility of carrying out this economic increase, which the Government envisaged, of almost 43.5% in housing, with the main objective of promoting the offer of social and affordable rent and providing rental aid for the most vulnerable families. With their rejection of the budgets, they have prevented the budget allocation of the 2018-2021 Housing Plan from increasing and its content from being reoriented to reinforce, precisely, its social character and, in addition, they have prevented the launch, through SEPE, of those 20,000 rental houses at affordable prices. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's the commitment...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u147	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u148	... of the People's Party with families who demand peaceful access to housing, which ultimately demand a right that our Constitution recognizes. So don't come and teach us lessons, because they have shown society that they have no credibility for it. [[Applauds]] In addition to this desire to prevent the exercise of this right to thousands of families, they also voted against the royal decree of urgent housing measures on 22 January. There they were not alone, they were with Bildu, with Esquerra, with Unite Podemos. They voted against, despite the fact that it contained the necessary measures to promote rent. You know, extend the mandatory extension in contracts from three to five years, limit bail, charge rent costs to the landlord, ensure the protection of tenants from investment funds, limit tourist rental in owner communities and many other measures. And, I repeat, in this case they voted by the hand of the People's Party and the United Podemos. Listening to today's speeches, it has given me the feeling that they have all been put into campaign mode. Do not worry, the Socialists do continue to work and we want to explain that from here we do not surrender, and less if it is the defense and protection of the most vulnerable, however much that some try to prevent us from offering real and effective solutions to these families who demand something as basic as the right to housing. Therefore, we continue to work and we find it regrettable that with these policies so harmful and with all this neglect the People's Party now comes to mock the majority of the country by making us believe - or at least try - that they have solutions to curb the increase in rental prices. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u149	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u150	They come to tell us the goodness of their state housing plans, which are precisely lacking effective social measures, lacking funding and which are intended, as I said before, to promote the sale of real estate. In this amendment we are told about measures on energy efficiency, but we feel that they are insufficient. And, above all, they tell us of their interest in guaranteeing rented housing to all families who require it, but, in turn and in an absolutely cynical way, they dare to offer as a solution what they know they have failed: forced extensions in three-year rental contracts, corporate tax benefits to investment funds and profits to large holders who tax on property tax. They do not want to know anything about the tourist housing, how it gives problems to the communities of owners or offer serious alternatives against eviction. Those are his star measurements. I anticipate that if anything were to happen to them, it would make the situation worse for those who want peaceful access to decent housing worse. So we already know how it works, they already showed it to us and, sincerely, Spain does not deserve its policies, they do not suit it if we want this country to be more egalitarian. That's why we're going to vote no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. - ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE DELIVERY OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u151	We then turn to the last item on the agenda, on the election of a Member of Parliament, in accordance with the third item of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. The deputy proposed by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is Doña Irene María Montero Gil. This item will be put to the vote after the other votes scheduled for today. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Rule 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Rafael Merino López, I ask Don Manuel Torres Fernández if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u153	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u154	Don Manuel Torres Fernández has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u155	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the votes. First of all, we voted for the motion resulting from the questioning of people of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to know what is the commitment of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with the defense of the Spanish Constitution and of coexistence in Catalonia. We will vote on it in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group into Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 164 against, 170 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u156	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u157	Senate amendments. Draft law amending the consolidated text of the Law on Intellectual Property, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April, and incorporating into the Spanish legal order Directive 2014/26 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 and Directive of the European Union 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 from Royal Decree-Law 2/2018 of 13 April. We shall vote separately on the amendments. Let us start with the amendment to the first additional provision, paragraph 1, as it replaces the single paragraph of the text approved by the Congress of Deputies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes; 331 against; 331 abstentions; 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u158	It's rejected. Amendment to the first additional provision, by adding a paragraph 2 to the single paragraph of the text approved by the Congress of Deputies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 197 against, 136 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u159	It's approved. Remaining amendments to the Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 197 against, 135 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u160	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u161	Draft law regulating real estate credit contracts, also Senate amendments. We shall vote separately on the amendments and we shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment to the preamble, paragraph II. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 333 against, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u162	It's approved. Amendments to the preamble, paragraph IV, as regards the number of additional provisions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 156 against, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u163	They're rejected. Rest of amendments to the preamble, paragraph IV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 230 against 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u164	They're approved. Amendments to the preamble, paragraph V. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 263 against, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u165	They're approved. Amendments to the index, as regards the thirteenth additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 135 against, 199 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u166	They're rejected. Rest of amendments to the index. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 259 against, 76.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u167	They're approved. Amendment to Article 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 168 against 167.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u168	It's approved. Amendment to Article 17(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 165 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u169	It's rejected. Amendments to Article 19.6, the third additional provision, the fifth final provision and the eighth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 260 against, 10 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u170	They're approved. Amendment to Article 23.7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 135 against 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u171	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional twelfth provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 325 against, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u172	It's approved. Amendments to the thirteenth additional provision and the first final provision. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 135 against 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u173	They're rejected. Amendments to the first transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 231 against, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u174	They're approved. Amendment to the second final provision, with regard to the amendment of article 29 of the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts, first paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 163 against, 163 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u175	After a tie has been struck, in a few minutes we will vote again. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we again vote on the amendment to the second final provision, as regards the amendment to Article 29 of the consolidated text of the Law on Taxes on Transfers of Goods and Documented Legal Acts, first paragraph. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 163 against, 170 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u176	It's rejected. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Amendment to the second final provision, with regard to the amendment of article 29 of the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts, second paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 31 against, 302 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u177	It's rejected. Amendment to the second final provision, with regard to the amendment of article 45 of the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 133 against, 200 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u178	It's rejected. Amendments to the sixteenth, first paragraph, final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 173 against, 161 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u179	They're approved. Amendments to the sixteenth, second paragraph, final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 135 against 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u180	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 322 against, 11 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u181	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u182	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the Senate's amendments to the bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. We shall vote separately on the amendments. We begin with the amendments to the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 335; in favour, 250; against, 83; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u183	They're approved. Amendments to the single article.2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 335; in favour, 163; against, 168; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u184	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u185	We now proceed to vote on the Senate amendments to the proposed law to improve the orphan status of the children of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women. We shall vote separately on the amendments. First, amendment to final provision 1 [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 335; in favour, 135; against, 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u186	It's rejected. Remaining amendments to this proposed law. The vote will begin, [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 335; in favour, 334; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u187	They're approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u188	We proceed to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 2/2019 of 25 January, adopting urgent measures to alleviate damage caused by storms and other catastrophic situations. The vote will begin, [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u189	The royal decree-law is validated.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u190	We now turn to the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. First, the preliminary economic partnership agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, made in Brussels on 28 July 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 260 against 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u191	It was adopted. - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE TO AVOID DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF TAX EVALUATION IN THE MATTER OF TAXES ON THE INCOME AND ITS PROTOCOL, DONE IN MADRID ON 5 JUNE 2017. [[File number 110/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u192	Convention between the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Cape Verde to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of income taxes and its protocol of 5 June 2017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 260 against 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u193	It was adopted. - COMPLAINT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS FOR THE ALLIANCE OF CIVILIZATIONS IN BARCELONA, DONE IN MADRID AND TOKIO ON 28 JUNE 2010. [[File number 110/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u194	We then vote for the denunciation of the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Nations University concerning the International Institute of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona, made in Madrid and Tokyo on 28 June 2010. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 230 against, 8 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u195	It's approved. - COMPLAINT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONING AND USE OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY FOR THE ALLIANCE OF CIVILIZATIONS IN BARCELONA, DONE IN MADRID AND TOKIO ON 28 JUNE 2010. [[File number 110/000098]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u196	Denunciation of the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Nations University on the establishment, operation and location of the International of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona, done in Madrid and Tokyo on 28 June 2010. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 225 against, 8 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u197	It's approved. - AMENDMENT TO THE REQUIREMENT OF ARTICLE 124 OF THE ROME STATUS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT, ADOPTED AT 26 NOVEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000089]] - MULTILATERAL CONVENTION TO IMPLEMENT THE MEASURES RELATED TO TREATMENTS TO PREVENT THE EROSION OF IMPOSIBLE BASIS AND THE TRANSLATION OF BENEFITS, I AM DOING IN PARIS ON 24 NOVEMBER 2016, AS DECLARATIONS AND RESERVATIONS THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000090]] - GLOBAL ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT AND STRENGTHENING BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITY AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, AND THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA, OF THE OTHER PART, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 24 NOVEMBER 2017. [[File number 110/000091]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE ARGENTIAN REPUBLIC ON A JOURNAL MOBILITY PROGRAMME, I MAKE 'AD REFERENDUM' IN GOOD AREAS ON APRIL 10, 2018. [[File number 110/000093]] - INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL WORK ORGANIZATION, 1986, DONE IN JANUARY 24 JUNE 1986. [[File number 110/000094]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND ROMANIA TO ELIMINATE DOUBLE IMPOSEMENT IN RELATION TO TAXES ON INCOME AND PREVENTION OF TAX EVALUATION AND EXECUTION AND THEIR PROTOCOL, DONE IN BUCAREST ON 18 OCTOBER 2017. [[File number 110/000095]] - AGREEMENT ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PHILIPINAS, DONE IN MADRID ON 12 JUNE 2018. [[File number 110/000096]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE ECUADOR ON POLITICAL COOPERATION FOR SECURITY AND FIGHT AGAINST TRANSNATIONAL ORGANISED Crime, DONE IN MADRID ON 26 JULY 2018. [[File number 110/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u198	We shall vote jointly on opinions with dossier number 110/000089 to 110/000091, 110/000093 to 110/000096 and 110/00099. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 321 against, 1 abstention, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u199	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u200	We shall now proceed to vote on the debates on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law repealing the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Prosecution Act, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; 133; 200 plus 2 telematics votes, 202; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u201	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u202	We will now vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for an emergency housing law in vulnerable families in the housing and energy poverty field, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; 164; 170 plus 2 telematics votes, 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u203	It's rejected. ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u204	We move, ladies and gentlemen, to the election of deputies, in accordance with the third point of the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on official secrets of 11 May 2004. Election of a Member, in accordance with point 3 of the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on official secrets of 11 May 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the election by ballot, in accordance with Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Member shall be elected to a three-fifth majority, that is to say, 210 votes. Each deputy will write a name on his or her ballot. I remind you that there will be no ballot papers containing more than one name or this one does not correspond to a Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The deputy proposed by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is Doña Irene María Montero Gil. In this vote, two telematic votes have been cast, by Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión and Dona Esther Peña Camarero, who I am introducing in the ballot box. I now ask the Madam Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they are putting their ballot papers in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Has any Member not been called to vote? [[Denials]] You can open the doors. Let's proceed to scrutiny. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-21-CD190221.u206	Thank you very much. Votes cast, 328; votes in favour of Doña Irene María Montero Gil, 304; votes in favour of Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, 1; blank votes, 6; null votes, 17. Therefore, having obtained more than three-fifths of the votes of the members of the House, Mrs Irene María Montero Gil was elected for the purposes of the Presidency resolution of 11 May 2004. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was three and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
