ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u1	The meeting was resumed. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the inclusion in item VIII of the agenda for next Thursday, 28 February, of a new item on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2019 of 22 February of the Special regime for the Balearic Islands, which will be discussed after item 37. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the inclusion of the reference point in the agenda was approved. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - URGENT COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CHAIR: MRS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT AND OTHER 102 DEPUTATES, TO EXPLAIN THE REASONS FOR WHICH THEY ALSO KEEP AS MINISTERS AND OTHER OTHER CHARGES OF THE GOVERNMENT, TO PERSONS WHO HAVE USED INSTRUMENTAL SOCIETY TO BUY LIVING OR MANAGEMENT YOUR PATRIMONY WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF PAYING LESS TAXES, CONTRADING YOUR OWN CRITERIA DemonstratED PUBLICLY BY CONSIDERING 'IMMORAL' THE USE OF THOSE PRACTICES AND COMMITMENTS TO THEIR VOTES AND THE SPAINS TO BE OUTSIDE THEIR EXECUTIVE PERSONS. [[File number 210/000063]] - URGENT COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CHAIR: MRS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT AND ANOTHER 100 DEPUTATES, TO REPORT ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CONTINUING PLAN FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM OF THE EUROPEAN UNION WITHOUT AGREEMENT. [[File number 210/000068]] - EMERGENT COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT, IN THE CHAIR: MRS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT AND OTHER 103 DEPUTATES, TO REPORT ON THE DEFINITIVE POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN VENEZUELA. [[File number 210/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u2	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the urgent appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and the following requests for attendance will be discussed cumulatively: The urgent appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the House, requested by Mrs Montserrat Montserrat and 102 other Members, to explain the reasons why she still holds as ministers and other senior officials of her Government to those people who have used instrumental societies to buy houses or manage their assets with the aim of paying less taxes, contradicting her own publicly expressed view of the immoral use of these practices and committing herself with her voters and with the Spaniards to expel those people from her Executive. Secondly, urgent appearance of the President of the Government before the plenary of the House, requested by Mrs Montserrat Montserrat and another 100 Members, to report on the measures the Government intends to take in the Contingency Plan for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without agreement. Thirdly, urgent appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the House, requested by Mrs Montserrat Montserrat and 103 other Members, to report on the final position of the Government of Spain on the political situation in Venezuela. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to report on the various matters on the agenda of this sitting to which the President of Congress has referred. First of all, I will refer in this speech to the measures contained in the Contingency Plan on Brexit; then to the assessments related to the management of its assets by members of the Government, and finally to the political situation in Venezuela. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that this is the last parliamentary appearance in which I will have the honour of participating in this parliamentary term. In a few weeks' time, with the dissolution of the Courts, a new stage will be opened that will lead to the general elections of 28 April, and in them the citizens will have the floor to decide what the future composition of this House will be. This will result in an intense, first-timely-filled legislature. It is the first time that a motion of censure crystallizes a change of government in our country in the terms provided for in article 113 of our Constitution and, therefore, giving it full constitutional legitimacy, and it is also the first time that the Presidency of the House has a sign different from that of the Executive and is led by the main opposition party. Today, ladies and gentlemen, despite the difficulties in reaching agreements, despite the times when noise has overcome the will to build consensus, despite the denaturing of government bodies that have contributed more to the work of the parliamentary blockade than to the dynamism of parliamentary life, I would like to start by calling for parliamentary work. It will be the citizens who, as I said, will have the floor to set up the new composition of this House in two months' time and, whatever the result, we have an obligation to draw the necessary lessons so that the Legislative Power can live up to what citizens demand from it. And I am referring, above all and above all, to the opening up once and for all in our country of an open, diverse, dialogueable, inclusive and tolerant idea of Spain, which must also be reflected in parliamentary debates. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain in this House has to look much more like real Spain, where there is not a single way of feeling Spanish but many. That is the essence of democracy and of whom we defend a Spain in which we all belong and not those who think like us. That is the true spirit of the Constitution that should be preserved as the first rule of the House: to unite the Spaniards and never again to confront the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the process of negotiating the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union began on 29 March 2017. It was then that the British Prime Minister, Theresa May, informed the President of the Council of the European Union, Donald Tusk, by letter of her decision to invoke Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union as a result of the referendum held on 23 June 2016 in the United Kingdom on membership of the European Union. I am not going to repeat the arguments that I have already put forward in this House to assess what I consider to be a bad decision, a bad decision; a decision that, however, as the Government of Spain, it is up to us to respect, but which I understand and will always understand as an amendment to the whole common sense, to the logic of the times and to the channel of history. The result of that referendum, ladies and gentlemen - I will not tire of repeating this - is the paradigm of a time when democracy is reduced to the false plebiscite dilemma, to mutually exclusive options, to the simplicity of binary decisions - a yes or a no - as a way to solve hugely complex and nuanced debates. Euroscepticism was always present in British society - that is, we know it - as a latent threat that could revive at any time. However, with the peculiarities of the ever complex link between the United Kingdom and the European Union, this danger could be conjured up by the tacit agreement of the two major British parties, the Conservative Party and the Labour Party. It was the emergency, ladies and gentlemen, of a third actor, the UKIP, of Mr Nigel Farage, of a national-populist, Europhobic and nostalgic court of an era and of an imperial epic, which ended up poisoning this debate with lies, biased information and prejudice. We can therefore draw many lessons from these events arising from the Brexit. The most important, in my opinion, is that the ultra-right does not need to reach power to condition the political agenda, it is enough to condition other actors so that these are the ones who renounce their principles, it is enough to inoculate the virus to other political formations, it is enough to introduce itself as a true Trojan horse in the heart of democracy to boost in months consensuss that it took decades to forge. It was thus that an internal dispute within the Conservative Party ended in an institutional crisis that is far from finding a solution. It was thus that the Trojan horse of the far right ravaged British pragmatism from the very heart of the democratic system itself by hacking democracy with simplistic messages and false disjunctives. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot compromise with anti-Europeanism, you cannot assume those ultra-right postulates, you cannot, in Churchill's words, reason with the tiger when you have your head in your jaws. And here and in the United Kingdom, as in France and as in other countries of the European Union, that tiger is called ultra-right, and with the ultra-right one cannot go, ladies and gentlemen, nor around the corner. [[Applauds]] A little over a month ago in the European Parliament I called for the need to protect Europe if we wanted Europe to protect its compatriots, the Europeans. One can criticise, ladies and gentlemen, the wrong bet of austerity that the Community institutions made during the economic crisis of the last decade; I have done so, as leader of the opposition. We can criticise the gaps in legitimacy that continue to carry certain Community institutions; I too have done so. We can even censor the slow, exasperating in many cases, with which the process of European construction is progressing; and I too have done so, ladies and gentlemen. But we cannot walk in the opposite direction of history, we cannot deny the usefulness and validity of the European project at this time. That is why it is so necessary to take a step forward to protect a Europe increasingly threatened by the nostalgics of provincial isolationism. We have never been so aware of the entity of the global threats that haunt us. Above borders, above national selfishness, we face challenges that are not going to be stopped by retreats or by exclusive rhetoric. For that and not for anything else serves Europe, ladies and gentlemen, to protect us from the temptation of smallness and to give us a powerful instrument with which to look in front of other global actors, whether they be big corporations, big economic powers... Union makes strength, and division and withdrawal make us infinitely weaker. The strength of a united Europe is born of its ability to face these challenges from civic patriotism, which is built from the communion of shared values, which appeals to an identity, which is the European one, which does not undermine at all but reinforces as complementary our Spanish, Catalan, Galician, Madridn, Murcian, Andalusian..., any of them. To give up these values, therefore, is to weaken Europe and to weaken ourselves. Let us bear this in mind precisely at this historic moment in our societies. Ladies and gentlemen, when last June I took office as President of the Government, the European Commission's task force for Brexit has been negotiating the UK withdrawal agreement for over a year. The negotiation was therefore at a very advanced stage. On the other hand, I have to tell you that no preparatory work had begun in Spain for the eventual UK exit scenario without agreement - i.e. the cliff-edge - without even a draft contingency plan made by the previous government. My main objective from the outset, ladies and gentlemen, was to ensure that the United Kingdom's decision to withdraw from the European Union had the least possible impact on citizenship and, of course, also on the companies that had invested in the United Kingdom. Look, my first participation in the European Council - that is what is called the European Council dealing with Brexit, composed of representatives of the 27 Member States without the participation of the United Kingdom - took place on 29 June 2018. [[Article 50]] At that Council, the chief negotiator of the European Commission, Mr Barnier, reported that 80% of the withdrawal agreement was already being negotiated, although in the remaining 20% there were crucial issues on which agreement had not yet been reached. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already informed the House, I said a number of things at that European Council. First, I insisted that the rights and interests of citizens should be the high priority of negotiation. Secondly, I stressed the importance of respecting the essential principles of the European Union. And, thirdly, I warned at the time that a matter of enormous importance to our country, an issue affecting the national interest, such as Gibraltar, was still pending; I will return to this issue later. The negotiations were addressed at the informal meeting of Heads of State and Government of the European Union held in Salzburg and at the European Council in October. [[Article 50]] Finally, on 25 November last year in a European Council - another extraordinary article 50 - once I obtained the necessary guarantees on the question of Gibraltar, the European Council endorsed the withdrawal agreement and the future political declaration of the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The first of them, the agreement reached, was and is the best possible. Firstly, it preserves the rights of citizens in the United Kingdom and the British in the European Union. Secondly, it covers the commitments made and set by the financial framework. Thirdly, it provides a reasonable framework for the question of Northern Ireland and also Gibraltar. In short, we achieved a balance that laid the groundwork for a future relationship that we all want to be close and beneficial to both sides, to the European Union and to the United Kingdom. The agreement provides for a transitional period, as you know, until 31 December 2020 and extendable for two years to allow the United Kingdom and the European Union to adapt to the new situation. The European Commission and its chief negotiator, Mr Barnier, negotiated with the conviction that the difficult commitments made by the European Union would be accepted by the Member States in order to obtain an orderly Brexit, an orderly and agreed exit, but also with the belief that the text agreed by the British Government could be ratified by the trusted Parliament. Unfortunately, as we have seen in recent months, this has not happened so far. There is very little time left for 29 March, which - as you know - is the date to materialize the Brexit, and the agreement remains unratified. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that time is pressing and that the signs are nothing good. Ladies and gentlemen, the withdrawal agreement is accompanied by a political declaration laying down the main lines of the European Union's future relationship with the United Kingdom. Such a declaration reflects the common will to maintain an intense economic relationship; a fundamental objective for our country, taking into account the trade surplus we have with the United Kingdom. This document also sets out the objective of an ambitious agreement on air transport, which is fundamental to us - among other things, because many of the tourists who come to our country come from the United Kingdom - and on fisheries, where the objective of linking access to water and markets is stated, and a fisheries agreement must be concluded before the end of the transitional period. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to convey to you that we are prepared to amend the declaration, as the Government of Spain, to make it more ambitious if the United Kingdom changes the red lines it has established for negotiation. The declaration reaffirms elements which were and are fundamental to Spain and which I have been insisting on in all the European Councils and also in this House when we discussed the subject of Brexit: firstly, respect for the autonomy of decision-making by the European Union; secondly, the integrity of the internal market; and, thirdly, - very important - respect for the four defining freedoms of the European project. Let me now turn to Gibraltar in more detail. Ladies and gentlemen, in what I have always considered to be a genuine question of state, I have taken a decision that is clear and also revealing. I maintained not only the approach of open negotiation by the previous Administration, but even the negotiating team of the previous Administration remained with this Government. Repeat: same negotiating approach and same negotiating team. That approach, ladies and gentlemen, was based on a key differentiation between the transitional period and the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. As regards the transitional period, the negotiation culminated in a protocol forming part of the withdrawal agreement supplemented by several agreements strengthening cooperation in the field of citizens' rights - which is very important for workers in the Gibraltar Field - tobacco, the environment and something fundamental such as police and customs cooperation in this area. During this period, we were pursuing two clear objectives. On the one hand, as I have told you before, the mobility of citizens and frontier workers, safeguarding their rights, and, on the other hand, the process of rationalising certain key aspects, such as police, environmental cooperation and tobacco prices, which must culminate in the negotiation on the future relationship between Spain and the European Union, linking Gibraltar, and always with a clear goal, of allowing balanced socio-economic development in the Campo de Gibraltar, which is the objective of the Government of Spain. As you know, when the text of the political declaration was published, we discovered that it did not foresee the need for any agreement affecting Gibraltar to have the approval of the Government of Spain. For this reason, I did not accept the withdrawal agreement or the future political declaration until I obtained the maximum guarantees for Spain that would ensure that the future relationship with the European Union, as regards Gibraltar, logically, goes unexcusably through Spain. The institutional shielding achieved can be described as optimal and is articulated around several elements, which I would like to share with all of you. Firstly, we have two statements, from the European Commission and the European Council, on the one hand, and from the United Kingdom, on the other, contained in letters from President Juncker and President Tusk and the British Permanent Representative rejecting the fact that Article 184 contained in that agreement applies to the content of the future relationship, including the territorial area. Secondly, we have obtained a statement from the Council and the European Commission, which shields Spain's position in the face of future negotiations. I would like to insist that this is a joint statement by the European Council and the European Commission, which is, after all, the guardian of compliance with the treaties, exclusive to the question of Gibraltar. The shielding achieved ensures Gibraltar's exclusion from negotiations for the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, something that had not happened so far, ladies and gentlemen; and, furthermore, Spain's leadership in defining the relationship that the European Union may have with Gibraltar is acknowledged, requiring Spain's consent to negotiate any implementing agreement with Gibraltar. And in case anyone has any doubts about the significance of this multiple guarantee, I would like to recall again in this House the assessments made by the various European leaders, the last of them the German Foreign Minister, who clearly say that all the agreements reached by the Spanish Government have legal validity. I am sure that some skeptics, in my words, will not doubt those expressed by other European leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, given the uncertainties surrounding the eventual ratification of the withdrawal agreement, which you have seen reflected over the last few weeks and, in particular, after the vote lost by the British Government, there is one aspect which I think is of particular relevance and which I would like to emphasise. The declaration on the future relationship recognizing the special role of Spain does not contain any mention of the withdrawal agreement. This is very important because, in other words, what we want to say is that everything we have agreed on Gibraltar will remain in force, even in the case of a non-retirement agreement or a cliff-edge. As you know, on 15 January the British Parliament rejected the withdrawal agreement by a very large majority, as I have told you before. This scenario undoubtedly increases the risk of a withdrawal without agreement. Prime Minister Theresa May announced her intention to submit to the withdrawal agreement for a second vote in mid-March, if she could get adjustments on the implementation of the backstop in Northern Ireland. The position of Spain, as I have conveyed to Prime Minister Theresa May in various telephone conversations, is the same: it is not possible to temporarily limit the backstop or a unilateral exit from it. By its very nature as a security mechanism, it is not possible to set a time limit; it is not only a question of solidarity with one of our main partners, Ireland, but also of preserving the peace that has hardly been achieved in Northern Ireland for decades. It cannot be ruled out that the British Prime Minister is requesting an extension of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, as the door opened yesterday to do - and I want to make it clear - in view of this possible position of the British Government, which, although Spain is not going to oppose the granting of any extension, it must have a certain prospect of resolution; that is, prolonging uncertainty by delaying deadlines is not a reasonable or desirable alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government has taken into account all possible scenarios in this complex process, including, logically, the possibility of the United Kingdom leaving without the agreement of the European Union. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, we had to start work on almost zero preparation because the previous administration had done absolutely nothing. [[Rumors]] The report on the contingency planning of the Spanish Government was presented to the Council of Ministers on 11 January, in the face of an unagreed exit scenario from the United Kingdom of the European Union, and the national measures complement those prepared by the European Commission which naturally cover areas of Community competence. The plans are aimed at two objectives: firstly, to preserve the interests of the Spanish and British citizens who exercised their right to freedom of movement before the date of withdrawal; and secondly, to preserve the normal development of Spanish trade flows and economic interests. The measures adopted in this context include three lines of action: the first, the normative action; the second, the action of logistical preparation; and the third, communication actions. In the normative sphere, the Government has chosen the figure of the Royal Decree-Law to develop the main contingency measures. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I announce to you the following: This next Friday, the Council of Ministers will approve the royal decree-law that will be immediately referred to the House for validation; a royal decree-law, which will be a sort of royal decree omnibus, in order to be able to deal with all the eventualities of a disordered Brexit. As you know, this is a legislative tool that allows the Government, in case of extraordinary and urgent need, to adopt rules with a law rank that must be validated within thirty days by the Congress of Deputies. Given the uncertainties they still plan, the validity of the rule will logically depend on the effective exit from the United Kingdom without an agreement adopted, in accordance with Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The regulation will be aligned with the contingency principles established by the European Commission, and these are: firstly - and this is important, ladies and gentlemen - contingency rules not intended to regulate definitively, but to facilitate the transit to a new situation and therefore subject to a temporary limit; and secondly, they are unilateral rules, although conditional on the United Kingdom providing treatment equivalent to Spanish nationals in that country. Therefore, temporality and unilaterality conditioned on an equivalence in the treatment. The safeguarding of the rights of Spaniards in the United Kingdom is therefore a fundamental objective for the Government of Spain, and the decree establishes various areas of action. With regard to citizenship, all young people and not so young people living in the United Kingdom are covered by measures relating to residence, cross-border workers, access to protections and public service, social security, health care and education, as well as rules on administrative and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which relate mainly to European arrest and surrender orders issued before the date of withdrawal. In the chapter on economic activities, measures are taken in the areas of financial services - which are logically important - customs, public sector contracts, authorizations and licences; ultimately, driving licences, defence and dual-use materials, weapons, explosives and transport. Contingency measures will logically, where appropriate, extend to Gibraltar. In addition to the Royal Decree-Law, I would like to mention two other contingency measures of a normative nature. Firstly, the right to vote in municipal elections. As you know, the Council of Ministers of 18 January 2019 authorized the signing and provisional application of an agreement with the United Kingdom so that the respective nationals can exercise the rights of active and passive suffrage in the municipal elections of the other State. And secondly, aid to businesses. The Secretary of State for Trade, belonging to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, has empowered specific lines of aid to associations of exporters and companies affected by the Brexit. Logically, as it cannot be otherwise, we will be next to our farmers, our distributors and our entrepreneurs in this very complex transit. The second line of action to which he referred is that of the logistical nature, given the impact it would have on the needs of material and, above all, personal means, an outflow without agreement by turning the United Kingdom into a third State. With regard to personal media, I would like to say the following: the most relevant areas that require effort and reinforcement of personnel are cross-border control of persons, customs control, and external health inspection services, both for the import and export of goods. The Council of Ministers on Friday 8 February approved an agreement on measures in the field of public employment with a view to strengthening the services affected by the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Among other measures, the coverage of the needs arising from the Brexit is prioritized in relation to the public job vacancies of the year 2018, and a royal decree-law is approved which advances part of the public job offer for the year 2019, allowing the immediate coverage of the new places with interim staff until the procedures are resolved. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the forecast for staff reinforcement is 1735 new staff, of which 875 are public employees or jobs of the General Administration of the State. The remaining 860 personnel relate to the coverage of services provided by public enterprises, mainly AENA and State Ports. This is in terms of human resources needs. And as for the needs of material means the same logically affect fundamentally the ports and the airports, and their attention will be facilitated, where appropriate, by the provision in the royal decree-law that their recruitment be considered emergency. In spite of the advances that, after analysing the changes that will entail the departure from the United Kingdom without agreement, the responsible departments have not appreciated the need to carry out new large civil works, and it is considered that the storage infrastructures at ports and airports for customs purposes are suitable for this new situation. The Government's third area of action is communication to citizens, businesses and other economic and institutional actors. I summarize the main initiatives in this regard. The Brexit space on the La Moncloa website has been in operation since 14 January, and it centralises all information concerning the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This information is accessible to citizens and operators, both in English and Spanish. Detailed sectoral information is also included on the websites of the various ministerial departments. This on the one hand. Secondly, special business seminars have been set up, developed by the Secretariat of State for Trade with the cooperation of the European Commission itself. They report on the different scenarios and the need to take preparatory measures, and I inform you that since the end of 2018 seminars have been held in thirty-three cities in each of the autonomous communities. Therefore, web space for information and seminars specifically aimed at this issue in each and every Autonomous Community. I would also like to refer to two additional issues: the first, citizens' associations. The Spanish authorities have received, whenever requested, the associations of British citizens in Spain and Spanish residents in the United Kingdom, and maintain fluid contact with each and every one of these associations. The second is that of the autonomous, fundamental and important communities in this transit that we have to pass through. Contingency planning work is being shared with the autonomous communities - with each and every one of the autonomous governments - through the Conference on European Union-related Affairs, and the creation of a group of focal points. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, maximum institutional cooperation between the Spanish Government and the various levels of administration. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four weeks left to reach the date of 29 March, when, as you know, two years of the activation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union are being fulfilled, and although it is not impossible - as I have told you before - to extend the time limit laid down in that Article, some sources - the Government is working with certainties and not with speculation - offer a scenario with only two possibilities: the first is an orderly withdrawal, based on a meticulously negotiated agreement for long months, to which we have referred in various appearances before you and of which I have also made a brief summary in this intervention, and an abrupt withdrawal, without any agreement. These are the only two scenarios, and as I have explained to you the decision is not for the Government of Spain or the European Union, but for the British Government and Parliament. In any case, the Spaniards must know that, whatever the final scenario, we are prepared to face the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now turn to the following subject which is the subject of this hearing. When nine months ago we took on the task of government, we did so with the conviction that political life needed a deep regeneration, a change that would banish not only corruption, but also disaffection and public distrust of institutions. The crisis and its aftermath only accelerated an already pressing need in our democracy, which is that of regeneration, which is an outstanding subject in our country. That is why we were always clear that exemplaryness should always be at the heart of the Government's political project. Our standard of demand was much higher from the beginning than that which had prevailed until then, let us not say with regard to the null assumption of responsibilities of the previous Government, averted by scandals of corruption and affected by a worrisome paralysis to deal with them. We are proud of this, even though we are aware that this implies greater attention to each of our steps, and also to our previous experiences of entering politics. This introduction I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that all the members of the Government have my full confidence, because each and every one of the ministers and ministers meets those standards of exemplaryity which we have imposed as an unnegotiable list. [[Applauds]] This is what the citizens demanded, and this is what we assumed as our own, aware of the events that led to the motion of censure and of our duty to promote and lead this democratic regeneration. In the cases before us, I would like to make clear four points that guide this Government's action in this area. Firstly, all the ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain comply with their tax obligations. This has been accredited by the competent bodies to establish it, and is shown by all the tax and property documents that each of them has made public. Transparency is inseparable from regeneration and the return of trust. This Government exercises it not only because of the fulfilment of a duty, but also and above all because of conviction. Secondly, all the ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, use or have used legal figures in their management of income and wealth, without exception. Thirdly, these legal figures aim to manage the heritage and not to be enriched. And finally, when all three of these conditions were not met, we assumed our responsibility, regardless of the political moment and without personal considerations, without excuses and speedily. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that we are aware that the level of demand has changed, we must all take care of the political and historical moment that our society is experiencing, because corruption or non-exemplarity not only harms a particular administration or agency; corruption, the lack of response to it or the inadequate and inadequate response produces a haste that goes beyond, that carves the democratic building in its entirety, that undermines the most valuable of free societies, that is trust. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I should like to refer lastly to the situation in Venezuela. I am convinced that all the groups in this House share the same desire for Venezuela, and it is a peaceful coexistence that will enable them as a country to move forward in solving all the problems they have. And I am convinced that most of the groups in this House also share the diagnosis of the path that must be taken, which are free, democratic, transparent and with all guarantees; elections that decide without any doubt who should govern Venezuela. My Government, as it cannot be otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, is following with the utmost attention the evolution of events in Venezuela, and we stand firm in our position, a position that I have just anticipated: the defence to the extreme of democratic legitimacy and the holding of free elections with all guarantees as the only possible solution to the deep crisis in the country. Venezuela has been immersed in a very serious political, economic, social and humanitarian situation, as we are seeing, which has only deteriorated alarmingly in recent months. The presidential elections of 2018, in particular in May, were neither free nor fair nor credible, and therefore Nicolás Maduro lacks all democratic legitimacy. That is what Spain said, and that is what the European Union and much of the international community said. To the progressive limitation of fundamental rights and freedoms that the Venezuelan population has been suffering, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious deterioration in the country's institutional life, as well as the persecution of the opposition. Look, the economic and social situation in the country is dramatic - here are the images we are seeing - but I will give you some data that I think illustrate very well the gravity of the situation in Venezuela. According to the International Monetary Fund in 2018 Venezuela closed with an inflation of 1,370,000 %, and forecasts for 2019 are close to 10,000,000 % increase in inflation. Gross domestic product has fallen by 55 % over the past six years, and the International Monetary Fund estimates that 2018 will have fallen by 18 %. The imperishment, famine and destitution of essential medicines and products have led to poverty for millions of people, leading to an unprecedented migration exodus in the Latin American region. The United Nations estimates that 3.4 million Venezuelans have left the country fleeing this terrible situation. Let me stress this, almost 3 and a half million Venezuelans have marched from their homeland; some fleeing persecution, most fleeing from hunger, violence, corruption and the lack of freedoms and opportunities. This fact alone determines that the Maduro regime has failed dramatically, that no country can allow more than 10% of its population to emigrate or be exiled. Spain and the Government could not remain unfettered in this situation, we could not look elsewhere, and therefore the follow-up of the situation in Venezuela has been an absolute priority of our Government's foreign policy, for our commitment to human rights and also to the social and democratic rule of law, for our defence of democracy and for our special relationship with Latin America, with the Ibero-American Community of Nations and, in particular, with Venezuela, a country so close to which we share emotional, social and economic ties of extraordinary intensity. Moreover, the Government could not ignore the serious implications that the deterioration of the political, social and economic situation in Venezuela has for its neighbouring countries, as well as for the entire region. The Government is and has always been very aware of our great responsibility for the large Spanish colony that lives in Venezuela, more than 160,000 compatriots, whose well-being and security is our absolute priority and also logically the important presence of Spanish companies in Venezuela. This fact has always forced us and continues to force us - I mean, ladies and gentlemen - to prudence and wisdom in our manifestations and actions. The Government has acted with firmness and determination, convinced that only from democratic legitimacy, from respect for human, civil and political rights, and from deep respect for the will of Venezuelans and Venezuelans, expressed in free and guaranteed presidential elections, could the solution be found to the current situation. That is why in these nine months I would like to remind you that the Government has been taking a series of measures aimed at exponentially increasing international pressure on the Maduro regime, and at promoting a peaceful and democratic solution to the country's crisis. To mention a few milestones, on 25 June 2018 the Spanish Government supported the decision of the Foreign Affairs Council to add eleven new people to the list of sanctions, logically eleven people linked to the Maduro regime; and at the Foreign Affairs Council in November 2018 we support the decision to extend the sanctions package adopted in November 2017. On 27 September 2018, ladies and gentlemen, Spain was one of twenty-three countries that, with its favourable vote, made it possible for the UN Human Rights Council to adopt a historic resolution on Venezuela, condemning abuses and urging the Government of Caracas to accept humanitarian aid. The situation is serious and one fact is particularly revealing in this regard: in 2018 more than 20,000 Venezuelan citizens have applied for international protection in Spain. The Government has strengthened the competent administrative services to process asylum applications, and we are working to ensure that in the current legislative framework we can offer an alternative migration status to all Venezuelans who do not meet the requirements for refugee status. This Government shares the suffering of the hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans who have been forced to leave their country, and we want Spain to be a port of welcome and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the political, social, economic and humanitarian situation in Venezuela has placed the international community in the face of the need to respond with strong and determined support for democratic legitimacy, represented by the National Assembly and its President Juan Guaidó. The Government has acted with the utmost political determination and also with the greatest urgency, with the conviction that the only viable solution, the only legitimate solution, the only necessary solution is through the convening, as I have told you before, of democratic presidential elections with full guarantees in Venezuela. On January 10, Spain did not send any representatives to the inauguration ceremony of Nicolás Maduro, as did the rest of the European countries, because we never recognized, as I told you before, the legitimacy of the presidential elections held on May 20. Thus, in the course of a rapid evolution of events, and following the assumption of Juan Guaidó, President of the legitimate National Assembly, as Acting President of Venezuela on 23 January, the Government of Spain assumed its political responsibilities and maintained a clear leadership position in the European Union, followed and recognized by the majority of the Member States. The Government of Spain has always worked intensively with our community partners, in line with our knowledge of the situation and our sensitivity as a member of the Ibero-American Community. Spain has always considered that joint action by the European Union was an effective element of pressure consistent with the functioning of our common foreign policy, and at the same time the Government has considered that the lack of full European consultation, which is ultimately what has been achieved, could not be an obstacle for Spain and other Member States to take the positions they consider essential at this crucial juncture. With these two ideas, with the idea of joint action within the framework of the European Union, and secondly, that in the face of a lack of full European consultation there would be countries like ours to take their positions, always seeking to act effectively in the pressure for a peaceful and democratic solution in Venezuela, and wishing to attract those positions to the greatest number of community partners, it was when I made a last call to Nicolás Maduro to call presidential elections with all the guarantees within eight days. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the position of the Government has been clear at all times, at all times; we do not seek to put or remove governments or presidents in Venezuela, it is not for us, this is for the Venezuelan people; with our action, with our action, we want to promote the return to the full implementation of democratic procedures in Venezuela, that the people of Venezuela can choose their future, and with it the exit of this crisis through fair, free and transparent elections. [[Applauds]] We want the fate of Venezuela to arise peacefully from the free vote of its citizens. In this context, we meet as you know the eight-day deadline without calling for presidential elections by Nicolás Maduro, and the Government took a step forward, and fulfilling the commitment made in my statement of 26 January, on 4 February I again appeared to recognize Juan Guaidó officially as president-in-charge of Venezuela. Immediately after the announcement we made, and it is not by chance, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Portugal made such a recognition public. Many other Member States have followed; President Juan Guaidó has thanked us for our commitment to his democratic struggle and Spain's leadership within the European Union. The Government has also promoted - and I think it is important to stress this, ladies and gentlemen - a collective effort at the European level and at the United Nations level to assist and also to accompany in the process of the presidential elections, through the creation of an international contact group whose first meeting at ministerial level was held in Montevideo on 7 February, and which you know is composed of different members of the European Union, including Spain, and Latin American States. I would like to stress something important: that this contact group is in no way a mediation initiative, that stage has already passed; Nicolás Maduro has repeatedly demonstrated that he has no intention of dialogue, and has used successive mediation attempts as an instrument to gain time and to perpetuate himself in power. His consequent refusal to call presidential elections has been a tangible demonstration that Maduro does not want a sincere negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has lived up to what was expected of us in this very complex and difficult situation. We have acted at all times guided by our responsibility as committed members of the Ibero-American Community, and moved also by the conviction that multilateralism and concertation reinforce our actions in the international sphere to solve this crisis. Nothing that happens in Latin America is alien to us, and Venezuela can count on the Government of Spain because we will remain fully committed to the restoration of democracy in that country, and also to absolute respect for the human rights and freedoms of the Venezuelan people. That is why we deeply regret the acts of violence that have taken place in recent days on the borders between Venezuela and Colombia and Venezuela and Brazil regarding the attempt to bring humanitarian aid to Venezuelan territory. These days we have also had the opportunity - and I hope this is a position shared by all the parliamentary groups in this House - to express our rejection of any non-peaceful solution, and in particular of any foreign military intervention in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] There are some mistakes of the past that must not be committed again, history embarrasses us, and we do not want to be ashamed again, so we will continue to work in coordination with our European partners and with our Latin American partners to promote the immediate holding of elections as soon as possible, the only legitimate way out and able to offer a permanent solution that satisfies the aspirations of the people of Venezuela. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u4	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, this trip didn't require any saddlebags. You say this has been the legislature of the first times, and it's true. It is the first legislature in which after a motion of censure, lying in the reasons and lying in the object of it, there has been a government that has agreed with the enemies of Spain to remain in power. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The problem is that you did not submit a government programme, because you said that the motion of censure was practically instrumental in throwing out a government that had been supported by the ballot box twice two years earlier; you said that you were practically some of the issues that bring you here today to appear. Firstly, that it wanted to regenerate Spanish public life, that it wanted to recover the social agenda, that it wanted to return to the heart of international and European policies and also that it wanted to unite the Spaniards. Today something has said about that and even making use of those words of Adolfo Suárez saying that this House looked like what was already real on the street. And that Spain doesn't look like anything, your Spain, to what the Spaniards are claiming on the street, because the good Spaniards don't want a government of the Kingdom of Spain to be negotiating with those who want to destroy their nation; the Spaniards don't want us to join one country in another serious recession, and the Spaniards don't want Spain to become a problem for the rest of the world, because in the government that exemplaryness that you now preach has been proven to be false. And I start with that order. You were talking about regeneration, but a few days later you had to throw your minister Màxim Huerta, a few weeks ago Carmen Montón, and when you saw the scandal of the justice holder not only regarding Mr Llarena's defencelessness, but also his Machista and homophobic conversations, you realized that you had to start using your ministers as human shields. The same happened when the scandals were known when he lied in his spokesman's and Minister of Education's patrimonial file, which declared a patrimony that was twenty times smaller than the real one. [[Protests by the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Celaá Diéguez.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u6	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u7	The same happened when instrumental societies were discovered from his Minister of Science and Innovation, his Secretary of State for Sport and his Minister for Economics, and the same happened when he learned that his Minister for Foreign Affairs had received privileged information to get rid of shares of a bankrupt company, for the information given to him by the current Secretary of State for Energy. [[Applause.- Denials by the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] These are facts. But look, Mr Sánchez, that is not the sham that we have marked, you have marked it, in public statements in which you said that if any member of your party executive had any company to pay less taxes, he would immediately leave your executive. And you have here seven cases in your government, between ministers and secretaries of state, and not only have you not thrown them out, but above you intend to give us lessons of exemplaryness. Be consistent. [[Applauds]] It is also consistent when referring to alleged cases of other parties, when they also have the worst cases instructed on the Andalusian Junta, as is being demonstrated. The difference is that we in just four weeks, with a new government on the Andalusian Board, have already promoted a Commission against fraud and corruption to shed light on those cases that affect 500 former senior left-wing officials, and that can reach EUR 5 billion in defrauded funds. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Mr Sánchez, to speak of regeneration you have to apply it to yourself. To speak of exemplaryness you have to apply it to yourself. And what you cannot do is to come here dragged, to account in this Parliament for one of the reasons why you lied in the motion of censure, and above all to say that in your Government there are no cases that you, as leader of the opposition, were trying to attribute to the rest of the parties. Consistency and exemplaryness that you must have, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Secondly, you were talking about this being the legislature that was going to make up for seven years of severe social cuts. I have already told you in other speeches - also to the holder of the Treasury - that these data were false, that who inflicted more social cuts in this House in the year 2010 was his predecessor, Rodríguez Zapatero, and you were voting as a deputy: in the axe of 5% of the salaries of the officials; in the suppression of his extraordinary pay; in the freezing of public pensions; leaving one country with a 10% deficit, with 40 billion euros hidden, on the verge of the rescue, and in addition with the horrificness that Mr Rodríguez Zapatero made, saying that he would call elections for another to take over. And we take care of it, and we are proud to be able to say that we solved a crisis, that there was no bail out, that there was no ransom, that we did not lose sovereignty, but that we did not do it by attacking the middle class and the working class, which you always attack. I have to say that Mr Zapatero even said it: those who made the effort to alleviate the effects of the crisis now have to do it again. We did not, we revalue pensions; we had a record budget in scholarships, with 1.5 million reaching a million students. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u8	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u9	We also paid all the bills they left in the drawer. What we did was regain economic confidence in Spain. That's why the figures can't fool anyone: when you came to the government 7900 jobs were created in Spain every day, and you're going to leave the government with 6800 less social security affiliates every day. [[Protests by the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] Those are figures and the figures are absolutely undeniable. There are more figures that say, for example, that there is a slowdown in Spain, that one third of the foreign investment that came when we were here, that the industrial output rate has fallen by 2%, that the consumption of households has fallen by 37%, that the construction sector has fallen by 25% or that those issues that you probably care very little about have also fallen by 10%, which is that in the end the industry is also slowing down. In addition, in the sector, which is also crucial - at least for the People's Party - such as that of electricity competitiveness, today the two main suppliers are announcing that the light is going to rise by 10%, because you are carrying out this great reform that the People's Party has also done. Those are the figures that concern us. And international organisations are also concerned: the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission. So what I have to say to you, Mr Sánchez, is that now what you are trying to sell - also distorting Parliament, which is one of the issues that I was saying at the beginning, along with regeneration; that denaturalisation that you are threatening to come here with real decrees to try to adopt in eight days what you have not done in eight months - are many of the measures that we have left adopted. Because you say that you want to raise pensions; we have already agreed on them for two years: 3% of the minimum, 8% of the widowhood and 1.6% of the average. You say you want to raise the interprofessional minimum wage; we did it by 4% and 8% respectively in the last two years and we left it with employers and trade unions that rose in 2020 to 850 euros, not as you have done, putting the recruitment of young people especially at risk. We have already agreed on the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies - which, by the way, you have not yet spoken about - or we have already agreed on the salary increase of officials above 2%, or we have already agreed on the paternity permit increase, or we have already made provision for an increase in current account deliveries to the Autonomous Communities. So, what do you presume? What are you going to repeal the labour reform that created 3 million jobs when you left 3 700 000 unemployed? Do you assume that you want to repeal the educational reform with which we have dropped the drop-out and school failure by 8%? Do you assume that you want to throw down those competitiveness reforms that are an example for Europe as a whole? [[Applauds]] That's the concern we have, Mr. Sanchez. And since he likes to visit Azaña, I recommend you read it too. Azaña said that he was not worried about politicians who could not speak but those who did not know what they were talking about. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And the problem is that you don't know what you're talking about; you lie, you lie and you lie all the time. [[Applauds]] As much as you now pump the election campaign at the expense of - as I said yesterday - asking for a round and going out the back door without paying; as much as you make editorials or trying to say that we are the ones who lied - you see what they say today; as if you weren't stepping on Congress, they say you did step on it for the budget debate, but you didn't appear, two months without appearing in this Congress - we say what you did say, that it's a lie. He said that in a rally since Moncloa, attributing social policy, lying about what he has done in this legislature - he even put us in the face that we would not have voted for the repeal of our laws - and selling what he has not been able to do - less wrong than he has not. What worries us is that you can lead to a recession again in Spain. At a time when Social Security has a deficit of EUR 19 billion; at a time when we have 100 % of public debt - of which EUR 30 billion you have to pay in taxes -; at a time when we have to face a pension cost of EUR 150 billion, do you think it is normal to present a budgetary policy with your communist partners by raising taxes, by raising the deficit, by raising the debt to mortgage our children and grandchildren once again in an electoral campaign, as Zapatero did with the EUR 12 billion PlanE, but no longer even with sidewalks and posters, but directly with electoral measures that can neither pay nor approve in this House and that the Permanent Chamber, for the first time in history, is valid as an electoral debate? Hey! Go to a TV and we'll discuss it there, but don't use this House to do it! [[Applauds]] Therefore, there is neither regeneration nor social nor political policy for women. You say a lot about politics in women. Who has narrowed the wage gap in men's and women's salaries by 5%? The People's Party. Who has raised pensions to 15% for working mothers? The People's Party. Who has doubled the Ibex councillors in the legislature? The People's Party. Who has legislated maternity leave, paternity leave? Who has made a National Pact against Gender Violence? The People's Party. [[Applauds.-Protests]] No lessons! That's right, for the third time you come to talk about brexit. He said, "I'm going to make a royal omnibus decree." Man, like all the appearances you make. He ends up talking about Brexit. Today he cited two examples I gave him on October 31, 2018: the example of the Trojan horse and the example of the Churchill tiger. I told you that tiger wasn't going to become a vegetarian. You were trying to ride it - or that said in October -, you were trying to tame the independence tiger. I told him I was going to end up devouring him, and he's devoured him; that's why he's had to call elections. I told him Troy's horse was you, too. You are the Trojan horse of independence in the Government of Spain, and it has been shown because we have caught you negotiating with them and you were selling national sovereignty. So do not talk about the far right in Europe right now. The ultra-right in the UK is as perverse as the extreme left with which you are pacting, and with those radical independenceists with whom no party in Britain is pacting! What European party would deal with a secessionist party? [[Applauds]] Just give me one example in which the social democracy or liberal or Christian-democratic conservatives in Europe would agree with a minority party that has 8 and 6 seats of 350, which conditions the entire territorial and economic policy and the future of the Spaniards: none. Therefore, it is not a question of extreme right or extreme left. You know a lot about the extreme left, because the Socialist Party has been negotiating with the extreme communist left for decades - with the United Left, with Podemos and with whom to step forward, with such a way as to dance to the sound of music and not lose the blue chair; you have little left - but to come and give lessons here of moderation regarding the Brexit once again is a joke, and to come and say that it has been a beneficial agreement I sincerely believe it leads to ridicule. Are you talking about the German Foreign Minister, and the President of Lithuania, who was laughed at when she was asked if it had been a good deal, and the Chief Minister of Gibraltar, who was laughing at her Penion Parliament, and Mrs May, who said that she had not given up anything in the Gibraltar affair? But the problem is no longer that you have negotiated very badly or that you were visiting a dictator in Cuba while the situation of the Brexit in Europe was being resolved; the problem you have, Mr Sánchez, is that you lie; the problem is that you know that those agreements, those conclusions, that point 24 that we have approved the 27 members of the European Union was flawed, and what is not in the treaty is not law. Why is it that the British Parliament does not think that the political agreements with Ireland are good? Because they want me to be on the treaty. You already said it here clearly; if it hangs well and if not too. For us the situation of Brexit is very important, because it is so for the inhabitants of the Campo de Gibraltar, for the people of Algeciras, for the people of Cadiz, for the people of Andalusia and for all the Spaniards; because we had a negotiation that was historic, and because we had a proposal that was good for the three parties, for the two parties that legally count and for the Andalusian and Gibraltarian inhabitants: a shared sovereignty, a double passport, an investment plan, a special tax regime on both sides of the Strait, a withdrawal from the fence, a passport for us to compete in legal business, not in those that are currently outside the filters of tax avoidance, environmental policy or gambling policy as there is right now in Gibraltar. In addition, you say that the previous Government did not prepare the exit of the Brexit; I was being told by the former ministers and the former Secretary of State who have been meeting for three years every week to prepare the exit of the Brexit. It is you who come with a real omnibus decree failing to comply with what the Vice-President said to the spokesman: that you were going to dispatch it, that you were going to remember it, that you were going to inform us at all times, as any serious country does. You come here in time of discount and you bring a real omnibus decree that I fear will come with everything you want your communist members of Podemos to vote for you and that you want us to swallow, and you do so at the last minute, already in the face of the concern of the British residents in Spain, of the Spanish workers in Britain, of the possible voters to the municipalities and of the European countries themselves, who cannot understand how companies like Iberia or a Schengen area are waiting for a government to do their job instead of going to Cuba on vacation. [[Applauds]] International prestige: Venezuela. You tear your clothes with Mr Maduro; and why aren't you in the Lima Group? Does anyone understand that Spain is not with Colombia, Peru, Chile, Paraguay, Brazil, the United States, Canada and even France and Germany in the Lima Group? Why isn't Spain in the Lima Group? [[A Member: There, there.]] Maybe his communist partners in Podemos won't let him attack Mr. Maduro. Why did you wait twelve days to recognize Juan Guaidó? Why does your foreign minister, Mr Borrell - who now sends Europe to continue to deal with the independenceists - say that the trip of Esteban González Pons and the Spanish delegation was like those of Puigdemont? But how can it be said that some MEPs, who are going to support a humanitarian channel for a population that is starving and is repressed with bullets, are in tourism, as Mr Puigdemont, who is a fugitive from justice, does? You have no commitment to Venezuela; if you had it you would be there; if you had it you would not do this tour without any tin that took you through Bolivia and then Chile - where you told Piñera that there were no political prisoners in Venezuela - which then led you to visit Díaz-Canel and then, in the European Union, did not lead you to anything. You are not Germany and France; this is Spain, and Spain has to have a preferred position with Ibero-America that you have lost, because you do not know who your ally is, because there is no favorable wind for those who do not know where you are going. You have no international policy or domestic policy, and that is why Spain is going as it goes, without relevance since you are President of the Government. [[Applauds]] We are indeed committed to democracy in Venezuela. We are against the continued existence of hundreds of political prisoners in prisons, hundreds of tortures documented by the Organization of American States, thousands of arbitrary arrests, hundreds of murders on the street. This can't go on like this. I ask you to take a firm stand with the most developed nations in the world and to defend the Venezuelan community, which is saying that once and for all the Spanish left will stop having this complex when it comes to attacking dictatorships, as in this case it is Mr Maduro's. I also recommend that you read Mr Bolivar, when he said that if in a state, in a country, in a nation all powers depend on one person, it becomes a country of slaves. I don't want Venezuela to be a country of slaves. This is said by the founder himself, Simon Bolivar, who is misused by this 21st century socialism. Therefore, let us liberalize in this regard the freedoms in those countries which are annihilated, even though the dictatorships of the left have been so beneficial for their alliance with the Communists of Podemos. [[Applauds]] The last topic. You wanted to regain coexistence and dialogue with the Spaniards. Well, dialogue with us, Mr. Sánchez. I have one thing to say to you: I am very sorry that we have not been able to understand each other in this legislature. When we met in August, I reached out to him on two issues that had cost me very much internally, and they were practically a big coalition: budgetary policy - with the only requirement that he lower taxes, because we had increased the collection 22 billion euros - and apply Article 155, that is to say, apply the Constitution to preserve the law, coexistence and prosperity in Catalonia. You rejected it; you began to agree the budgets with the Communists of Podemos - we learned of the pact that of Moncloa by the press - and began to negotiate, at that bilateral summit that culminated in the ignominy of Pedralbes, with the independenceists - we learned by messages that we were seeing; issues such as the rapprochement of prisoners, such as those calls to pardons, such as those calls to the end of pre-trial detention -. That is the concern: you rejected the hand of the constitutionalists and decided to ally yourself with those who want to break the Constitution; you decided not to be with the majority of the Spaniards represented by a moderate and fundamental party in Spanish democracy, as is the People's Party, and you preferred to understand yourself with those who want to break the democratic history of Spain. It was his decision. So now do not give prescriptions or cards of moderation or chrispation; it is you who have sat down to talk with those who want to break our country. But this isn't going to work out for you. Right now what the Spaniards have to clarify in the ballot box is whether they validate their strategy of continuing to govern with the Batasuns, bringing prisoners closer; with the independenceists, without denying the impunity of a possible pardon if they are condemned, and with the communists, trying to pass through this House again budgets that would ruin the future of the Spaniards, or the alternative, they trust once again in a government of the People's Party that can enforce the law throughout Spain, that can restore prosperity, social services, economic growth, employment and freedoms in Spain. Mr Sánchez, you have already chosen, because you still do not deny what we ask you. The other day he was able to support a proposal to criminalize illegal referendums in the Penal Code; he was able to amend the law of pardons - which we proposed to amend in February, being in the Government - to prohibit pardons for those convicted of rebellion and sedition; he was able to say clearly that he does not want to decriminalize the insults to the Crown; he was able to say that he is in favour of applying the law of security so that the Mossos d'Esquadra do not receive illegal orders, or that the kale borroka is ended by applying the law of parties, or that the funding of political parties is changed so that those who have leaders prosecuted for rebellion or sedition, or that the Diplocat, or the council of the republic, or that something is done with the No-Do independentist of TV3, or that something is done with indoctrination in schools, or that people are stopped being beaten on the street because it removes ties, or that they stop attacking the cars or houses of the leaders of the opposition in Catalonia. You could have done something, but you have decided to do nothing, and that is why, Mr Sánchez, I believe that in the end you will receive the corrective that the Spaniards want to a policy of cession and sale of their own sovereignty. I think that you are validating the breakdown of sovereignty proposed by your independence partners, and what I have to say - and I tell you honestly, with the regret of someone who in eight months has been telling you what has happened - is that I wish you would leave with as much peace as rest you leave. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u10	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u11	They're playing war drums in the Caribbean. They want to convince us that the alleged illegitimacy of some is replaced by the illegitimacy of others. The phrase is by Pepe Mujica, former president of Uruguay, and it is a good summary of what we are experiencing: an operation planned by the United States to force a regime change in Venezuela. What is incomprehensible, Mr Sánchez, is that you have joined the Spanish Government in that operation. He may consider it a popular or profitable decision or suitable for the election campaign. That doesn't make him any less irresponsible. You knew from the outset that without negotiation or dialogue the Government of Guaidó could only be implemented through a military coup or foreign intervention. This is what Guaidó himself has requested since the first day and it is the explicit and declared road map of the United States. That was the objective of the alleged humanitarian aid operation this weekend, from which the Red Cross and the United Nations were demarcated for their obvious political purpose. The aim was not to alleviate the enormous suffering of the people of Venezuela, but to provoke an army uprising, which did not occur, and to justify armed intervention. What is the Government of Spain going to do, Mr Sánchez, when this announced threat is fulfilled? Are you going to support a military intervention to overthrow a government by force? So what's your road map? You mentioned the need for elections in Venezuela, but does anyone think that there can be free elections that do not result from the peaceful agreement between the two parties and have the support of international organizations, as Mexico and Uruguay ask? You have decided to do the opposite: unilaterally recognize a non-elected president in a country on the brink of civil war under the explicit military threat of the United States. It's a very serious mistake and a irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] In case it was little, you went to rallies and say that the left and Maduro have nothing to do with it. But what will the left have to do with this, Mr. Sanchez? As if defending international law and opposing an announced war meant defending Maduro; as if it were not true precisely the opposite, that supporting Trump's operation is explicitly endorsing the war. That is why Mr Casado and Mr Rivera should respond explicitly here today: will they support an illegal war in Venezuela? You, who every day call half the members of this House coups, humiliating Spanish democracy and the memory of those who made it possible, will support a military coup in Venezuela? Is that what you're asking? [[Applauds]] Here are the results of the wars to defend democracy and human rights in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria and Yemen, with weapons sold by our country to - as Mr Rivera said - respect the legal security of contracts. Mr. Rivera, look for pictures of what's going on in Yemen with Spanish weapons and your vote in favour. You want to defend human rights by the hand of a president who cages five-year-olds on the border; whose geopolitical vision of the region is a wall to keep the poor from passing; who has brought the United States out of the Climate Change Agreement, the Unesco and the peace agreement with Iran; who wants to withdraw the troops fighting the Islamic State; who has broken a four-decade consensus for peace in the Middle East; who has launched a trade war, whose stated goal is to break the European project and the multilateral order that we defend as the centre of our external action. To do so the Spanish right is normal; an umbilical cord connects the picture of the Azores with that of Columbus. That patriotic right, with such a high concept of Spain, considers that the maximum we can aspire to is to be a minor vassal of the United States. That you did it, Mr. Sanchez, it's not. Spain deserves a dignified, independent and democratic foreign policy based on international law and the defence of peace. Article 6 of the 1931 Constitution stated: 'Spain renounces war as an instrument of national policy'. Someday we will regain that constitutional commitment. [[Applauds]] It's not just a matter of principle. What is at stake, Mr Sánchez, is the role of Spain in the world, and that is not a question of image or electoral tactics, it is a question of state and requires another form of commitment and responsibility. It is equally serious, Mr Sánchez, that at one month in the Brexit millions of people still do not know what is going to happen to their lives. They get vague promises from the public authorities - the real decree of the Government, for example, of which we had nothing until today - but a promise is not the same as a guarantee, especially when we talk about fundamental rights. However, you know that Brexit is not Europe's problem; Brexit is the symptom of a much deeper crisis that makes values, principles and rights at stake that we believed no one would dare question again. Europe now walks between two abysses: on the one hand, a failed economic system, which has no horizon to propose to citizens; on the other, a racist ultra-right, which won the British referendum, governs Poland, Hungary and Italy, and on the whole continent, in Spain too, wants to present itself as an alternative. [[applause]] But all this isn't happening because it is. Ten years ago, the financial system imploded, undressing a mechanism that worked by inflating speculative bubbles to absorb resources from the economy and turn them into private profit. In a few months, $34 trillion evaporated, 40% of the world's wealth. Faced with the magnitude of the disaster, Sarkozy said that capitalism had to be refounded - he said in Davos - but in Brussels they decided it was better to rescue those who had sunk it. Troika policy will pass into history as a scandal: not only did they rescue the financial system as a whole with public money, but they allowed those same agents to continue working with speculative attacks on the debt of countries in difficulty, and when the benefits of these operations have been at risk they have been rescued again. It is so obscene that it is still difficult to believe today. [[Applauds]] In Greece, they crushed a democratically elected government and ended up leaving cashiers without money to impose the austerity plan decided by Germany; that plan has devalued wages by 20%, cut pensions 14 times and cost the country 30% of its GDP and eight years of uninterrupted recession. Did it at least help to reduce the debt? No, the debt has not stopped increasing, it is now at 180% of GDP and the country in debt until 2060. So, what's it been for? So that German banks have recovered their money and earned another €3 billion in the process. If the European Union has rescued someone in Greece it has been to the German bank. [[Applauds]] In Spain, we were imposed brutal cuts in public spending, a massive devaluation of wages and pensions, two labour reforms, the largest increase in indirect taxes in Europe. Public debt had risen from 37 per cent to 100 per cent in just two years. Was it, as they said, for unsustainable social spending, for what our health, education or pensions cost, or did it have something to do with the EUR 60 billion invested in lost funds to rescue the financial system? Since then the bank has won 100 billion more, but it does not return the money; that is, we were reformed by the Constitution to ensure at all risk the interests of that debt, the debt of the banks, which costs us today 31 billion euros a year, 85 million euros a day. [[Applauds]] This is European capitalism in the age of austerity: we rescue those who sank the system, we pay the bill and we shield them the benefits to make them untouchable. These are the results. Today in Europe 1% of the population concentrates on 32% of the wealth. There are 468 people with over $1 billion each. Meanwhile, 119 million people, 24% of the population, are at risk of poverty. While VAT was rising to 21% here, 300 multinational companies paid 1% of their profits as taxes through secret agreements with Luxembourg. Brussels questions every euro of social spending, but does nothing while hiding 15% of European GDP in tax havens. Finance, ladies and gentlemen, has kidnapped democracy in Europe and is using the institutions at its service to socialise its losses and privatize its profits. [[Applauds]] And if you think it's an exaggeration, explain to me what happened to the Supreme Court's mortgage rulings or article 135 of the Constitution. This is not the result of a storm. The dismantling of the welfare state, the social state that gave meaning and identity to Europe, is an intentional political operation that crystallizes in this article 135. The State must first guarantee the benefits of financial creditors and then, if it can, pay hospitals and pensions. It is the ideological corpus of Maastricht, Lisbon, of the budgetary treaties taken to the extreme. Prohibiting state intervention in the economy, protecting strategic sectors, public banking, a consistent industrial policy, an expansive fiscal policy, is tying the state with hands and feet, preventing it from protecting its people in order to serve the same market interests that sank the system. [[Applauds]] Behind the Brexit, behind the rise of the xenophobic and macho ultra-right is the crisis of a social model that has abandoned the defense of living conditions in Europe, and what a coincidence that supposed patriots never question the financial powers that are emptying democracy. That is why, Mr Sánchez, it is not just about defeating the ultra-right, including its Spanish branch; it is about building a horizon of certainty and security that responds to Europe's existential challenges. That is the important task. On the same day, this same month, 50 degrees in Australia and 50 degrees below zero in Chicago; in ten years the situation will have become irreversible. Water, air, agriculture, territory and cities, life itself is at stake. We have to transform our ways of producing, consuming and inhabiting the continent, and we have to do so now because we are running out of time. We need a green new deal, a new green social contract that defines a European welfare model for the 21st century, that eradicates poverty on the continent, that guarantees minimum incomes and public services for the whole population, that values all forms of unpaid work that women do today, that guarantees pensions, unemployment insurance, free higher education for all Europeans and Europeans; we need a sustainable welfare project, in short, that takes care of, protects and offers certainty to the peoples of Europe. This can only be done if we regain democratic control over everyone's economy and resources, which means very concrete things: we must end impunity for the financial powers that have to pay taxes and return the borrowed money; we must restructure the unpaid debts and address, as a priority of our democracies, the dismantling of tax havens and the great international tax fraud. [[applause]] Only that Europe that burys austerity and offers a project of peace within and outside our borders will be able to avert the threat of authoritarian nationalism and the violence that has always plagued it in the difficult times of its history. We are clear, but you, Mr Sánchez, are going to have to decide. Between his investment pact with Citizens, the abstention to govern the PP and the budget agreement with us is summed up the dilemma of European social democracy. Only two social democratic parties remain in Europe above 30%: the United Kingdom and Portugal. Those who have corrected the course of austerity have survived; those who have remained in the great coalition are devastated. By conviction, learning or survival you turned the helm in the motion of censure. With more or less correct, with all our mistakes, we have always pointed that way. It is a shame that you decided so late and that you needed a sentence approving what all of Spain knew, that the PP had co-opted the State as a criminal organization in order to corrupt it. That turn came too late, it has been too dubious and has been stifled by the noise of a right-wing woman unable to digest the loss of the State. [[Applauds]] In a country where 23% of the population lives on less than EUR 600 per month and 35% on less than 900, the rise in the minimum wage should not be an isolated flag, but only a first step towards improving the lives of millions of people. Mr. Married, Mr. Rivera, do you know what the enemy of job creation is in our country? It is not the minimum wage, it is three million hours extra not paid by employers every week, free work off-day, without pay. [[applause]] Do you know what the quality of employment threatens? It is not the 900 euros, it is that Spain is the country with the most temporary contracts in Europe. Do you know what the dignity of work threatens? The wage gap between men and women, unpaid scholarships, poor wages, exploitation, 652 deaths from accidents at work last year, 7500 in a decade, a national emergency that I never hear of. [[Applauds]] The problem, Mr Sánchez, is not what the right is saying; it is that you have not repealed the labour reforms that have caused all this precariousness; it is that you have not accompanied this rise with a coherent effort to transform our industrial and productive model. We proposed it with Navantia, with Alcoa, with La Naval, and they haven't given us an answer. The other day we saw in Madrid the shame of being forcibly taken out of their homes to families with young children because a real estate company had raised their rents by 300 %. The UN had called for that eviction to be stopped. The shame is that in Spain human rights are allowed to continue to be violated in the name of the private benefit of a few. [[Applauds]] I wish it were isolated cases. You set aside when the bank forced to change the Supreme Court's ruling, did not want to shield pensions, and went on scandalously to privatize the railway sector, giving 53 billion in public investments so that now the big companies will remain the profits. They have not dared to sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons under pressure from the United States, just as they continued with the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia and retain the Open Arms, while drowning people in the Mediterranean. Nor has the petitioned vote been revoked because they were waiting for the PP, who was never going to approve it because the people they have thrown out of the country do not vote for them. I could go on, but the important thing is not each of these disappointments, it is the direction, the overall political horizon to which Spain should be directed. The right-wing tripartite will bring to the next elections a very clear horizon, are the constitutionalists who defend Spain above all things except those that have to do with the rights of the Spanish and Spanish. The 60 billion of the bank? Well-gifted. The mortgage sentence? Well corrected. The minimum wage? Hardly up. They are so lovers of democracy that their proposal for Catalonia is to illegalize parties and apply a perpetual 155, suspend self-government, elections, the Constitution itself, if necessary. For how long? A year, ten, a hundred? Until the Catalans vote what you say. They are so believers in the separation of powers and parliamentarianism that, as they do not have a majority, they have extended the deadline for amendments to the laws in this Congress up to fifty times so that they could not be passed. [[Applauds]] So many state defenders who have a mobster on the payroll of the financial powers revealing for deliveries how they have perverted to the last corner of the institutions, and they will have to be held accountable for setting up a political police force to pursue their opponents. That, Mr Casado, is to attack Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] So Spanish - but so much - that in Spain there are those who come from outside; those who have another relationship; the women who decide on their body; the feminists who do not want to rape or kill them; the LGTBI collectives, unless they serve as a tool to cover up the Francoist flags, right, Mr Rivera? [[Applauds]] Those who want to recover the remains of their family members killed by the dictatorship - what a mania to dig up bones!-. The independenceists - of course, enemies of Spain - even two million. What are you going to do with them? Everyone to jail! Those who speak in their language and want their children to learn it, indoctrinate in the classrooms - they say - because the public school indoctrinates, but the Church, with everyone's money, does not. [[Applauds]] And the populists. With what courage, Mr Rivera, you continue to speak that word after your government pact in Andalusia. You should be ashamed of him. [[Applauds]] So Spanish that in their Spain they only fit and see it full of enemies, coups and totalitarians. Do you know, Mr. Rivera, who are totalitarian? Those who make lists of the names of those who defend the lives of women killed by being killed. [[Applauds]] And to Mr Abascal we tell him that Spain is better than his ideas, that the struggle of feminism is just and unstoppable and is going to make this country a better place, and that he is pointing out our names, the names of millions of men and women who are going to close the gap to the hatred and violence that he advocates and that you defend. [[Applauds]] Do you know, Mr. Married, who are the traitors, the felons and the enemies of the homeland? They are the ones who have used health, education, water, public works, even funeral homes and the pope's visit - already to be a bad Catholic - to plunder the State. This is the thematic index, but I have the alphabetical as well. With the a: Lawyers, Aquamed, Andratx, Arena, Auditorium... With the bee: Baltar, Barcenes, Baroque... I could go on until tomorrow because there are 247 court cases. The enemies of democracy, Mr Casado, are those who have plundered the state by stealing from us what is of all. You should start your patriotic herrings by asking the Spanish for forgiveness. [[Applauds]] Defeating that bloc is a democratic necessity, but the only way to do that is to open up a horizon of future and well-being for Spain is to face the country's real challenges. I've pointed out a few before. The ecological democracy and the great transformation it entails, because if we do not, there will be no Spain to defend. Economic democracy, because in a country with 617,000 households without income, where the rich live up to eleven years more than the poor, democracy is threatened. Political democracy, because what we are seeing in the trial of the independence leaders is a marked failure of a country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u12	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u13	The right that freezes it has no more project for Spain than the prison and the stick. We want a democratic Spain, proud of its diversity and its difference, ready to listen, to talk about everything and to solve the problems with the word, which is how the problems are solved in the 21st century. I hope - and I am addressing the Catalan parties in this House - that we will not regret the decisions taken in the future. A horizon of understanding and brotherhood among the peoples of Spain, the only acceptable and possible for a Democrat, is not built tomorrow, but now. In the last ten years, 935,000 people have left the country; in 2018 we had the lowest number of births since 1940; five hundred women have been murdered in eight years and every five hours one of them is raped. This is not the country we want. We want a Spain that cares for and protects its people, proud of what it is and its potential for the future. This Spain is not built only with gestures and images, it requires a courageous, coherent political project that knows which side it is on and to whom it defends. Three years ago we entered this House saying exactly this. Then many of you took your hands to your head fearing for parliamentary decorum. Today we are the group that has developed the most initiatives, with the PP Government and the PSOE Government. With all the mistakes that we have made, with the things that we have not done well or that we could have done better, every minute of our work here has been dedicated to defending the interest of those who do not have the telephone number of the judges of the Supreme, of the bank or of the great builders; to defending that viable, just, democratic country project, which does not leave anyone behind. [[applause]] Then we promised our charges that there would never be a country without its people again. We're keeping him stronger today, if that's all right. Politics must never be made against the people of this country again. There won't be any more. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Commu Pom-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u15	Good morning, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament and citizens who are following this debate. Today is the last debate in the House, and I think it concerns, for the purpose of the debate and because it is also the last debate in this failed legislature, to take stock of the legislature and the government that Mr Sánchez has occupied for nine months. Mr Sánchez, these nine months will certainly not pass into history for any social advancement, they will not pass into history for any economic advancement, they will not pass into history for any state reform; they will only pass into history for one thing: because you have blocked this country nine months and especially because you have crossed a red line that no one had ever crossed in history. Mr Ábalos said in a press conference - and I agreed with him that day, no longer - that a Spanish government could not rely on those who want to break Spain. You can't rule Spain with those who want to break Spain. That was not what I said, that was said by some socialists: that was said by Alfonso Guerra, that was said by Joan Mesquida - by the way, she is now with Citizens and not with the Socialist Party, precisely because of the betrayal you have committed -, that is said by some territorial barons who disagree with Mr Sánchez. But you particularly decided that it was worth being president for nine months in exchange for agreeing with those who want to break this country. That, Mr Sánchez, invalidates you, in my opinion, to receive the support of no constitutionalist party. If we are constitutionalists it is basically because we respect Article 1 of the Constitution and we also want to reach agreements and dialogue with those who want dialogue within the rules of play. Mr Sánchez, dialogue, always; assignment and claudication, never. [[Applauds]] The dialogue, Mr Sánchez, should have been practiced by you with those with whom we respect the rules of play, with whom we respect the Constitution, with whom we respect the laws, not with those who try to break the law. When you say you talk to Catalonia, you don't talk to Catalonia; you talk to parties that have tried to liquidate Spain, you talk to parties that do not accept the rules of the constitutional framework. I can come to terms with those who accept the rules of play. Citizens are the party of dialogue: we have reached agreements with the Socialist Party, with the People's Party, with both; we have drawn laws in this House such as the Law of Self-Government - consensual with many groups - such as the Law of Dignity Death - consensual with all groups. There is no party that knows what dialogue is as much as Citizens. But what happened? That you broke the bridges of dialogue with the constitutionalists and started a path nowhere with the separatists. Mr Sánchez, I got into politics in Catalonia twelve years ago precisely to prevent separatists from defining what has to be Spain and trying to liquidate Spain. [[Applauds]] Keeping up with the balance sheet, let's see what you've done in these nine months. Mr Sánchez's first major step: a decree to charge the public contest on Spanish Television. You, Mr Sánchez, decide to load a historic law that for the first time allows you to choose the direction of public radio and television for merit and capacity in a public contest, as the best democracies in the world do, and you come and put a single administrator by decree. Mr. Sánchez, there is no greater example of sectarianism and caradura than charging for a public contest and putting a director on Spanish Television on the face. [[Applauds]] Second example of sectarianism - because Sanchez means sectarianism: Mr Sánchez is sectarianism in person -, second great political achievement: to put a member of the executive of the PSOE to manipulate the public surveys of the CIS, that is his second great achievement of this legislature. Mr Tezanos has achieved in six months what had not been achieved in thirty years, the credibility of an important sociological public centre in this country. [[Applauds]] And look, I already announce to you, Mr Sánchez, that if the Spaniards give us their support in these elections - I want to leave here a public commitment in this rostrum -, if I am President of the Government, the President and the Spanish Broadcasting Directorate will be elected again, as the law says, by public contest. We will launch the public contest to choose a public television of all and not of the Socialist Party or the People's Party. I also announce what we will do if we govern, we will make whoever conducts the CIS public surveys be chosen for merit and ability; it cannot be that you put a member of your executive with the PSOE card in your mouth forty years ago and that it turns out that you invent and cook public surveys with money from everyone. And thirdly, we will not spend public money doing surveys for any party with money of all. Every party that pays for its polls or the media, but the Center for Sociological Research has to study the issues that matter to the Spaniards and not be the masterchef cuisine of Mr.Tezanos. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez's third major step: to remove all the directors and presidents of public enterprises who had put the PP to their finger and put them from the PSOE to their finger, starting with their chief of staff. You don't cut yourself, you put your chief of staff in front of Post Office, who from Post Office will know as I do of religion. Well, yeah, he puts him at the head of a public company. You put a public company in charge of a person who only has the merit of having been an organizational secretary of the PSOE. And he puts Mr. Lopez in charge of Paradores, who is an expert in hotel travel, because of course hotels know the same thing as I do, nothing. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, you have put colleagues, friends and acquaintances at the head of public companies, and we are committed to adopting an anti-fouling law, a law that for Paradores, Post Offices, CIS and public television are directed by people with merit and capacity. The movement is shown to be moving and if we govern this country, I pledge to stop choosing all those public positions by finger, as the PP and the PSOE have done. [[Applauds]] Fourth great achievement of the Socialist Party: Mr Sánchez took charge of the educational pact, Mr Sánchez ordered his deputies to rise from the table, for the first time in democracy, of the first possible educational pact of our democracy. When we had set up a Commission, when we had ended the dichotomy of reform and the counter-reformation of reds and blues, after eight failed educational laws that have led Spain to the worst school drop-out data in Europe, after all that, Mr Sánchez, after a year of work, when you leave the seat of your party - when they cast you, go, from your party - you order your deputies to stand up because there can be no consensus for the most important thing in a country, which is education. That's sectarianism, Mr. Sanchez, you're sectarianism. [[Applauds]] If I am President of the Government, I undertake to push forward this educational pact despite Mr Sánchez. I think there must be consensus to decide the most important thing in a country, which is the education of our children, the education of our professionals, the training from birth to end your working life; that is education in the knowledge economy, Mr Sánchez, not to fight with the Popular Party religion yes, religion no, education for citizenship, yes or no, etc. No, education is quality, education must be a social elevator and not an ideological battle between red and blue. That is my commitment, to end the two Spains in education and to have an education for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But moreover, Mr Sánchez - and this is true that he inherits it from the People's Party - there is a report from the High Inspection of the State that denounces and demonstrates the indoctrination in part of the schools of this country, shows how the nationalist parties, where they have ruled with you - by the way, as in the tripartite of Catalonia, when you gave education to the separatists - have indoctrinated; and I do not say so, says the High Inspection of the State in a report that demonstrates it. What did the People's Party do with that report? Keep it in a drawer. What did the Socialist Party do when it arrived? Put two keys on him. What do we want to do? Let that report come out and let the indoctrination end in the Spanish classrooms. [[Applauds]] I want to end indoctrination in Spanish classrooms. That is why my commitment is to develop article 27 of the Constitution at the specific point of the High Inspection of the State. You prevented a law that brought here Citizens this legislature so that there is a high inspection of the state, go, what all the serious countries of the world do. And let us end with a lie: education is not the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities; education has a basic part, a basic legislation by organic law, so there are educational laws, so there is the Ministry of Education - if not, Mrs Celaá would not be here - which has to defend the Constitution, compliance with the law, language decrees, that there is no indoctrination, that there are no separatist symbols in schools - as we have seen in Catalonia - that education is not used to manipulate but to educate and inform pupils. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, my commitment is to develop what you have not done and what the People's Party has not done in thirty years either: to develop the High Educational Inspectorate so that money and budget can be invested in it, so that there is not a single school in Spain that someone can think of using it to manipulate and to fulfil one fundamental thing: that Spanish, our common language, be, together with the co-official languages, a language to be used in all public and concerted schools in Spain. [[Applauds]] Has there been any progress in health with Mr. Sanchez? None. It is true that neither did the People's Party. Citizens proposed - he brought it to this House too - to ask the previous government and this also for an advance on a single health card. What has the Socialist Party done? Nothing. Why? Because you don't want to face your separatist partners. Mr Sánchez is well advised that a Spaniard is moving around the national territory and cannot be served without bureaucracy in any autonomous community, and I - unlike Mr Sánchez - find that wrong. I think that as a Spanish citizen I have to be cared for in any autonomous community without being asked for explanations, I want a unique health card with the same portfolio of services. If we are Spanish, it is, above all, to have the same rights, and that is what the Socialist Party has not done at this time. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, in order not to upset his separatist partners, and previously the People's Party, in order not to do so with other nationalist partners for so long, have preferred to fragment rights and remove rights from the Spanish. I want to recover that right to a single health card, the right to study Spanish in any school in Spain, the right of an official to work anywhere in Spain without being hindered. If we are Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, that is why, because Spain means equality, Spain means freedom of movement, Spain means Constitution and democracy. That is the Spain I believe in, that is the Spain that some have tried to dismantle and that is the Spain that you have allowed some to dismantle. That's why, Mr. Sánchez, you can't leave by the hand of those who want to liquidate your country because they end up dismantling your country, they end up liquidating rights in your country, they end up putting obstacles to citizens and businesses to work in your country. Justice. The great achievement of Spanish justice has come from the hand of Mr Sánchez, that is, with the help of Mr Casado, because in this we have to recognize that the People's Party and the PSOE are the same, we caught them with the ice cream cart. I do not think there is a more shameful image of what has happened in recent years in justice than seeing, on the one hand, how the judges who defend democracy paint their houses, how they threaten judges and prosecutors, and at the same time see how the People's Party and the Socialist Party send themselves wasaps and messages to distribute, remove and put judges, Mr Sánchez. That's what you've done with Spanish justice, that's right, by the hand of Mr. Casado. And I'm also committed to changing the system of judicial power because I don't want to choose judges, Mr. Sánchez, unlike you. Unlike you, Mr. Married, I do not aspire to elect judges, I aspire to judges elect judges, to a Council of the Judiciary representing the independence of the Judiciary. You know why? Among other things, in order not to have to explain it to Mr. Torra. Because the stronger our judges are, the more independence they have from political power, the stronger the Spanish democracy will be. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, in one of those announcements from the government of the stars that ended up starring - you have ended up pretty starring - said he was going to suppress the strangulations. In less than twenty-four hours, Mr. Sanchez's scam was seen again. He did not want to suppress the outbursts for causes of corruption, he wanted to suppress it just for everything other than corruption. Let's see, Mr. Sánchez, do you think that the Spaniards, when they want to suppress the outbursts, want to protect the corrupt? They do it on the contrary. What they want is that the crackdowns be suppressed in those cases that affect corruption. Therefore, in the opposite direction again, with your star ads ending up in a drawer, because you wanted to protect the corrupt and throw a smoke bomb trying to throw away with the ad - as always - then not to change the background of the matter. Well, since those outbursts have not been suppressed either, the suppression that Citizens have defended and that this House has voted in favour. Electoral system. Any progress? Yes, the People's Party and the PSOE continue to block a new electoral law in Spain after forty years. We have an obsolete law, a law without open lists. Can't we choose Spanish citizens in Congress on an open list? Why not? What are you afraid of? What exactly are you afraid, that the votes aren't worth the same and they're worse off? Because I wonder that after forty years we will have to adjust, modify and renew this law. So the PP and the PSOE agree on this. What else have you agreed on? To block the investigation of Mr. Sánchez's thesis while blocking Mr. Rajoy's appearance. In that you always agree. [[Applauds]] So, Mr Sánchez, I do not think regeneration is blocking the investigation of your alleged thesis and at the same time preventing Mr Rajoy from giving explanations in the Commission of the PP case. It is a little strange that Mr Rajoy does not appear in the PP case because Mr Sánchez does not want him to come. I do not know what you have agreed on from behind, I do not know if you are the judges again or some other type of rinse, but the Spaniards do not understand, at least this group, why you agree not to appear Rajoy and why you do not want that supposed doctoral thesis of Mr Sánchez to be investigated if so transparent and so wonderful is. Mr Sánchez, in short, in the area of regeneration, no progress, no economic progress, no progress. The last month of January was the worst since 2014 in unemployment data and there is no social progress either in the single health card or in the educational pact. What have they done in the work environment? What we can tell you. The spokesman for Podemos said how wonderful it is to raise wages by decree. I say one thing to you if it were so easy to raise wages by decree, it would be wonderful, provided the economy was the shaman economy or lie that you pose. Mr Maduro, your idol, just raised the minimum wage by 300% last November. Nice, isn't it? They're doing wonderfully well in Venezuela! It is a very progressive economic measure. Really, if it were that simple, don't you think anyone could raise their salary by decree? Do you know what's going on? According to the Banco de España, 160 000 people are going to go to the streets for a measure like that. [[Applauds]] That's what happens. So, I'm sorry, but the planned economy is not the solution, it's the market economy, it's competitiveness and it's that there are many companies. I know that you always attack the self-employed, the entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurs and I don't. I want this country to have many independents, many entrepreneurs and many entrepreneurs. You know why? Because with what these companies, those self-employed and those entrepreneurs pay, we can pay for health, education and roads. That is the difference between the obsolete economic model of Podemos and our 21st century liberal. We want people to start. Of course I do! Let's stop criminalizing those who play it, let's stop criminalizing those who hire someone else, please. Which country do you want to go to? [[Applauds]] As for that change you talked about in Andalusia, do you know that it will be approved this week in Andalusia? Unlike the employment council in Andalusia, where the PSOE of the EREs was stolen from the unemployed before, we now have a councilwoman, Mrs Blanco, who has just announced for the first time a flat rate of 24 months for the self-employed to pay only 60 euros. That's the orange change in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Some steal, the PSOE and United Left covering the EREs, and we make commission of investigation, audit and help with that first step to the Andalusian autonomous. That's Citizen's policy. [[Mr. Pradas Torres: What a shame!]] Yes, shame is what you have done stealing, it is shame, indeed, and you will see. [[Mrs. Ramón Utrabo: We didn't steal!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u16	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u17	Yeah. It's just that MPs at the PSOE increduce... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u18	Wait a minute, Mr. Rivera. Mr. Pradas. Mrs. Ramon. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u19	Mr Sánchez, I ask you a question: if there is a conviction by the EREs of Andalusia, will you resign with that bar you have put on? Are you going to resign if there's a conviction for everything you've allegedly stolen from the EREs in Andalusia? Yes or no? Answer us, because as you say it's regeneration, let's see if you commit before you go to the elections. If you are condemned in Andalusia for stealing from the Andalucian people, do you undertake to resign? Yes or no? [[Applauds]] In short, a negative balance sheet, a balance sheet that puts Spain in the hands of those who want to liquidate Spain, that puts Spain's economy in the hands of those who say 'I with Maduro'. I want to remind you that Mr. Cañamero wore a T-shirt the other day he was saying, 'I with Maduro'. Tremendous; a Spanish Member and a supporting parliamentary group. Maduro's fans are on that bench. I ask you one thing: seeing how medicine is burned, how food is burned, how one pulls from a tenth floor to an opponent and kills him, how can you wear T-shirts that put 'I with Maduro'? How can you do this as Spaniards and Democrats? I can't understand. [[Applauds]] But, of course, we now understand why Mr Sánchez does nothing about Venezuela, nor does he take Mr Maduro to the International Criminal Court, nor does he punish the Chavistas. Why don't you? Because those who keep him in power wear a T-shirt that says, 'I with Maduro'. That's the problem, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Well, look, me with Venezuela, me with the Venezuelan people, me with freedom, me with democracy, me with free elections, yes, but that allow a humanitarian channel. The international community cannot look elsewhere, while some unfortunate people burn food and medicine. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u20	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u21	It's all right with so much shame. How can you not be ashamed, gentlemen of Podemos, to wear t-shirts like that, when people starve, die and become self-souls burning drugs and food. Don't you have a heart? Can't you understand that these people are having a bad time? Can you really defend a dictatorship in a democratic chamber like this? Well, they'll always have us in front of them. I know you're Mr. Sanchez's partners, and that's why Sanchez does nothing. Mr. Zapatero blames Canada and the United States. I will make it clear: I do not know how much Mr Zapatero is paying for all this because I only think of that reason, because a former president of Spain cannot be saying that the Venezuelan exodus is the fault of democratic countries. [[Rumors]] It's Mr. Maduro's fault, Mr. Zapatero. [[Applauds]] With regard to Venezuela, neither the People's Party in the Government nor the Socialist Party has initiated punitive measures against the Chavista regime. If I am President of the Government, I pledge to do as Canada has done, to do as the United States has done, to do as Colombia and Argentina have begun to do. Sanctions must be imposed on Chavista leaders. Chavismo cannot be installed in the streets of Madrid by buying flats, bringing its financial assets of drug trafficking and crime. So we have to start putting chavismo sanctions in Spain, as Canada and the United States are doing. And I, if I am president, undertake to initiate actions against chavismo. [[Applauds]] Peru has done it - then we will see its president -, it has done it in Colombia Ivan Duque, a courageous president, and Argentina and other countries have also done it. The International Criminal Court has to investigate chavismo, it has to investigate people who kill opponents, it has to investigate those who burn drugs and food, it has to investigate those who do not respect the most basic laws, which are human rights. I, too, pledge to join the eight countries that are denouncing the International Criminal Court so that Spain, within Ibero-America, will lead the fight against crimes against humanity. I pledge to take Mr. Maduro to the International Criminal Court. [[Applauds]] Finally, with regard to Venezuela, Mr Sánchez, you cannot look elsewhere. Let us hope that there will be a change of government and that we will be able to do so by others, but I find it regrettable that Spain has become a profile, acting ambiguously and that it has not led that policy in the Ibero-American community. We are not only a European country, but also one of the most important, if not the most important, countries of the Ibero-American community. And I would like to tell the rest of the Ibero-American peoples that Spain is with them and not with dictators. So, Mr Sánchez, I think we have missed an opportunity, but I hope that the next government can change this. I want to make a final reflection on one of the spokespersons. Some have confused Spain's constitutional flag with Franco. You have a problem, because the flag of Spain is of all Spaniards, and Franco, I don't know if you know it, died in 1975. So this is a democracy and you have to accept it. [[Applauds]] When Mrs Lastra says that all those who display national symbols are fairies or when We can say that all national symbols are fairies or franchisors, they are wrong. [[Protests]] Don't get nervous. [[Major Perales: I do get nervous]] It gives you allergy, it gives you allergy Spain, the flag of Spain and the Constitution, I know. [[Major Perales: That's not true]] But not only does it not give us allergy, but we want to show it with normality and without anyone insulting us. And continue along that path, continue to insult all the Spaniards who are proud of their country, continue to insult those who manifest themselves with democratic symbols, continue to shut up to the constitutionalists and support the separatists, who have done very well. Follow this path, Mr de Podemos and Mr de PSOE, which has been very good for you in Andalusia and I think that if you continue along that path, it will also be fantastically good for you on 28 April. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u22	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, it is true that we do not live in the best of Europe now, I think it is obvious that the Europe we have dreamed of is still going to demand a lot of effort, the ultra-right has become the new ghost that runs through it - and it is no longer that ghost that we have denounced or announced many years ago -, it is the Europe of precariousness, it is the Europe that we are surprised that we had believed that by being European we would already have almost half a gifted life and not; or the Europe converted into a bunker, into a trench and where the coronation of forces, unfortunately, is not too favourable to those progressive political parties that were ultimately the ones that defeated Nazism and built Europe of progress and democracy. Even so, this Europe, which has many problems, was built with the noblest materials, which were the ones that emerged from the defeat of fascism. Noble materials, by contrast, I understand - of the nearly-destroyed materials with which Spanish democracy was built, unfortunately. The transition was nothing but a pact with the Francoists as well. We had the strength we had. In fact, for this reason, because those built a democracy with very noble materials - the defeat of Nazism - and we built it with not so noble materials, I now come here - you see - with the tongue out. I come from the Supreme Court, if we had built democracy with nobler materials it would not come from the Supreme, where there are innocent, democratic men and women, democratically elected by the people of Catalonia, who are being tried and, perhaps, even very long prison sentences will fall to them. I speak to you as an independent republican but as a European federalist as consistent as you. No more, but I'm sure you and I are just as federalists about Europe. A Europe that makes us suffer but that, also because it makes us suffer, commits us even more to its construction, which is why we were alarmed when British citizens questioned its accession to the European Union. We've all been alarmed. And yet the whole European Union even tried to generate exceptionalities at the time for the British to rethink it. I remember that famous debate about whether the London City had to have certain peculiarities in everything that pertains to the tax and financial regime. I remember that there was even a debate on the European left about whether we had to compromise little or much on the non-equalization of social rights between British and non-British citizens residing in Britain. That is to say, Europe did everything possible to seduce the British not to leave, which is logical because the meaning of the European Union is nothing other than to sum up and metabolise the European failures of the nineteenth and much of the twentieth century. I believe that what it does is to strengthen the European Union's original vocation and I also believe that intellectually we must assume that sometimes, in the face of the debate on the extent to which the European Union has to welcome non-State peoples - you know that there is a debate that lasts decades on where the Europe of peoples begins and where the Europe of States ends and where the Europe of States ends - there was also a certain reductionism on the part of those who said that any process of independence automatically led to the expulsion of the European Union, such a reductionist analysis as that of those independenceists who believed that proclaiming the republic would be in Europe after twelve hours. The reductionist was as much as the other, and I set as an example of all this the great efforts that have been made from Europe - at least from the progressive European parties - to seduce and convince the British. We agree with you that the interests and the safeguarding of the rights of the citizens of the Spanish State residing in Britain must be given priority. It will obviously count on our support in everything that is responsible for how not only the interests of our economic world are protected, but also all that is related to the ability to be more competitive in the globalized world. You know you can count on us to the extent that we are deeply European. Moreover - and without sounding like a petulant - Mr Sánchez, when there were many who raised their arms here, Catalanism was already European. Therefore, you know you can count on us. It's true that there are points we don't see the same way. We are by the reunification of the island of Ireland, of course, we are republicans and independenceists. You know that we have a great communion of interest in everything that belongs to the interests - in this case coincident with ours - of the Scottish nation. And you know that we are in favour of the right of self-determination of the plains, of the Gibraltarians. In fact, we always say that if Gibraltar wanted to be Spanish, the parliamentary majority in Gibraltar would be Spanish parties. I am not saying that this is not important, but you know perfectly well that you can count on us in everything that corresponds to the great problems that brexit raises. We also want to highlight what I think is important: Britain made a referendum. Was British citizenship wrong? I don't know, he exercised his rights democratically. We celebrate, of course, how and how the Labour Party is correcting the position, we celebrate it. What is more, I think we need to be possible, we need to rule out a hard Brexit because it is clear that what today may seem like a renunciation or a weakness, in essence, is an investment in order and effect to make possible, feasible and viable a European construction that overcomes this great crisis. It is true that every effort must be made to ensure that Brexit is not traumatic, negotiated and if possible from democracy. The British have given an example of this, they have called a referendum, but if British society itself is able to rethink it, it will have to do new victors and new songs to democracy. With regard to Venezuela, there are two issues I would like to raise. I remember in the press great photographs of the King of Spain with the Saudis, I remember photographs of Mr Rajoy and I'm not sure if Mr Bono too - I don't know exactly but important leaders - next to Obiang. Even Spanish democracy has made no difference, for the sake of the State, to greet, embrace and even coincide strategically - which would be more controversial - with dictators; dictators who have been systematically violating human rights for years and years. Both small genocidal dictatorships and Guinea are worth it, as are large states that, said popularly, cut the cod in this world that has already become so small. When I read an interview of the eldiario.es to Mr Felipe González in which he says that in the Republic of Chile, in the dictatorship of Pinochet, human rights were more respected than in the Chavista Venezuela - and eldiario.es does not seem to me a publication that makes demagoguey, I take it seriously - this seems to me to be a delusion. Moreover, I wonder, if for years Spanish democracy has gone around the world talking about the goodness of reconciliation that the Transition entailed, with 1 million dead in the Civil War - see how many hatreds and how many traumas existing - and with forty years of dictatorship, one of the bloodiest dictatorships of the twentieth century, and yet everyone satisfied, proud of Spanish reconciliation, what good is all this legacy? What good would all this contribute almost say of civilization, if it turns out that all this ends in the sinking of the statements of a person as iconic as Felipe González who then move to the level of his political party in what they have done regarding Venezuela? Wouldn't this legacy of reconciliation have been more appropriate, precisely because we knew how to reconcile ourselves after 1 million dead, we knew how to reconcile ourselves after a forty-year dictatorship, which was an absolutely bloody dictatorship with hundreds of thousands of executed? And now it turns out that, after forty years of feeling this pride - even some going around the world collecting a lot of money by giving lectures - when we have to bring our legacy to the world, we choose the easy way: to stand behind Mr. Trump. I don't think we deserve this, the generations who were born in democracy don't deserve it, because what message is being sent? Those who have suffered most and have been able to develop reconciliation, are we no longer obliged to send messages of intermediation, of commitment to peace, of understanding the conflict of the parties? It is a legitimate government, born in the polls, in a society in conflict, certainly, with great problems, certainly, but in the background, if we look in the mirror, what have we brought to Venezuela since the metabolized suffering? Only those who have metabolized suffering in terms of progress, peace and reconciliation are at their disposal, if they truly believe it, and are morally authorized to say: We, who have suffered, come to say here... And that we have suffered more than you, because I do not think that the current problem of Venezuela can be compared with a fascist dictatorship. This is only for Felipe González, only for him. I think this is important. The debate is thus as follows: how and how is sovereignty respected? We have no right to apply 155 to Venezuela and allow me to colloquialism. [[Applauds]] I repeat, this is getting behind Mr. Trump's back. Does Mr. Trump care about human rights? Let's be clear, is Mr. Trump concerned about human rights? I'm sure not. They want to overthrow governments, plunder natural resources, commercially block states to generate panic, misery, poverty and, in the background, to generate civil war. And once the popular classes, chavistas or not chavistas, fight and kill each other, Uncle Sam shows up, and he shows up loaded with gifts, humanitarian aid. And the people, who have suffered - even killed each other - perceive charity and pseudo-democracy as progress. I have the impression that the European Union, this Europe that we want better and in which we are involved, has not been able to articulate the appropriate mechanisms to mediate in a conflict that has greater international implications every day. There has been easy demagogy and everything has been too interested, threatening a democratic Government. In the background, we are legitimizing and paving the way for those who bet on war. What guarantees do we have that there is no war conflict? All in all, they're going to kill each other among the peasants, the poor. What guarantees do we have that there will be no invasion of forces that, of course, will not wear the U.S. uniform? They won't take him. They will already have an interest in doing so in another way. They'll already hire other poor people to do the dirty work. Like it or not, chavismo won the elections and has great support, which does not mean that it is not a society with immense, enormous problems. But precisely because it has them, we must help from our rostrum, the European rostrum, in which we are cults, rich, democratic and we are giving lessons. I believe that turning Venezuela into the axis of evil is right-wing; it is not right-wing. Despite the differences that you and we can have, we come from antifascism and understand that there are no decent lives if wealth is not better distributed, that no one is more than anyone and that we can only be viable as a society if we build our life projects on the basis of brotherhood between men and peoples. This isn't making us feel ridiculous and being rossian. This is scientific. Do not come to us saying that we are illusions and idealists and that the world is something else. No, the world will be what we want. So, what we honestly ask you to do is correct the shot. Possibly you have obligations, pressures and interests of which I do not even have a glimpse. It's possible, but we don't ask them to fix the world. We do not ask them to do what they cannot do, i.e. magic wand and that from tomorrow the process will be conducted in Venezuela. We're only asking you not to put yourselves in the rebuff of the reaction. I don't know if it's asking elm pears. Are we concerned about human rights in Venezuela? Of course, and for those of Arabia and those of so many other parts. But I believe that there is a gap as to the priority of this conflict. We do not start from a consensual position, because if you would like to agree the position of Venezuela with all the democrats of the Spanish State, with all the democratic forces of the Spanish State, you would also be obliged, and perhaps would accept it, to be so categorical in this renunciation of the progressive positions. There is geopolitics, there are global interests. What you've done with Mr. Guaidó is too easy. That's right, Mr. Sanchez, it's too easy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I hope you are benevolent to me and do not call my attention to the agenda and not to explain my electoral programme. Thank you very much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u26	Mr Esteban Bravo, before I give you the floor, I would like to say that it is the Presidency who administers the contents and the times. Thank you very much, Mr. Bravo. You don't need to answer me. [[Applauds]] I would ask you to start with the reason you brought us to the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u27	Do not be confused, Madam President, the irony was not against you or your attitude in the Bureau, which seemed perfectly correct to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u28	Appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u29	That's why. But don't get confused.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u30	Normally, I don't get confused. The speaker has the floor, Your Honor, to discuss the content that brings us to the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u31	I'll take care of that. On the first issue, Brexit, I would like to say that it is truly dramatic that in such a matter of such magnitude and significance to the citizens, of such importance, the conclusion is, after their intervention, that no one knows anything, neither the European Union nor each of the States nor the United Kingdom. I mean, nobody knows anything about how this is going to end: if the British Parliament is going to end up accepting, if there is going to be a postponement, if there is going to be a change. It is not exactly a great example for politics. If there is a postponement, which is what it seems, to which the Prime Minister has now opened herself, raising also some voice in Europe saying that she would contemplate it, how long are we talking about? and exactly for what? We have the European elections right there. It would seem logical that it would have to be the limit of these European elections, although others are talking about the constitution of Parliament itself, although this would make the situation very curious, because it might turn out that, in the end, the British would have to elect representatives when the number of British seats, of British representatives, of parliamentarians, had already been distributed among the rest of the states. Therefore, I think the time for truth is coming, but unfortunately here hardly anyone knows how it will end and what the consequences will be. We entered with contingency plans, to cover ourselves, of course. You have made announcements of contingency plans, but we honestly don't know the contents either. Today you have revealed something, but what I do have to demand and reproach the Government is that it was announced on a drum and platter that this was a very important issue for the country and, therefore, it was necessary to set up a Commission with representatives of all the political groups in this House - we were urged to appoint a representative - so that they could discuss with the Government what measures could be taken and then that the Government draw up a decree-law. That Commission was set up and met once, to be set up and for the Government to explain to them basically the only feasible way; legally it is that of the decree-law, these are the areas, four or five, which are the most sensitive for Spain, we would like to work on this, and point; there we are, because the next meeting has been convened for today. Of course, to tell the groups: what we have decided is this, this and this, and this is in the decree-law. So why have we done the Commission? Had it not been said that they were going to work with the groups, that they were going to argue, that they were going to send work materials? What have we set up the Commission for? Because since then there has been no news, nor has there been any public presentation of any contingency plan. Today you have announced some measures. I would not be able to appreciate them at this time, nor have I been able to take note of them all, and we will already comment on it, but we are sincerely surprised that, after having shown a will, this has not been fulfilled. Although I have to admit that the only thing that can be done by the Spanish State and the European Union is to protect itself and the ball remains on the UK flag. As for Venezuela, let this plenary be convened today to talk about this, when we are in a situation that has honestly not changed much - we are in a stand by -..., and if we asked what to do exactly, I think no one would know. I believe that, in fact, if we had the responsibility to make a real decision with practical consequences, no one in this House knows it and Maduro doesn't even know it, I believe; neither does the Venezuelan Government at the moment. I agree with you, Mr President, that the invasion is not acceptable, for several reasons. First, by ethics and aesthetics, but neither is Venezuela nor Granada nor Panama; we are talking about something else and another dimension. We are talking about a point, a place, which in geopolitics is very unstable. So, I think this would be bigger words. The invasion is not acceptable, but President Maduro's immobilism is not acceptable either; nor is it the arming of paramilitary groups by the Government. This makes no sense, and those who criticise the policy against the Maduro government, of course, should also say that this is unjustifiable. There is a certain fact, and it is that almost three million Venezuelans have left the country; and we have already seen people leaving the country for many years, for political repression and for the economic situation. And it is true - and you mentioned it too - that the largest number of applications for political asylum in Spain are from Venezuelans, and this indicates the situation. The inflationary disaster can't be denied by anyone. To what extent is this due to the blockade? In part, yes, but of course the blockade cannot be blamed on the connections of drug trafficking with the army, the social chaos that exists or the harmful management at the economic level - with an agriculture that was powerful at the time and that is completely devastated - or the very management that has been made of oil resources. That is also undeniable: it has been a disaster and the truth is that the situation is very complicated. I agree with Mr Tardà and his opinion when he says that the United States is now concerned about human rights in Venezuela. Now, I think we are concerned - all of us - and I think the European Union should be concerned. I believe that the policy being pursued from the European Union is the only one that is possible right now. It seems to me that the Venezuelan opposition - I am going to be very sincere - would not be right if it were the sole hand of the United States - I think it would not be right - and I do not think it would be right precisely because its word would lose much value within the country itself when, in my opinion, accessions must now also be won within the country, and the only possible solution is a political solution, a political solution. I think that voice was raised too late after the May elections; I think it was too late, that it should have been done at the time, but, well, it has been done now and a humanitarian exit must be found and pressure must be put on. There is a suggestion on the part of the United States to redouble the blockade. In this regard, President, I would like to ask you whether you believe that this is correct, because if the humanitarian situation is already hard enough - and we all say that we are concerned - doubling the blockade could perhaps lead to even greater suffering among the population. Therefore, when such proposals are made, it seems to me that they have to be seriously assessed and seen what all the edges are, but the only way out is the political solution, the political pressure and of course all going hand in hand. Certain accusations in the conduct of several ministers have also been raised as a reason for this appearance. I have no intention of entering into personal matters - I have no intention of entering into personal matters -, everyone will know with regard to legality and with regard to their own ethics, but that this is the recurring topic again and again in this House - today also these matters have come out -, combined with theses, masters, books and express university degrees, seems to me to be regrettable and I am not surprised by the disaffection of the citizenry towards politics, especially when those who make certain accusations have in those particular a dubious hindrance. The truth is, I've got the head of that'said the pan to the casket' thing. It is not presentable that this is one of the issues of question or ordinary debate in this House. I am not surprised that Basque society feels an absolute disaffection towards the policy that is being done in Spain. Spain has an ethical problem in this regard, but if the political forces are recognizable and rejoicing in it, it is even more serious. For my part, nothing more. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has shared the position of all European countries with regard to Venezuela, strongly convinced that it was necessary to open a process of political dialogue that would lead us to an election and allow democracy to be restored in that country. To the groups on the left, I simply want to remind you that we are in the same position as Portugal, Sweden and Canada and that we therefore do not have the perception of being away from the common sense of most advanced democracies in our environment. We share with the President of the Government a very simple idea: we reject any military intervention in connection with this conflict. The second consideration is in relation to brexit. For Europeanists like us Brexit has been bad news; it would be worse news an outing without agreement. Let us see what happens in the next few hours, days and weeks in the British Parliament. In any case, we will be alert to the need for the government to pass this real preventive decree to control the consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the Union. I believe that there is today a meeting of the working group of Members who follow this subject and we will be attentive to that discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, in this last debate in the legislature I would like to make some considerations. The first, Mr President, is that you chose to call elections in April. I could have done it this autumn: we would have had time to adopt relevant legislative reforms, without the haste and complications that it will entail taking them to the Permanent Chamber and in the form of real decrees. We are left with important laws, such as the law on combating lateness - fundamental for SMEs and self-employed people - or the law on gags, which should have been repealed. Therefore, Mr President, you have given priority to your electoral interest, you have not given priority to the general interest. I could have endured perfectly until this fall because for those laws - and you know it - there were majorities that would have made their approval possible. This legislature has been very marked by the Catalan agenda, by the Catalan question, by the Catalan lawsuit. The message of these years to the entire Spanish political system has been that there will be no political stability in Spain without resolving the Catalan question. Catalonia is too powerful and it has been shown during these years that it cannot be ruled by ignoring Catalonia nor can it be ruled against Catalonia. There may be absolute majorities that rule against the interests of the majorities that exist in Catalonia and that continues to generate political instability in the Spanish state. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia's conflict with state institutions goes beyond the conflict directly linked to the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling. It is a very profound conflict, very deep, very structural, that has to do basically with questions of recognition and power: with recognizing the national character of Catalonia, its status as a nation, its affirmation as a nation, and with a demand for power, political power to respond to the challenges of Catalan society according to the preferences that this society has. This demand for power and recognition explains from the end of the 19th century until now why regionalism, nationalism, federalism, sovereignism, independence and autonomy have been posing a political battle for power and recognition of Catalonia. There have been historical moments in the history of Spain in which a partial and satisfactory response has been given to these demands: in 1914, with the Commonwealth; in 1931, with the Republic and the Statute; in 1978, with democracy and the Statute. These historical moments have always ended up failing on the right: in 1936, in 1923, in 2010. They have always ended up failing by the right, because the Spanish right is extremely nationalist, loaded with an authoritarian tone, and is unable to imagine Spain in all its national, cultural and linguistic plurality. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a moderate right, a liberal right, which is willing to address this conflict from the political dialogue. Today it is not and is not expected, and there I would like to quote Michael Ignatieff, who says that for democracies to work, politicians must respect the difference between an enemy and an adversary; an adversary is someone you want to defeat, an enemy is someone you want to destroy. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about permanent 155, when you talk about illegalizing political parties and civil society organisations, when you talk about banning subsidies to the Democratic Party or Republican Left, you want to destroy us, you don't want to win us in the ballot box, you don't want to convince voters that your proposals are better, you want to destroy us, they are the highest expression of anti-politics and anti-democracy. And Mr President, the Spanish left was in the 1931 and 1978 agreements. He was, wasn't he? Yes, he was, and my group does not regret having voted for him in that motion of censure, but the Spanish left is contaminated or even forms part of his being, of that Jacobin and French look of the state that denies that plurality, and you again - and it has not been the first time that has passed in the Socialist Party - have been afraid of that right and have been afraid of those archaic conceptions that exist in your world and have not deepened the political dialogue, which in this legislature we have had the opportunity to consolidate. It was a shame, Mr President of the Government. In any case, we must remember once again - we have said this from this rostrum on many occasions - that the cause of Catalonia's freedom is the cause of democracy in Spain, that what explains what happened in the years 1914, 1931 and 1978 is that link by which there cannot be claimed to be democracy in Spain denying the right to freedom of Catalonia and the price that the Spanish State is paying for denying that freedom that is claimed by Catalonia is very high in terms of rights and freedoms, separation of powers, independence from the judiciary, and we are seeing it these days in the trial that is being held in the Supreme Court, in which it is evidenced - and yesterday the intervention of Jordi Cuixart has noted - the dignity of the cause that is defended by Catalonia and the absolute weakness of the legal arguments of the Attorney General's Office and the State's Advocate against Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, only political dialogue and willingness to agree can resolve the conflict. In 2010, with President Maragall, there was a hand in that dialogue. In April 2014, when Jordi Turull, today tried, Marta Rovira, today in exile, and Joan Herrera defended in this House a pact on a referendum, we again reached out. Before and after November 9, 2014, President Mas reached out, and before and after October 1, the Government of Catalonia, with Puigdemont and Junqueras, reached out. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia will persist in its affirmation as a nation, in its will to decide and in its appeal to dialogue and to agree. This legislature will not have served that purpose; we have no choice but to have the next one. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u34	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended on the occasion of the following parliamentary event on the occasion of the visit to the General Courts of Mr Martín Vizcarra, President of the Republic of Peru. The meeting will be resumed after the end of the event. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. The meeting resumed at 1 and 10 minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning Mr. Married began his speech by quoting Azaña, saying that he was not worried about politicians who can't talk, that he was worried about politicians who don't know what they're talking about. Mr. Married, I'm worried about the charlatan politicians, the shameless politicians. You said you don't want to finance the condemned parties. Shall we start with his game? Do we start with the People's Party, which is a party condemned for illegal financing? [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u37	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u38	That's what the National High Court says, not a gentleman of Compromise. [[Protests]] I'm worried about hypocritical politicians, politicians who are intentionally shortsighted and short-sighted. I am concerned about dishonest politicians, especially intellectually dishonest politicians. The other day the Senator of Compromís, Carles Mulet, was a minute saying the word: Catalonia. I will not do it with Venezuela but, as we say in Valencian: Ausades cau d'una matraca in Venezuela! You stink! Look, some of you reduce the geography of human rights, the defense of democracy or the humanitarian emergency to one country, Venezuela, and that gets a name: hypocrites. Mr. Rivera travelled in 2016 to Venezuela. Mr. Rivera, are you going to travel to Saudi Arabia to meet with the opposition and ask them to tell you why Jamal Kashoggi was torn apart? When you're done in Venezuela, you can go to China, and when you're done, you can go to Equatorial Guinea, the Arab Emirates, Yemen, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, Brunei, Thailand, North Korea. Look that you have countries to travel and you are only curious about one country, you just want to travel to one, and look that there are countries in the world where you would be greeted with open arms to defend humanitarian causes and to defend human rights. Anyway, yours has a name: you are Pharisees. We don't talk about human rights, we talk about oil, right? And the solution cannot be to become Mr Trump's acolytes. The solution goes through what former President Mujica said: a two-party agreement and elections with UN guarantees. The minute I have left, I want to talk about the Brexit. The Valencian economy is particularly sensitive to Brexit, especially in the agriculture, industry and tourism sectors. In addition, 75 000 British live in Valencian territory and we received almost 3 million British tourists. Exports to Britain and tourism are falling, exports have dropped by almost 20%. They think that agricultural exports represent 400 million, a heavily punished sector. Today we have seen that you will issue a decree-law this Friday in case there is an unagreed Brexit. I agree with the spokesman for the PNV, Mr Esteban, that it is a decree that is already made and it did not make much sense to go to those meetings. Because if you finally make the decree, don't ask and tell us... Anyway, it didn't make much sense. I'm done. I would like - and I told you last time - Mr Sánchez, with the same impetus that he has defended Gibraltar that at this time until the elections Mr Planas draws some decree to help the Valencian orange farmers who have lost so much. We look forward to this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u40	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, in your initial speech you described this legislature - the part you have presided over - as a first-time legislature and pointed out some examples and are not false, we could add some more. For example, that the Basque independenceist and sovereignist left supported for the first time a motion of censure to invest a president, in this case the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And we said it then and we say it now, Mr. Married, we did it for free, absolutely free, without a pact. For us to evict the authoritarian right, the right that wants to deny the existence of our nation and impoverish the popular classes is a duty, an obligation to our compatriots. But, even more, we also did it out of class solidarity, because you who love Spain so much tell us that in theory - and it is quite evident to you - we are the enemies of Spain who love Spain and at the same time denigrate the living conditions of their citizens. That is why we also support the motion of censure, out of class solidarity with all the Spanish and Spanish who suffer with their policies. But it has not only been a first-time legislature, there have also been worrying repetitive clichés. You will remember, decades ago the Spanish Socialist Workers Party said that of 'NATO, of entry, no' and the conclusion was that in the end it entered NATO. You ripped off saying that one is no and the conclusion was that they abstained and Mariano Rajoy was elected president of the government. There have therefore been worrying reoccurrences. That also translates into the political issues that bring us here today and any other, because you said that you were going to govern for the majority, for the citizens who are having it worse, for the weakest, and yet we have seen that instrumental societies were a tool for much of your government. That is something that surely no worker has to evade taxes. They said they were going to abolish the labour reform and the labour reform is still there, they said they were going to repeal the Lomce and the Law bites and late and bad but they are still there. The law bites that is only the evolutionary response of the law of kick at the door of Mr. Corcuera that I do not know if at this point he remains militant of the PSOE after his walks through Columbus. He also said that the General Budgets of the State were going to be the most social budgets of history and we offered him the possibility of adopting measures that would promote the dignity of people without the need to link him to something he did not even want to negotiate with us and us. But seeing the interior courtyard, you look out, look at the Brexit and look at Catalonia and when you talk about the Brexit you say that Gibraltar is a very important matter for the Spanish State. I think the Gibraltarians and the Gibraltarians are lucky, as they are not part of the Spanish state they will not prove the recipe that the Spanish state has for the things that really matter to them in terms of territorial unity, which is the stick and repression, as they live in Catalonia. But with Venezuela you come back with a speech that is dangerous because we are now being told that you are against military intervention but you knew - as the Member of Parliament of Podemos has well remembered - that this was implicit in the road map that you have continued to give authority to Mr Guaidó after his coup d'état. It is only up to me to conclude there that there are only two possibilities, either out of ignorance or out of bad faith. I am convinced that I am not going to find anyone on the benches of the Socialist Party who tells me that Mr Borrell is an ignorant man, then there is only the second possibility. I'll finish with a question. You have not been able to solve what is happening in Catalonia probably because those fears of no longer being subjects of imperialism, in this case from Trump to Venezuela, could matter to the Spanish state, and we would see that you are afraid of freedom, that you are afraid of sovereignty, and that is why you are repressing Catalonia or that is why Franco's mojama is still in the Valley of the Fallen and the torturer Billy the Child with medals. A lot of noise and a few nuts. This legislature ends now, but in the next legislature there will again be a wider, more powerful voice of independenceists and sovereignists of the nations that currently make up the Spanish state: Catalonia, Euskal Herria and Galicia. And there you'll have the disjunctive again, because these votes are going to be the key. And these votes are going to raise a very specific question for you: either it slows down the authoritarian drift that the Spanish state carries at this closure of the regime of 78 and it does so through plurinationality or we will continue to live uncertain times. [[Finish your euskera intervention]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Executive, ministers and ministers, Members of Parliament, very good morning. Mr Matute, spokesman for Euskal Herria Bildu, the only authoritarianism is that which you have defended and continue to defend today. It is impossible at this time, in just three minutes, to enter into the three matters on which you have come to appear, Mr President, but you are going to allow me to tell you uncritically that you have not been a good president for the interests of this country, and I will tell you why: because you forgot that you ruled with 84 Members and you forgot that the risks that the model of coexistence has in the 21st century in Europe are populism and nationalism, and you put them in your house. You've played with fire, and in the end, Mr. Sanchez, you've burned yourself. And I share with you the defence that you have made of parliamentaryism and therefore of the institutions. However, I would also like to confess that I believe, that I am sure that it was we and the political parties who did not live up to this Parliament and the previous one, because we have lost in recent years the social transforming power, which is the great policy. And as long as the political parties persist in their own right, the hooliganism and, of course, the paniaguism, we will never be able to lead the societies that are relentlessly advancing towards the society of the twenty-first century, such as the Spanish one. Looking to the future, honourable Members, Spanish society will never be sustainable, nor will it be a society of well-being and well-being as long as the sociopathies in political leadership continue. It will never be a sustainable Spanish society if the trap and the shortest path are disguised as corruption, and we will never do politics with capitals if principles and ethics do not put them, for the common good, on the table. Nothing more. It has been an honor to be a politician over the past seven years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Sánchez, last week, a few days after you announced - with television soflama included - the date for the dissolution of the cameras, you presented the pre-campaign of your party under the slogan 'Spain we want'. Today, on the line of this appearance, I transfer some of the features of Asturias that we do not want, in the case of the members of its Executive who are a lynx for tax advantageism with which they avoid their civic obligations, as well as the Government harassing thousands of families who lead their children to concerted educational institutions, to which it wants to apply, even retroactively, the tax maneuver. We also do not want a government that has done nothing with the secessionists, which is trying to please them with a system of autonomous financing to their extent, and with which they intend to collect their parliamentary support when necessary. Of course, we do not want the desertification that your Government is pursuing with an unthinkable energy policy, a preamble to labour and social ruin. The last Council of Ministers - interim - gave Asturias another colossal varapalo with the transmission to Brussels of the draft of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, with which a back account has already been set up that will minimize the possibility of modifying it by the next government out of the ballot box. How democratic to proceed, Mr Sánchez! The Alcoa crisis has highlighted its energy policy as a symptom of an evil that also affects thousands of jobs in the electro-intensive industry, and with workers immersed in the uncertainty of relocations, as well as those of thermal power plants, power generation and their auxiliaries, because of their express decarbonization, gold medal of radical ecology, but emblem of disaster and misfortune for the future of thousands of families and large regions. In that deserted Asturias, which we do not want, the socialist government has dragged us into being a railway ghetto, relegating us to a low-speed train instead of the AVE. Contingency plan for the brexit? Of course, of course, but for inner brexit, the Asturian, Mr Sánchez. Asturias suffers from the neglect of its Government, with the maritime line between El Musel and France suspended; the airport with the most expensive tickets of Spain and without international flights; it is the oldest community in Europe, and it is in terms of employment in which the annual memberships to Social Security grew the least. And all of this, Mr Sánchez, after squandering the 2018 general budgets, which you pledged to execute in this rostrum in the debate on the motion of censure. He broke his word, missed a whole year's financial year and much of 2019. If for Spain his term of presidency has been regrettable, for Asturias the legacy of his government is a calamity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands Coalition cannot otherwise be in complete agreement with the current position of the Government with regard to Venezuela. We believe that a foreign military intervention is nonsense, that Spain has to lead the international position of political pressure, but there live more than 100,000 compatriots, most of them canaries, that is a dustbin, and an innocent people cannot be waged a civil war. He has our full support in his current position. With regard to the Brexit Canarias has three concerns different from those of the State. First, in terms of air connections, regardless of connections with Britain, the Canary Islands - peninsula, and for us Iberia is fundamental. The export sector of tomatoes and cucumbers is fundamental, as you know. And 30% of the UK's 5 million is 30% of the Canary Islands' tourism. And now I'm gonna talk to him about something else. After this parliamentary term, I want to tell you - because yesterday I reviewed it - that we supported 95% of the projects, the proposals and the decrees in the compromise that Clavijo and I had with the spokesman. We have been loyal to the government in those things that have benefited this country and the Canary Islands. We haven't confronted. We have opposed those things that were not good for the Canary Islands, but 95% of its proposals have been supported by this political force. Two months ago the REF and the Canary Islands Statute were approved, which was negotiated for four years with Brussels, because they were state aid measures requiring a prior report from Brussels and the Council of State, because of remoteness and insularity, the degree of unemployment and the poverty rate that my community has. And suddenly, in the next two months, aid and compensation are eliminated in the first budgets. That is why we voted against. In addition, at the same time you approve one for the Balearic Islands - which seems very good to us to compensate for the insular fact, something else is state aid, which you will see how you resolve it with Brussels - at the same time the REF canario is charged and the Balearic Islands is approved. Ignorance? Political interest? Do you owe Mrs. Armengol? I don't know, but today I'm gonna shake his hand again. He has three councils of ministers left. The budgets are extended and have the Canary Islands. Approve the agreement on hydraulic works; transfer the amounts of aid to the agricultural sector; amend the transport decree so that SMEs can enter; sign in the Council of Ministers and approve the agreement on the use of educational and tourist infrastructures; pay the Supreme Court's judgment, the money that these gentlemen, the PP, did not pay on roads for four years. I'm done. We now need a President of the Government whose priority is to be President of all Spain, but also of the Canary Islands and to respect their interests. It has an extended budget and we need two or three councils of ministers and instructions to their ministries to transfer those policies that make the Canaries equal the rest of Spain. We have been loyal in this legislature, Mr Sánchez. We haven't confronted. We have opposed nothing more than that 5% that we did not vote with you on what was not good for my land. We demand no contempt and give you a new opportunity to recover the rights of my land. Be also the president of the canaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr President of the Government, in my natural innocence I came to attend a hearing on Brexit, Venezuela, and another matter that you will already discuss with each other another day, because I think it has little to do with the general interest, and I have met with a debate of a very interesting electoral nature. How innocent of me! Call me innocent if you want, but I'll bring you something. It turns out that the European Union has just apologized for the very serious mistakes it has made with the countries that suffered the worst during the so-called great recession, and for one ear it comes in and the other it comes out. There have been wrong policies that have impoverished the peoples and we have heard here again authentic catalogues in the same direction. So there seems to be bad times for lyric. As far as Brexit is concerned, the relationship between Europe and the Spanish State and the United Kingdom is clear, and its relevance is also clear; and the relationship between the Canary Islands and the United Kingdom I do not tell you, because the Canary Islands for centuries - but especially since the beginning of the 20th century - has had a fundamental economic relationship with the United Kingdom, and so it remains essentially in the field of exports. It also has it in the tourist field, as is well known. In addition, there is now a problem associated with a possible hard-core Brexit seriously related to a question of connectivity. If we are not clear that airlines like Iberia will be able to operate in the European area without any restrictions for the Canary Islands, the result would simply be incommunicado. Therefore, in the face of this dramatic situation, I believe that the Contingency Plan is very well - of course, we will support it; it would only be necessary for a contingency plan not to be made - but it must be involved. We know that there is a meeting today and it is true that there is a decree that is already approved. Maybe you'd have to think you'd have to listen more. In relation to Venezuela, it should be said that in the Canary Islands we called it the eighth island. Now we can no longer call it the eighth, because the eighth is La Graciosa, thanks to the new Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands, but Venezuela is very important for the Canary Islands, because there are a lot of canaries having a bad time there. There is an obvious crisis in Venezuela, very hard, a social fracture, an economic fracture and also a political fracture, but it is also true that absolutely terrifying sounds are beginning to be heard. We don't learn. There are again unacceptable war drums and military noises which, among others, are requesting the new president to whom he has supported himself, Mr Guaidó, who is actually a self-proclaimed president. Moreover, as there is a social drama, what we do are policies of economic sanctions to Venezuela, so that it is paid precisely by those who need it most. This is a bad policy. There is no other solution than that of Venezuelans themselves within their land deciding free democratic processes to elect their Government. External interference is absolutely unacceptable, and a mistake like this would be unforgivable after what has already happened in many previous international cases. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary is a perfect summary of what those nine months of Parliament have been like, Mr President. It is noise, noise from the opposition of the right of this House; anti-politics; only noise, not a single contribution. And it has been so since the first day of these last nine months. I will try to summarise the work of the right-wing opposition in four sections: the most absolute disregard for the state and its institutions; the lack of proposals by the opposition - they have brought no viable, feasible or settlement day-to-day citizens; the blockade on parliamentary activity, which has been a constant, up to fifty laws paralysed by the House Bureau, and the daily confrontation between citizens and territories. [[applause]] In short, the tradition of the right every time they pass to the opposition, because it has always done the same. [[The lady]] You have spoken very little about the issues that you have put as an excuse to question the President of the Government today, despite the relevance of some of them, and of which I do want to speak. They asked, for example, about the measures the Government intends to take in the contingency plan. The measures have already been detailed by the President of the Government. The most relevant is the royal decree announced by the President of the Government, which includes measures in the areas of residence, cross-border workers, access to professions and public service, social security, health care and education, as well as rules of administrative and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and other measures in the areas of financial services, customs, public sector contracts or licences; logistical preparation measures, such as the strengthening of human and material resources; and communication actions aimed at citizens and enterprises to ensure that they remain informed at all times of the steps taken by the Government to guarantee their rights. The novelty is that there is no novelty, because the President of the Government and the Vice-President had already explained this in a meeting with the parliamentary groups. It was therefore not intended to bring the President to talk about this; well, it was clear from the interventions of the opposition, in this case. We Socialists have always made it clear that citizens are at the centre of our political action, and that by guaranteeing the rights of citizens effectively and by putting our country in the right place this government has worked tirelessly, with its president at the head, from the very beginning. In addition to everything I said at first, of those four blocks that summarized this legislature, disloyalty has also been a constant in this legislature. The right of the House, in that spiral of noise and only noise, accused the Government even of giving in to this matter of Brexit just on the same day that it reached an agreement on Gibraltar, historical and beneficial to the interests of Spain, as all the European authorities have said, except Mr Rivera and Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] For everyone else it was a historic agreement. They asked in the second request to appear to the president for Venezuela. As the president has explained since the first minute the Spanish government has tried to lead and has led a common European policy for the recognition of Juan Guaidó as interim president, in charge of convening free, fair and democratic elections in Venezuela. Again on this issue, which must be and is no longer a matter of state, but a European one, the Government has found the disloyalty of an opposition which, if it is criticized, even criticises its own European partners, because Mr Sánchez, President of the Spanish Government, has done nothing different from Mr Macron or Mrs Merkel. Therefore, you too should agree with your European partners. The gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens have been doing domestic politics for a long time with the suffering of the Venezuelan people, and this time it has not been an exception either. His disloyalty with the State, so often known, has re-emphasized. Being European, being patriotic and being a Democrat means three things: accepting that the great challenges require prudent and coordinated solutions with our European partners; being on the side of your country's government on state issues like this, and working for the exit that most guarantees respect for democracy and human rights in Venezuela, leaving aside any partisan interest. I will not be the one to evaluate the three parameters I have just said, but at some point you will have to evaluate yourselves. We, as progressives, feel very far from any authoritarianism and alongside those who want a peaceful transition - as the President of the Government said - and deeply democratic in this brotherly country. On the other hand, they asked about the scandals of several ministers. I am still curious about what the first party in Spain's democratic history condemned for corruption considers scandalous. [[Applauds]] The party that received not only the condemnation of the courts, but that of the Spaniards in this House, approving the first motion of successful censorship of our democracy; or that you want to talk about instrumental societies, a party that had as minister of justice, by the way, the reprobated prime minister of democracy, Mr Rafael Catalá, who created one of those societies precisely to pay less taxes; supported, of course, by the party that has as spokesman in the City Hall of Madrid to Mrs Begoña Villacis, that besides negotiating with VOX to join their lists... - is that they are the same; it is that they are three right; come on, it is that they are one right in three, is that they are the same -... hid a heritage society for three years. [[applause]] He said I'm curious to talk about this, and the answer I give is that maybe they don't want to, they don't want to talk about all this. [[Protests by Mr. Rivera Díaz]] Mr Rivera, I repeat that I always listen to you carefully; so please don't interrupt me. He said that they may not want to talk about these data and societies, but continue to embarrass politics and try to stain through lies and half-truths - which are usually worse than lies - the trajectories of prestigious professionals who took a step to the front to provide a service to their country, by the hand of a socialist president, which is what bothers them; that professionals of recognized prestige, patriots take a step to the front, assume their responsibility precisely as patriots, and do so by the hand of a socialist president. [[Applauds]] To us, a clean government, which has self-imposed levels of demand as no other government had ever done, will not teach us lessons of patriotism, because ours is a government of patriots. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u52	If you want to talk about investigated societies, let's talk about Paquí Pallá, S.L., who was financing the electoral campaigns of the PP of Aguirre, who sponsored Mr. Casado and placed Mr. Abascal in organizations that he himself calls chiringuitos; that's right, now. [[Rumors]] I think you should come here and talk about that, about elections and election campaigns, and say it openly. We don't have a problem doing that. You wanted a date for the general election. They already have it, they already have it; general elections that asked with small mouths and tight fists so that the president did not call the elections, because against the PSOE they lived better. Gentlemen, it'll be April 28th. What I'm not clear about, when I hear you talking in various media, is if you've heard well about the year. Because look, I've heard Mr. Casado promise in a meeting technological advances that already exist. But more serious was that the other day I heard Mr. Married say that April 28 is chosen between the popular front or the People's Party. Mr. Married, we're not in 1936, we're in 2019! [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Look, this very week I was listening to an interview in which you, Mr. Married, were lying. It is a torrent of lies that will pass to the annals of the political history of this country. I was lying with impunity about the terms of what you call the new Abortion Act; a new Abortion Act that has been in force for nine years; and you are trying to bring back the women of this country to 1985. But look, it's just that right here in this rostrum, I'm putting unemployment data on sulfide. And I have to tell you that according to the latest labour force survey, the last quarter has been the most successful in the last decade. Stop lying! [[Applauds]] But it also said that the Spanish economy was at risk, when the Spanish economy is the fastest growing one in the European Union; it is above the rest of the European Union! But I have also heard you say that the People's Party passed the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence. But I have also heard you say that you have taken forward the State Pact against Gender Violence. Your Honor, it was the Socialist Party that carried forward the state pact, which put it on the table. [[Protests]] In 2014 this House was debated, the People's Party voted against, and only when they lost the absolute majority and dragged away by all the other parliamentary groups were they forced to take it forward, so please stop lying. [[Applauds]] But he's also coming out here talking about a pay gap when they voted against legislation to end the pay gap. But it is also - and I continue - that they talk about the equalization of paternity and maternity leave when they vetoed that initiative. And I could spend the whole morning like this, but the truth is, I don't have time, because it's 20 minutes and it would take six hours. In his competition to avoid the bleeding of votes that go to their right there is no puddle that does not piss Mr. Married. He said about abortion: I think it's good for women to know what they're carrying inside. [[Laughs.-Protests]] Look, Mr. Married, the women know for a fact what we always carry inside - always -, each and every one of us, and that frivolity, that paternalism and that condescension no longer carries them from within, but from outside; they have remained in the sight of all. [[applause]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen of the right, is not only that it is difficult for you to recognize yourself as feminists, but that you are continually lacking in respect for women. [[Protests]] In front of the nostalgics of the past...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u54	Faced with the nostalgics of the past and those who use the struggle of the different collectives to whiten and cover other flags, this party does not intend to take a step back in the defense of women nor a step back in the defense of the LGTB collective. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u56	They can tell their extra-parliamentary partner: they will never find us in the hands of those who want to take away our rights, they will always have us in front of them, and of course what we will do is condemn again and again those who want to make black lists of workers who do what they do is defend the women of this country. [[Applauds]] And then there is the territorial agenda that shares the entire right, the right of Columbus, with a star proposal: the application of article 155 in Catalonia in a perpetual way and without the justification required by the Spanish Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you exploit the territorial conflict for your own benefit. They are born and raised from the conflict, but they are now being fed back with independence, they are the two sides of the same coin, but they do not have a single proposal to solve the problem of coexistence that exists in Catalonia; nor one. Since winning the elections there, the work of his parliamentary group can be summarized in two photographs: one, removing yellow ties, and the other, in Waterloo in front of Puigdemont's house. What a contribution to Spanish policy; what a contribution to Spanish policy: a giant banner on a trip that cost EUR 15 000 to give Mr Puigdemont a media focus. You'll know what you're doing, but you don't do Spanish democracy any favors with fanfare like this. Someone should tell you - all the groups have already told you and I will also tell you - that please try not to make a fool of yourself when you speak in this case of Spain, and you go to Waterloo to take a picture in front of Puigdemont's house - on which the media was no longer focused - and to internationalize the conflict, which is what independence has always wanted. Hence Elsa Artadi's thanks, because it is not that this spokesman says it, but that Elsa Artadi herself said it. The independenceists have created a problem of coexistence between Catalans, but you not only fuel that conflict - because it is the oxygen of which you breathe - but also want to face different territories of Spain. They have become those militants of the People's Party of 'the worse, the better'. So much so that you, in the hands of the People's Party, but also of the Republican Left and the PDECAT, decided to overthrow the more social budgets of democracy so that you could continue to fuel - one or the other - a territorial conflict that in no way seeks to solve. Citizens have grown so old in four years that they seem to have passed forty, I really tell you. What has happened to that political project with which you presented yourself, Mr Rivera, which has gone from the centre of the left to the ultra-right, from the liberal to the veto of social democracy, from the Europeanist to the break-up of the common foreign policy? Your sad attempt to expel those who do not think like you from constitutionalism shows that not only are you not prepared to rule Spain now, but you will never be, because our Constitution is generous, we all enter our Constitution, our Constitution is not right-wing, Mr. Rivera... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u58	...our Constitution is of the whole parliamentary arc, without exclusion. [[Applauds]] That is why I am now addressing the Spaniards who are listening to us, those Spanish progressives, but also that moderate, sensible, prudent Spain, which knows that on April 28th... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u60	... we face crucial elections for our country. In these elections, despite the noise and more noise and only noise from the right, the unity of Spain is not in any danger, none. Do you know what's in danger? The rights and freedoms of women in this country, of homosexuals in this country. That's in danger. [[Applauds]] What is at risk are, as in many other countries in our environment, the rights and freedoms in a democracy of the twenty-first century, those rights and freedoms that we have conquered together for decades. In front there are three matches with many acronyms, but with the same objective, which is no other than involution. His drift is the chronicle of an announced failure. They have devoted themselves to systematic lies and noise, and the result of April 28 will be the reflection of an opposition that for eight months has been won at once the bad result that will result in the elections. Surely, they have tried to turn this last debate into a more government-weary operation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u62	... but believe me when I tell you that you have only managed to put yourself once again in evidence, because when you attack the people who make up this government you show that you have no arguments to attack your policies, that is the reality, neither in the economy - which is growing - nor in science - which is advancing - nor in justice - which every day demonstrates your independence. When they bring the debate on Brexit to this House they remind us all that putting the flags before reason only leads to disaster, either in London or in Colón, and when anxiety leads them to use the drama of the Venezuelan people for the election campaign of the Spanish people, they end up lacking respect for the two, the Venezuelan people and the Spanish people. I will therefore ask you to stop putting yourself in evidence and, even if it is only in this last part-session, to make serious policy. Here, in this house, propose something useful, for a change, and on the outside do you the favor of putting yourself behind the government of your country, as this party always did, because that is the decent thing and that is what the Socialist Party always did when it was in opposition. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Ja!]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u64	But those who stop us on the street, and I'm concluding, Madam President... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u66	...to tell this party... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u68	..., for example, that thanks for the dialogue, because they are tired of confrontation and chrispation, will go to the polls. The social majority, who wants a country of coexistence, will silence those who only lie and make noise. He wrote Antonio Machado, to whom a Spanish government first honored in his tomb last Sunday: 'In Spain the best is the people. It's always been the same. In the harsh trenches, the lords invoke the homeland and sell it; the people do not even name it, but the purchase with their blood...' Do not doubt that on April 28 that social majority will speak to defend a diverse homeland, where we all fit, and their voice will be heard above the noise. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u69	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for the speeches. I wanted to start with a general reflection. I understand that when we are practically in the pre-election period - this is the last plenary session of the Congress of Deputies of this legislature - one goes up to this rostrum and makes more electoralist interventions, in which little less than the agenda is not respected or the issue for which the Government, in this case the Presidency of the Government, has been called upon to appear. But one thing is that, which logically enters into the reasonable, and another question is what we have seen this morning, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about democratic regeneration, for example, what we have to talk about is also a public ethics that starts with oneself, and the public ethics that starts with oneself is to respect all the Members who are in front of the speakers and, above all, the Spanish public opinion. If the President of the Government has been called upon to appear to speak about Brexit, Venezuela and other issues related to ministers, man, at least those proposing groups, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, respect the agenda and do not talk about what they want. [[Applauds]] Public ethics begins with oneself, starts by understanding and studying the issues, talking about issues that matter to citizens, such as Brexit, such as the crisis in Venezuela, talking about the issues on which members of the Government and in this case my person are called to appear. Mr Casado, of the more than thirty minutes he has been speaking this morning, has devoted five minutes to Venezuela and to the crisis of the Brexit; with this, you are proving to have no respect whatsoever for what happens in the Brexit neither for the citizens nor, of course, for what happens in Venezuela. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u72	And I say the same thing to Mr. Rivera. Mr Rivera, you have not spoken anything, nothing about Brexit; it will be because you do not know it, nor are you interested. Of course, what you have shown in your speech, Mr Rivera, is not only to have an absolute lack of knowledge, but something more serious, Mr Rivera, that you care about the Brexit, Venezuela, and that for what you have called the Presidency of the Government to appear. [[Applauds]] That is democratic regeneration; democratic regeneration is respect for Parliament, ladies and gentlemen; democratic regeneration begins by yourself, by studying the issues, by coming here and, at least, by criticising the Spanish Government for those issues on which you legitimately consider us wrong, but not by coming here to drop a rally and to disrespect the ladies and gentlemen. That's it! [[Rumors.-Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, when I said in my first speech that I was making a demand for parliamentarianism, I was referring to this, to useful parliamentarianism, to having an important conversation about what the consequences of Brexit are for citizens and for our businesses, to talking to everyone to see how we can respond in the best possible way, in the most effective way and in the most inclusive way to a challenge that is unknown, ladies and gentlemen, as is the way out of nothing more and nothing less than the United Kingdom of the European Union. And that debate that this plenary of Congress deserves, that we have had on more than one occasion, you have sent it out with I don't know what insults, with I don't know what lies and with I don't know what other disrespects to the ladies and gentlemen we are here. [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u75	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u76	You two, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera and Mr Casado, Mr Casado and Mr Rivera, have reduced politics and their political project to lies and insults, to lies and insults, yes. [[Rumors]] Mr Casado and Mr Rivera constantly insult when they come up to the rostrum; they insult the prestige of personalities who occupy public institutions, he insults Mr Casado even women. [[Protests.-Several Members: No!-Mr. Tarno Blanco: Calm down, calm down. Don't worry about it.]] Yes, Mr. Married, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u78	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Married, abusers are not people who misbehave with women. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They make hyperbolic opposition, extravagant, exaggerated. You have no arguments. All they do is make noise and use half-truths to try to support their opposition work. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u79	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u80	Look, Mr Rivera, Mr Casado, the best summary, the best synthesis of what is the position of the Government of Spain with regard to Venezuela has been done by the President of Peru before in his speech, who underlined the coincidence... [[rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u81	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u82	... of the Government of Peru and the Government of Spain in the crisis in Venezuela. [[Rumors.-Several Members: No!]] That is what he has said, and he has pointed out as the horizon the call for elections in Venezuela, precisely free, transparent elections, with the maximum guarantees, sponsored and controlled by the international community, which is what the European Union is defending thanks to the work and leadership of the Government of Spain. You should at least recognize this. I understand that you are opposing the Government of Spain, but I say to you again: do not oppose the State. Foreign policy is a State policy and the Government of Spain has been on the side of human rights and freedoms with the Ibero-American community. [[Applauds]] But if I don't tell you, the opposition in Venezuela is saying it, all the rulers of the Lima Group are saying it. Mr. Married, by the way, stop lying. Spain belongs as an observer to the Lima Group and Germany and France also belong as observers to the Lima Group. So, if you want to criticize anything, at least be informed, read, study, be more humble, Mr. Married. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Make state opposition, ladies and gentlemen, don't make opposition... [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u83	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u84	Don't make opposition like you do. You are opposed even when the government is right, and you are opposed to it, as is the case with Venezuela or Brexit. But, finally, this is the opposition we have had during these nine months. [[Rumors]] Again, ladies and gentlemen, you do not worry, you do not mind how the Socialist Party governs, what worries you and you is that the Socialist Party governs. This is quite different. Mr Rivera, you used to blame the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the flag. Look, the flag of Spain, the Constitution of Spain are a flag and a Constitution of each and every one of the deputies that we are here, of each and every one of us. [[Applauds]] You have an exclusive vision of democracy. Only those who think like you are democrats to you. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has been serving this country for one hundred and forty years, forty years of democracy serving this country; there are many struggles, with achievements in rights and freedoms that belong precisely to the social acquis as a result of the leadership of the Socialist Party, and the other day you go and dispatch yourself saying: to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Socialist Party and, of course, to me, to the health cord. Now, that's right, you join with those to whitewash the blacklists they want to make workers who fight gender violence. [[Applauds]] Democratic regeneration, ladies and gentlemen, is to propose the constitutional reform of the elections that this government has proposed with eighty-four deputies; democratic regeneration is to have recognized the right to vote for 100 000 people with disabilities, thanks to the agreement of each and every one of the deputies in this legislature; democratic regeneration, ladies and gentlemen, is to lift, as this government did nothing more to reach the Moncloa, the veto over more than fifty laws that the majority of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group maintained. You had vetoed many laws and parliamentary initiatives that had been brought by the majority of this House on that pilgrim issue that affected the budget. [[Rumors]] Regeneration, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are going to do, which is to seek protection from the Constitutional Court - in this case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group - for the parliamentary blockade of many laws that you have prevented from being dealt with during this parliamentary term. Look, here in this House, there is a majority consensus among parliamentarians for having recognized within our public health system the right to euthanasia. And you, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, vetoed it, blocked it when there was a parliamentary majority here to carry it out. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: If you vetoed it too!]] That is the opposite of democratic regeneration. In this House there are majorities to repeal the law that you have prevented from being repealed as a result of the parliamentary veto that you have had over the past few months. [[Mr. Tarno Blanco: Didn't you come to talk about Brexit?-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u86	Yes, of course, like the Historical Memory Act, like labor reform and as many and so many legislative measures that could have come out during this legislature and that you have blocked. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to talk about democratic regeneration, let us talk about these issues. By the way, I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court in which it was precisely in the unborn parliamentary term of 2016 that you were practically eight months without appearing in the Congress of Deputies to be held accountable. So don't tell that to a government and to my person who has appeared on average almost once a month, either in the Congress of Deputies or in the Senate, to account for the government's political action. Mr. Married, I can't talk to you about Brexit because you haven't said anything; I can't talk beyond Venezuela because you're the only thing you do is a cataract of reproaches with falsehoods and lies. [[Protests]] You, of course, refer to your vision of the economy - which is not the real one - your vision of Catalonia, your vision of women, your vision of the victims of terrorism... By the way, I remind you of something that has been said to you by some associations linked to the victims of terrorism, and I quote you textually, so that you may be careful, Mr Casado. They say to him: Stop using the victims of terrorism to campaign, not to manipulate or manipulate us. [[Applauds]] That's the portrait, Mr. Married. [[Protests.-Some Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress point to Mrs Blanco Garrido and Mr Mateo Istúriz]] So much so, ladies and gentlemen, that you have come to say... [[The protests continue.-Mr. Mateo Istúriz makes negative gestures]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u87	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u88	So much so that you have come to say, Mr Casado, that the ETA agenda is being implemented in Catalonia. But what level and shame, Mr. Married. What level and shame and injustice for the victims of terrorism and for all those political parties that have paid blood for the struggle for democracy and freedoms in the Basque Country. [[Mr. Mateo Isturiz utters words that are not perceived]] [[Applauds]] You are going to repeat the mantra, I know - both you and Mr Rivera - that I have claudicated before the independenceists, that I have sold the national sovereignty of Spain, that I am approaching the terrorists to the Basque prisons because I am claudicating also... [[Several Members: Yes, yes, yes!]] Yes, if I know, if that's what you do when you're in opposition. [[Rumors]] When you are in the government you demand loyalty to the main opposition party, to the Socialist Party, now, when you are in the opposition you are the most disloyal with the state and, consequently, also with the government. [[the rumors continue]] [[applause.-Mr. Mateo Istúriz makes negative gestures]] I do not know what will happen next 28 April, ladies and gentlemen, but if I ask the Spanish to turn their backs on next 28 April to the lie, the rift and the insult. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Today, former President Rajoy appears before the Supreme Court to give his version - as the former Vice-President of the Government, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, has also done before - of the events of the crisis in Catalonia. [[Rumors]] And look, there have also been representatives of Catalan independence who during these days have said very interesting things before the Supreme Court and who, consequently, have told the truth. They have come to say in text that Rajoy always kept the channels of dialogue alive; even the illegal referendum of 1 October began an approximation of political, religious and business partners who wanted to avoid the misconception that this would end badly, that is, that it would end badly with 27 October and that it would end badly with the intervention of Catalonia's autonomy as a result of Article 155. I will say one thing to both Mr Casado and Mr Rivera - that of Mr Casado can have a pass, because he was not the leader of the opposition, that of Mr Rivera is absolutely unacceptable, because we all knew that these mediations and these talks were taking place -: I knew them and supported them, Mr Casado, and I supported them because I believed that the duty of the main opposition party was to stand on the side and shoulder with the Government of Spain in the face of an institutional, constitutional and territorial crisis which, if anything, was a vision of the State. And that vision of state was given by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] And the big difference with what is happening now is that you, a government that has had a unilateral declaration of independence, two illegal referendums under your mandate, the escape of the former President of Generalitat Puigdemont - all that happened under your mandate - come and give us lessons to defend the Constitution. Look, this is a constitutionalist government - with a party that supports this government - that will always defend the Constitution, enforce it and comply with the Constitution. Mr Casado, I ask you - I hope this happens, ladies and gentlemen of both Citizens and the People's Party - that once you hear the feeling of the street, that once you see - as I hope it happens - that citizens turn their backs on the rift, the insult and the territorial confrontation that you two are leading, that once you see that and suffer it in your own flesh in terms of vote, reflect, mature and do what the Socialist Party did when it was in opposition: being on the side of the government defending the Constitution, territorial integrity and national sovereignty. [[Applauds]] But these things are the same, because in the end here it is all hyperbolic, all exaggerated; here it goes up, Mr. Rivera gives a rally, does not speak of the Brexit, does not speak of Venezuela... Well, yes, Venezuela speaks to criticize the United Parliamentary Group We can, it is; to give lessons of democracy, of its democracy, which of course we do not share the rest, because we are excluded people. Returning to Catalonia, take a look at what has happened during these months. Catalonia's independence has become the second problem for the Spanish, in the CIS of November 2017... [[Rumors.-A lady MP: Tezanos]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u90	Yes, yes, that you only believe your data; well, that's it. [[Protests]] Catalonia's independence has gone from being the second problem for the Spanish, with 29% in the CIS of November 2017 - with you in the government, Mr Casado - to being one of the last, with 6.8% in the CIS of January 2019. In other words, 6.8% of those surveyed in the CIS in January 2019 consider Catalonia to be a problem for the country as a whole. Man, something will have to do with the government's action and try to build bridges with the Generalitat de Catalunya. [[Rumors]] Yeah, I know you don't, but you do. There are other things, Mr. Married, that I would simply like to remind you, because I told you before that you reduced your political project to insulting, lying. He comes here and tells us his economic data; I also don't know who advises him or where he gets that data, Mr. Casado, but I will remind him of some, more than anything to contrast, so that he studies a little more and not just recites those things that tell him. The Spanish economy is the only one among the large economies in the euro area that has accelerated its growth in the final straight of 2018. In the last quarter of the year, Spanish GDP grew by 0.7%, compared to 0.55% in the third quarter of 2018; that is, it has also accelerated thanks - I hope at least this will be acknowledged - to the good performance of this government's economic policy. The latest Commission forecasts indicate that the economy will continue to grow in 2019 above the main economies in the euro area: 2.1%. The Ministry of Economy has an estimate of 2.2% - the BBVA estimates it to be 2.4% - against France of 1.3%, Germany of 1.1%, Italy of 0.2% and 1.3% the whole of the euro area; that is to say, there will be a positive difference of growth during this year, and I hope that something has to do not only with the push of companies and workers, but also with the correct economic policy of the Government of Spain. The Spanish economy grew more in the second half of 2018 than in the first: 1.25% in the second half compared to 1.12% in the first half. Spain, ladies and gentlemen - Mr Casado, get better information - meets the public deficit target. The deficit has been reduced from 3,1 % in 2017 to 2,7 % in 2018. Spain also meets the public debt targets. Public debt in 2018 amounts to 96,6 % of gross domestic product, which means that the Government has met the target of 97,6 % of GDP. In employment, not only do I have to remind you of the decent employment plan approved by the Spanish Government at the beginning of its mandate, which has resulted in 61,445 temporary contracts being transformed into indefinite contracts, but 2018 was the best year since 2006 in job creation. Unemployment has been reduced by 462,000 people, i.e. an average of 1270 unemployed less per day and not what you are saying. And when we talk about job creation, I will point out that 566 000 more jobs have been created in 2018, an average of 1550 people a day have found jobs. I understand that it will also be thanks to the action and economic policy of this Government. And if we compare the 2018 semesters, Mr Casado, in the first half of 2018 220 000 jobs were created and in the first half of 2017 185 000 jobs were created. I tell you something else, the turnover of the industry increased in the year 2018 by 3,9%, the activity of the service sector grew by 5,8% in the entire year 2018; the risk premium remains stable about 110 basis points, and the consumption of households, Mr. Married - unlike what you are saying - has grown by 2.2%. I mean, find out, find out before you come up here, to the gallery, to pour falsehoods, which is the only thing he does every time he opens his mouth. I'll tell you something else, Your Honor, of course we wanted to approve some social budgets... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u91	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u92	You have voted against these budgets; you have voted against, for example, raising social spending to 57% of the total; you have voted against an additional 220 million to combat gender-based violence. Mr Rivera, EUR 220 million more to combat gender-based violence, and you voted against those budgets too - with the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] They have voted against having 25 million euros to fight child poverty; they have voted against 357 million euros for our country's R & D & i; they have voted against making an investment of 7572 million euros in infrastructure... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u93	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u94	... that we increase the scholarships by 10.2%, that they reach 831 million euros more to the dependents, that we eliminate the pharmaceutical copayo, that we increase the paternity permit from five to eight weeks, that we allocate 670 million euros to the Youth Employment Plan or 137 million euros for the plan of 20 000 housing for social rent. And you come here, ladies and gentlemen, to give us arguments and lessons of patriotism? [[Several Members: Yes.-Applause]] Patriotism would have been to adopt social budgets after seven years of social injustice, because even the most orthodox in economic policy would have to have thought not only of the EUR 6 billion more that we had the margin to be able to adapt our economic and budgetary perspectives to the objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact. [[applause]] You know that with these extended budgets we are going to have a bigger deficit than if we had approved the budgets that, unfortunately, the parliamentary majority of this Congress fell a few weeks ago. But I also say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: If I have the honour of being elected again President of the Government, the first measure I will bring will be social budgets, after seven years of social injustice, to rebuild the welfare state that you have dismantled. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Casado, we came here to talk about Brexit and Venezuela. I understand that you, both Mr Rivera and Mr Casado, care little about Brexit and Venezuela. I just want to give you some thought. The first in relation to Venezuela: Stop using in domestic terms the suffering of the Venezuelan people. You are no more democrats than the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Here we are all at the same level and under the same conditions to defend the regime of freedoms and human rights in Venezuela. The second, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, have a sense of state and support the royal decree-law that we are going to bring to the Congress of Deputies in order to be able to respond to a Brexit without agreement, to a disordered Brexit. Mr Bustinduy, of the United Parliamentary Group We can and its confluences, has spoken of some things I can agree with; in others, not so much. He talked about climate change. We have approved - and we have been criticized by the Member of the Foro Asturias - the energy plan, the climate plan, the just transition. We've made a preliminary draft climate change bill that we're going to bring to The Courts General. I blame myself for the issue of labour reform and, in that regard, I have to tell you, Your Honor, that you have to make numbers. You know how to count and you know that there is no parliamentary majority to repeal labour reform. I have already told you in my speech on the motion of censure: we are open to finding, together with other parliamentary groups that are not in favour of repealing labour reform, some changes for the benefit of the workers of our country. However, having a complete picture of everything that has been done in the field of work during these nine months, it must also be acknowledged that this Government has approved a youth employment plan; it must be recognized that this Government has adopted a plan to combat job insecurity and, consequently, to dignify the labour market; it must be remembered, for example, that this Government has committed itself to bringing before the end of this legislature an employment plan for those who are long-term unemployed. And I tell you another thing: one of the issues that we are going to bring in in a real decree on one of those social Fridays that we are going to have until the end of the legislature is the recovery of the subsidy to the unemployed over fifty-two years old, who unfortunately have not been able to see it as a result of the fall of the budgets. [[Applauds]] It must also be remembered that, thanks to an agreement with Uniti Podemos, we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage by 22%, which is the largest increase since 1977 in our country. It should also be remembered that this Friday the Council of Ministers is going to adopt a real decree-law with measures in favour of equal work for men and women. There will be some parliamentary groups - the top of them is precisely the People's Parliamentary Group - who reproach us for adopting before the end of the legislature some real decreesleys, but at this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies it has not been possible to process either the law on equal work that we proposed or the law on combating the wage gap that you proposed for the blocking of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which do not believe in this. Therefore, if we have any mechanism from the government to be able to articulate measures, in this case, for the benefit of equality between men and women, I hope that they can count on the support of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos In Comú Podemos In Marea when they are brought to this House. Mr. Rivera tells me I haven't talked about Brexit or Venezuela. [[Rumors]] It gives us regeneration lessons, although I don't know very well why. He tells us we haven't made any progress in this legislature. Perhaps the interprofessional minimum wage for you, Mr Rivera, is not a social advance. If Macron does it, good; if the sanchista does it, bad. If Macron does it, perfect; if the Socialist Party does it, to which you want to put a sanitary cord, it is fatal. The modern for you, Mr Rivera, is that there is no interprofessional minimum wage: the modern are the rental belly. The modern for you, Mr Rivera, is the oldest and oldest of these last forty years. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, the interprofessional minimum wage; the recovery of the universality of public health, to which you also opposed; the boost to science; the State Pact against Gender Violence, which you did not mention in your intervention. In the economy, the recognition of rights to the collective of the self-employed, representing three million workers in our country; the fight against job insecurity and for decent employment, the equality of work between men and women... Yes, I know that you care very little, Mr Rivera, but what I want to say is that if you were to learn a little more about everything that the Spanish Government has approved, it would not be so bold - to describe it that way - to come here and say categorically that there has been no social or economic progress. There have been, Mr Rivera, of course; another thing is that you consider not to be social and economic progress. In any case, little more can I say about your intervention. You tell us again about breaking up Spain. I would like you to tell me, Mr Rivera, a single political or legal measure that this government has taken and that it has represented a claudication to the independenceists. I am telling you this because I think it is also important to reflect. The motion of censure of May and June last year, if anything, was precisely - I have said it many other times in this plenary session of Congress - a demand for legislative power. There were various parliamentary groups here who voted in favour of this motion of censure because we understood that a party that had been convicted by the Supreme Court for irregular financing and illicit enrichment had to leave the Government. [[Several Members: That is a lie!]] Yeah, yeah. From this rostrum, Mr Rivera, I also sent the then President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, to resign, because if he resigned, the motion of censure was over. It did not and both they and you voted against a motion of censure that changed - that changed - the political cycle in this country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u95	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u96	The problem, Mr Rivera, is that since then you have been speechless and, instead of claiming a useful policy, instead of helping the Spanish Government, all you have done has been vetoing and blocking from the parliamentary point of view many of the social achievements that we could have achieved during this parliamentary term. I'll tell you one thing too, Mr. Rivera. They will not be in this legislature, but the law of euthanasia, the repeal of labour reform and, of course, all those conquests for the workers of this country, also the self-employed, will be approved by a new parliamentary majority led by the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] You failed that commitment to the regeneration you had in that motion of censure and you were definitely photographed with the right. I used to think, Mr Rivera, that you represented another kind of conservatism, but today there is only one right with three acronyms; that is, many acronyms and little idea. All I ask of you, Mr Rivera, is that in the debates that we are going to have and in this debate that we are also going to have you show more ideas and less testosterone; more ideas and less testosterone. You speak of democratic regeneration, Mr Rivera. But if in relation to Spanish Radio Television they are blocking the renewal of the board of directors for more than a year! If the renewal is blocked with that competition system that you have defended! If we hadn't taken the steps we took, Mr. Rivera... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u97	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u98	..., Mr. Sánchez and so many others who came here to Congress of Deputies to claim that they are members and voters of the People's Party, would continue to rule and manipulate Spanish Radio Television as unpunished as they did. [[Applauds]] You tell me about the General Council of the Judiciary. Your Honor, you really do not know how the members of the General Council of the Judiciary are elected. He doesn't know. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: By wasap?]] No, no, That's what you ask your partner, not me. But you, Mr. Rivera, would have to know how the General Council of the Judiciary is being renewed. It is the associations of judges who propose to the candidates who are then endorsed in the Congress of Deputies, Mr Rivera. Find out, study, be humble, don't come here and tell us your argument, that you don't believe anyone and that you're loaded with lies, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, even when you're talking about the health card, you're late and unaware of things. I was reminded by the Minister of Health that there is an interoperable electronic card for prescriptions and for the clinical history throughout the country. Mr Rivera, inform yourself and do not come here to make a little ridiculous your political positions as a result of their lack of knowledge. Mr Tardà, I thank you for your support for the Brexit. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Oh!-Various ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: What is it?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u99	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u100	Yes, as I have also thanked the People's Parliamentary Group. Is there a problem? Can't I thank those parliamentary groups that support Brexit? He tells us again about the referendum, and I have to tell him several questions. By the way, Mr. Tardà, to you, who is a Republican and shows it and to this party, which has had a long republican history, I have to tell you that this weekend I was in the tomb of Machado and in the tomb of Azaña... [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]] Mr. Tardà, listen to me, even for a moment. Many people were summoned: there were children, grandchildren and also some then Republican exile, eighty years ago. It was a real shame to hear independenceists scream Fascists! to the Republican exiles, an action that puts in place those who are defending independence in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That republican history is also the story of a progressive Spain that has been overshadowed by the forty years of Franco dictatorship. I would like the independence groups here in the House to at least ask for forgiveness and apologize for the insults directed against the Republican exiles. [[Rumors]] Yes, of Catalan independence, yes. Last weekend, in Colliure and Montauban, in the tomb of Azaña and in the tomb of Machado, the memory of the Republican exiles who defended, not only in Catalonia but throughout Spain, freedom and democracy was criticized and insulted, which was precisely tainted by dictator Franco. You're talking about the referendum. In addition to the technical arguments, we have spoken on many occasions, Mr Tardà, about the Constitution. We have also talked about, in relation to the United Kingdom, that in Scotland what there is is an international treaty and, consequently, there is no Constitution that supports a referendum for self-determination. I have also said on other occasions, Mr Tardà - this is not the first time - that there are territorial tensions in Europe, regions where there are indeed political movements calling for independence. But when the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court of these countries tell these independence movements that it is not constitutional, that it is outside the law, in these countries what these independence movements do is to assume what the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court say. And that is the big difference with Catalan independence, which you have not taken the sentences, not one or two or three, but many of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, against what you did on 6 and 7 September 2017, against what you did on 1 October and against what you did on 27 October. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the independence groups, all I ask is that, just as we all have to do a self-criticism of everything that happened in 2017, so do you. Or did you do everything right on September 6 and 7, 2017? Or did you guys do it all right on October 1st? Or did you guys do it all right on October 27th? Man, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we propose an honest dialogue, as it has to be, first, you must be very aware that everything you are proposing is outside the Constitution and that, consequently, this Government is never going to accept it; and, second, if something happens precisely in Catalonia, it is that there is a problem of coexistence and that this problem of coexistence is not going to be resolved by a referendum where yes or no is said to be a question. Because, fortunately, democracy is not a face or a cross, there are many more options. And the option that this Government and the parliamentary group that supports it will always defend is coexistence and not independence. [[Applauds]] I was making some gesture from some of the colleagues in your parliamentary group, Mr Tardà, and it is true, you are right. What is the great contribution of the Citizen Parliamentary Group to Catalan political life? Politics I understand it as a medicine to cure wounds, not to hurled into wounds, recreate and try to benefit from suffering, which is what the Citizen Parliamentary Group is doing. [[Applauds]] If I know. I am a Spaniard more than I felt overwhelmed to see how the opposition leader in the Catalan Parliament stands in front of the residence of a fugitive from justice to say I don't know what. Is that really politics, Mr. Rivera? Politics, Mr Rivera, is dialogue and law, dialogue and law, dialogue and law. [[Applauds]] That is true of those who defend dialogue within the Constitution, a health cordon, and the far right, Mr Rivera, to see if we can rely on it to face democratic institutions. I'm very afraid, Mr. Rivera, that the Spaniards will turn their backs on you. Mr. Tardà, about Venezuela, look, I'm not going to be someone who defends the President of the United States here. I place myself in the antipodes of all policies and of what Mr Trump represents in political terms. But I also tell you one thing: the ad hominem arguments do not make a dictator like Mr Maduro legitimate in this case in Venezuela. I'm neither with Mr. Trump nor with Mr. Maduro. I am in a position that the Spanish Government has led within the European Union, and that is that we did not recognize the elections in May; we did not recognize the presidential elections; we recognized the legislative elections to the National Assembly of Venezuela. Therefore, after 10 January there is a vacuum of power and legitimacy within Venezuela and it has to be resolved with democratic elections urgently. We oppose any kind of military intervention. I have not heard from either Mr. Married or Mr. Rivera about whether or not they are in favour of such military intervention. I tell you that the Spanish Government is not going to support it and that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to support it. [[Applauds]] I would also like you to say whether or not Mr Casado and Mr Rivera are going to support a military intervention in Venezuela. In any case, what I'm saying to you, Mr. Tardà, is that it's one thing not to support Maduro and it's another thing to settle down with Trump. Man, that seems to me to be pretty unrealistic, pretty untrue. We are defending the position of the European Union, among other issues because we believe that the European Union has to go hand in hand, that the European Union's foreign policy on a matter as fundamental as the crisis in Venezuela, not only for the millions of Venezuelans living in the country, who are migrating or being exiled, but also for the whole region - and here we have had a good example with the President of Peru, with seven hundred thousand Venezuelans who are right now in Peru, but if I were to speak to the President of Colombia now I would say the same thing - for, man, I think the most sensible thing is to do what the Spanish Government has done, to set up a contact group together with other European countries, also with other Latin American countries, and to try to provoke democratic elections in which it is the Venezuelan people, without any restrictions, without any kind of political prisoners - because there are political prisoners, Mr Tardà - who make free, fair elections and decide their future. That is what we are defending, and there are progressive governments that are also defending this position: the Portuguese Government is not a conservative Government, it is a progressive Government, like the Government of Spain; the Government of Sweden is a progressive Government; the Government of Costa Rica is a progressive Government; and the Government of Canada is also a progressive Government, Your Honor. Therefore, do not ridicule and assimilate the position of all those who want a democratic solution to the conflict in Venezuela with the thesis of Trump, the ultra-right or the Spanish right, which is clearly in other latitudes. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we would all do ourselves a favour if we did that exercise in order to have a clear and determined position on this issue. Mr Esteban, I think there are some certainties about Brexit, and the first of them - as I said in my speech - is that there is not going to be an amendment to the withdrawal agreement, because it has been an agreement that has been very difficult for us to reach the 27 countries that we belong to the European Union. As I said in my speech, we can open up to some amendment on the political declaration of future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom if that can serve the British Prime Minister in order to be able to approve the withdrawal agreement and the agreements he has reached with the European Union in the British Parliament, but, Mr Esteban, it does not hold us responsible for everything. The problem we are also facing in the United Kingdom is that right now it is the British Parliament - to say the least in very colloquial terms - that there is therefore a problem of dialogue which I hope can be resolved as soon as possible in the sense that the British Parliament finally validates and supports the withdrawal agreement signed by Teresa May with the European Union. Mr Esteban, a second certainty is that we - as I said in my first speech - will be open to an extension so that on 29 March there will not be a disordered Brexit, a cliff edge, which could be very harmful to the British and logically also to the whole of the European Union. But, as I said in my speech, if there is an extension it has to serve for something, and that for something, what can it be? Can it be so that the withdrawal agreement can be taken back to the British Parliament and that it can find a parliamentary majority that it does not have today? Maybe. Could it be to call a second referendum? Maybe. Is it possible for the British Parliament to finally agree that the best thing is a customs union with the European Union? Maybe. These last two are proposals that the Labour Party has put forward in the UK, but I insist that these issues have more to do with British politics and its internal dynamics, a policy that if you look closely at it you realize that it is dominated by negative coalitions. The problem is that there is no parliamentary majority in favour of something; there are different majorities in the British Parliament against the crisis that has been created as a result of the referendum on Brexit. With regard to the royal decree-law, this afternoon we are going to have a meeting with the parliamentary groups and I hope that some of the doubts that you raised in your speech can be cleared up. And logically I thank you for your position on Venezuela because I think it is important to find the support you have expressed. Turning for a moment to the issue of the Brexit and the Royal Decree-Law which we are going to adopt next Friday, I would like to say to your ladies and gentlemen something that seems important to me. Only France, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands now have a legislative response to a hard Brexit, to an unagreed Brexit. We will be the fifth country, and I believe that this shows that the Government has worked quickly, promptly and with high responsibility for these eight months. I hope that the parliamentary groups will consider this at this afternoon's meeting. Mr Campuzano, I believe that many of the things I have outlined in my speech will have responded to your approaches. On Venezuela, I thank you very much for your position; on Brexit, I also thank you very much for your position, and I logically disagree about the reasons that led me to the early call for elections. I disagree, because you reflect on the fact that you can't actually rule against Catalonia, and I agree, but who rules against Catalonia? We have proposed budgets that involve the fulfilment of public investments in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; we have proposed to boost the financing of neighbourhoods, the axis of the Mediterranean corridor, which is fundamental to the competitiveness of the whole Mediterranean and in particular Catalonia; we have also proposed the recovery of rights that have been undermined in recent years as a result of the wrong policies of the right, and I am referring to the social security contributions of the non-professional caregivers of dependents, who are mostly women; we have proposed an unmatched boost in the National Unity System thanks to the agreement we had with Unite Podemos. We have done so many things for each and every citizen of this country, and also for every and every territory, that the question you ask me I ask you and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Who is ruling against Catalonia, Mr. Campuzano? Because, perhaps, by lowering these budgets, the answer is not this government, but you. [[Applauds]] I will now turn to some of the issues that have remained in the pipeline but which I think are important in relation to the Brexit; for example, those relating to fisheries, which I am sure are of interest to the PNV Parliamentary Group. The fisheries sector is logically a strategic sector for Spain. The main objective of the Government of Spain for the fisheries sector is to maintain a relationship with the United Kingdom which is most similar to the current one, that is to say to maintain the status quo and above all access to the fishing resources of the United Kingdom's waters under the same conditions as hitherto and, in this regard, the Commission has put on the table two contingency measures which I consider important also to be contained in the Journal of Sessions: one aimed at allowing fishermen and operators in the Member States to receive compensation from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for the temporary cessation of fishing activities, and the other aimed at ensuring the possibility of mutual access to the waters of the United Kingdom and the European Union until the end of 2019, giving some months of scope while seeking solutions. With regard to the approach also taken by the Canarian MEP, logically in everything to do with the export of tomatoes, we are going to put in place measures to mitigate this possible exit from the Brexit, considering the United Kingdom as a third State. With regard to the crisis in Iberia, I have to say to both the Canary Islands Coalition and also to Mr Pedro Quevedo - whom I do not see right now - that he is not here, that a half-year transitional period has been achieved with the European Commission, which is going to try to resolve the doubts which the European Commission now has about IAG's and, in this case, Iberia's Europeanness. These are the questions I would have liked to transfer to Mr Quevedo, but you are sending him to you. Nor do I have much more to add to Bildu's spokesman because I believe that I have responded in my speech to everything he has put forward. I will simply tell you that when you say that you govern for the social majority what you have done has been to block the processing of clearly social budgets. When I'm told that if the government rules with you, with the independenceists... The obvious proof that there is no agreement precisely with you or with the independenceists is that you, together with the People's Party and Citizens, have laid down the General Budgets of the State proposed by this government. [[Applauds]] Mr. Alli, I wish you all the luck in the world. I understand that in his speech he has dismissed parliamentary activity. I thank you very much for your work as a parliamentarian. I logically blame him for allowing with his vote not to deal with these budgets which he considered to be good also for shipwrecks and shipwrecks, but that will have to be addressed by the citizens by their vote on 28 April. I say to Mr Foro Asturias that there are 4,000 workers in the renewable energy sector in Asturias, which you do not seem to remember. I also remind you that this Government has agreed with the mining-related unions on funds for the just transition. And I would also like to say, Your Honor, that you do not recognise that Asturias, for example, holds the fifth place in investment, with more than EUR 250 per inhabitant, and that, if these budgets had been approved, Asturians and Asturians would have benefited from the increase in pensions, parental leave of eight weeks or improvements in unemployment benefits. And that moreover the draft General State Budgets included 310 million euros for Asturias, 22.1% more than the previous year, this figure includes - keep this data, Your Honor - the real investment, which is 295.4 million euros, and 55.72 million euros more than in 2017, that is an additional 23%. If you, on the basis of these increases, last year supported the budgets, what is not understood is that in this case you have rejected these budgets, unless you understand a partisan logic that has nothing to do with the general interest of Asturians and Asturians. [[Applauds]] To his lordship Ana Oramas and also to Pedro Quevedo I want to tell you that logically, when I speak of claiming a Spain in which we all fit and not a Spain in which only the three people who led the famous photo of Columbus Square, when I speak of that the Constitution has multiple ways of being read, that there are multiple ways of feeling Spain, logically, in my having and also in the having of the Government of Spain is the having ruled for the Canary Islands and for all the Canary Islands and Canary Islands. And if not, there are the things that the Ministry of Development has done, there are the things that the Minister of Territorial Policy has done, there are the things that the Minister of Labour has done, there are the things that the Minister of Education has done, and there is the fact that in this legislature - thanks also to this government - the renewal of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy has been approved and the special tax regime for the Canary Islands has been approved, which were long-requested claims and which, thanks also to the impetus of this government, have been carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last intervention before the double that I will make... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u101	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u102	I simply wanted to convey my deep respect to Members Joan Tardà and Alli - and to all your ladies and gentlemen who are not going to repeat it -. From the deepest discrepancy, they have and have my political respect and personal appreciation. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u103	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, honestly, I felt ashamed to see the President of the Government of Spain without applauding the President of Peru when he was denouncing a criminal dictatorship such as that of Mr Maduro. [[Applauds]] Can you explain to us why the Government was not applauding and why the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group was not applauding? From the Communist group of Podemos I won't ask you. But were you disagreeing with what he was saying, that you had to overthrow a satrap who was killing, who was in prison, who was torturing, who was violating human rights? Or is it that if it were a right-wing dictatorship we wouldn't all be saying exactly the same thing? Or do you owe any vote to your partners to not be able to say what all the West and all the developed countries are saying about this criminal dictatorship? [[Rumors]] Frankly, Mr Sánchez, I am ashamed to see you dance with European leaders and yet dance to the sound of Maduro's baton and the Cuban dictatorship. I think it's unfortunate. [[Applauds]] And I think the image that the President of Peru has taken today is frankly better. Let's see if it gives me time to respond to everything they've said, because it's amazing. They talk about economy, you talk about economy! They're talking about the January EPA, 200,000 Social Security affiliates less...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u105	Wait a minute, Mr. Married. I would like to remind all members of this House that we cannot make videos in the Chamber. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u106	They were talking about the EPA where 83,000 people went up in January. Mrs. Lastra even spoke that the third quarter had been very good. Yes, 183,000 Social Security affiliates. [[Rumors]] And the fourth was only 36,000, that is, 150,000 less affiliates since you're ruling. Therefore, read the figures. He says they've cut the government deficit in record time. Man, yes! In record time it has been increased from the 2.2 expected to 2.7. You are talking about social Fridays, but you have the misunderstanding to come here in office to say that Fridays are going to announce, in an electoralistic way, instrumentalizing the institutions, a social policy that you will not be able to approve or pay and that, when you have ruled, both with Felipe González, with Zapatero, and with your brief and nefarious Government, what you have done is to owe us, raise the deficit and break the pensions, break the social policy, and the People's Party Government will already come to improve it, for the third time, unfortunately. [[Applauds]] They talk about women's policy, and yes, I have to say again that the State Pact against Gender Violence was a commitment of Mariano Rajoy at a Conference of Presidents, and we are bringing it to a successful conclusion. [[Rumors and protests.-A lady MP: Lie!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u107	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u108	And against the abusers, no euphemism. Moreover, our party defends the permanent, reviewable prison, which you are denying. [[Applauds]] No euphemism. People who misbehave women are the bosses, who are discriminating against them in their wages. Therefore, read or see the entire interviews. And by the way, on the subject of ill-treatment do not accuse this parliamentary group, because the only politician with a firm condemnation of ill-treatment is a member of the Socialist Party and an uncluttered negotiator with terrorism etarra, Mr Eguiguren. [[Applauds]] Therefore, not a lesson in the fight against violence against women. That's it! Stop facing the Spaniards, the women with the men, the territories, that's all right! As for Catalonia, they say: it is that it has made a similarity with Batasuna. I didn't say it, Otegi said it. Otegi is the one who said that the party table was a Batasuna proposal, that the rapporteur was a Batasuna proposal, and Otegi said this week that I wish you would continue to rule, because that is what Batasuna wants, that you continue to rule. That is what Mr. Mas said: What a mistake to have fallen to Mr. Sánchez! Don't you see that your support is giving him away? Do you not see the road map of Pedralbes, with a negotiation of twenty-one points, with self-determination, calling on the Forces and Security Bodies of the State directly fascists, saying that the monarchy was pseudo-Franco, saying that justice was politicized, that there was police abuse, that international mediation was needed? Hey, you hid that document for two months, why? And if you did it unintentionally, tell us here and now - we've already had five sessions asking you, say it here and now - will you re-agree with the Independenceists? Yes or no? Are you going to support a vote or a self-determination consultation? Yes or no? And above all, will you pardon the prisoners who have given a coup d'état if they are convicted? Yes or no? Say it. [[Applauds]] Before going to the polls the Spaniards have the right to know what you are going to do. Leave the game of trileros, raising the cubettes: if there is a mediator, if there is a rapporteur, if it is international, if it is Irish or if it is national. All right, Mr. Sanchez, we've got you all the Spaniards. At the very least, do not have the misunderstanding to come here to deny it and to insult the constitutionalists, that what we have said is that in Spain we cannot give national sovereignty to those who want to break it, that it is not talking to the Catalans, that there are much more Catalan deputies of constitutionalism than of independence in this House, to stop humiliating their own ministers, to those who spit them out, to those who send Europe to be sympathetic to the independenceists and, above all, to stop hiding that this legislature has been a failed legislature. How can you talk about sanitary cords with your party, which was the Tinell Pact party, which excluded most or half of the Spaniards? How can you talk about responsibility, you who have agreed with those partners? How can you speak of humility? You say so, humility, Mr. Sanchez. [[Laughter]] You speak of humility! Frankly, I have not seen a more egregious person in the whole history of recent parliamentaryism in this House. [[Applauds]] Humility you? You talk about moderation and I just told you that in August we have a hand. It was you who wanted to agree with whom you decided without warning us and without calling us. You talk about dialogue. Won't it be with me? I've been without a call since August, and I'm the leader of the opposition. Perhaps Mr Rajoy was talking or Mr Rubalcaba or Mr Aznar or Mr González. You, who have been giving no signs of life for seven months, are asking for dialogue with those who are in favour of the Constitution and are now holding hands again after the elections to which the Constitution and national unity are to be charged? Honestly, how can you speak of responsibility right now? In the next elections we will vote on what happens in Spain in the next four years. That is the responsibility, a government of Pedro Sánchez with Bildu, with Podemos, with the independenceists or a government led by the People's Party, to lower taxes, to create employment, to make an educational reform for all, also for the concerted one, a government that does what it does to implement the Constitution in Catalonia in order to free the oppression of the illegality of those who are being tried, by the way, thanks to the work of the State Advocate, the Attorney General's Office and the implementation of the 155 of a Government of the People's Party, which is today saying what we did. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Of course they supported us, but they had no choice but to support us. Mrs Lastra, since you speak of Machado and the young man, you will refer to your boss, the Falcon, because here there are no young men, here there are patriots who defend Spain, here there are patriots who defend Spain. [[applause]] And the oracles of power are left to Mr Sánchez, he wanted to be former president of the government; he has already done it, he will travel, he will give lectures, which seems to be what you have invested in all this time. But I told him something last week and I tell him again: no one has done so much harm to Spain in such a short time and, fortunately, on 28 April Spain will wake up from its nightmare, to which it has plunged the whole nation. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u109	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u110	Thank you very much, President. I have finished my speech this morning talking about parliamentary decorum and I cannot help but reflect on some of the things I have heard since then. This is the Legislative Power, it is the seat of popular sovereignty in a democracy that has cost decades of struggles... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u111	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u112	... entire generations have left the best of their lives so that today we can live in a democracy and I think that means that we must have a little respect for this Parliament. In a democratic Parliament you must say what you want, what you create, what you think, but you cannot say anything. The democratic debate has limits that have to do with probity, with good faith, with honesty, and the drift of the Spanish right is tremendously worrying. When you want to put the handbrake, you will not be able, you are doing the job to a drift that will pass over you, because there are things you shouldn't be able to do. What you're doing is opportunistic, and that doesn't mean simply pulling out revenue or trying to pull out political revenue from what's going on, that's normal, it's done by everyone in politics, what you're doing is trying to turn any situation into an opportunity to serve your own interests and that's irresponsible. What you are doing with the speech about Catalonia is irresponsible. What's your future project? What is your draft solution? What plan do you have beyond putting everyone in jail? How many people are going to go to jail to solve the problem in Catalonia? They're not even thinking about it, they're just looking for their own electoral revenue. I am convinced that if the possibility of finding a democratic, constitutional solution to this problem were to be presented, you would not accept it right now, you would not want it, because it takes your interest from the side, because it takes what interests you in the short term, it is a capital irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] In any case, think what you think and if you believe in your ideas, try to convince, try to contrast them, do not caricature, do not ridicule, do not lower the level, do not lie. Mr Rivera, I have made a number of comments to you earlier on what you have said about the interprofessional minimum wage and you are very free not to answer or discuss, you can do whatever you want, but please do not caricaturize what I say. You have literally said that we want to criminalize the one who plays it. I have asked you directly before what you think of the 60 billion that the bank has not returned us from the bank bailout. Does the bank play it? Well, you play it if you consider that the bank plays in a casino where when it wins, wins and when it loses, we lose ourselves. The question is: do you consider it lawful, legitimate, correct that the bank does not return the money we put among all the Spaniards? [[Applauds]] That's the question, either you answer it or you don't answer it, but don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Mr Casado, you were asking this morning which social democratic, conservative and European government makes the stability of a country dependent on a group of six or eight nationalists. The Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy until nine months ago, Aznar in his career. [[applause]] Yeah, yeah, sure. It is that you apply permanently a standard that does not apply to yourselves. I have asked you both a very explicit, very concrete question and I believe that of interest in the political debate that we are having now: will you support a military intervention in Venezuela? Are you going to support a military overthrow in Venezuela? The question is very simple, answer it. Mr Sánchez, it is true that you have complained that the previous groups did not talk about what we came here to discuss on the agenda, but then you have spent an hour answering them, and I, who have dealt with it, have sent me in thirty seconds, even though I was talking to you about important things - I think - which have to do with Spain's position in the world. [[applause]] You have repeated two things today that are contradictory. He said: our only horizon for Venezuela is free elections and we are opposed to military intervention. The United States road map provides for nothing other than that. How do you intend free elections to be held in Venezuela? What is the Government's road map? Because I am already telling you that this horizon of free elections depends on a peaceful agreement between the parties with the endorsement of international bodies. Do you know who's been trying to do this for two years? Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero, and you have made life impossible for him. I was trying to avoid precisely the situation that is taking place now. Smile, smile, but answer the question: will you support an illegal war in Venezuela? Are you going to support a military coup d'état in Venezuela to overthrow a government by force? [[Applauds]] Answer the question. Mr Sánchez, what I was asking you is what future project, what political horizon you put forward for Spain. The other day, in a brilliant article, philosopher Santiago Alba Rico quoted Galdós as saying that patience is heroism diluted in time. And Spain knows a lot about patience. I believe that we have been patient, realistic, pragmatic, but we are also very clear that we cannot walk in two opposite directions at the same time. We are very clear about the horizon that must be pursued, a democratic horizon that puts forward the defence of the interests of the social majority who have paid with their rights the price of a crisis that they did not provoke, but we want you to tell us that you are also clear, we want the Socialist Party to clarify in which direction the country project that is going to present Spain is headed. As you advance in the democratic interest of our people, you will be able to count on our cooperation. If you are going to return, as we have already warned you in your day, to have velocities, to doubt, to flirt with the possibility of agreeing with those who are in that incessant drift that can pass over the fundamental achievements of Spanish democracy, then you will not be able to count on us. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u113	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you have done a real control session for Citizens in your speech, but I understand it, because you fear that some socialists are leaving you, as happened yesterday with Joan Mesquida, as happened with ninety-five thousand voters in Andalusia and as a Vaticanian who will pass you on 28 April, because there are many people who voted for the Socialist Party when I was a constitutionalist. What is Mr. Sánchez doing with constitutionalism? Put a health cord on Citizens and do not want to reach agreements with Citizens and the People's Party. He prefers Torra, Puigdemont and Rufián. [[Applauds]] Yes, you have come to the government with whom you want to liquidate Spain. There are also coherent ones, Esquerra Republicana has never been hidden, wants to liquidate Spain, that is, it puts it in its idea; it does not need to be a lynx to know that the independenceists want to load this country. But you don't care, because you're capable of anything. Mr. Sanchez, state policy, do you know what it is? Do not rule with those who want to burden the state; that is state policy, which is the opposite of what you have done. [[Applauds]] Because if I had to reach an agreement with another parliamentary group and what his main spokesman, in this case the President of the Generalitar, says by his mouth, Mr Torra is: we must attack the state and we must put an end to the state... What do you do? Instead of fighting that with the Constitution and democracy, you agree with them, Mr Sánchez. He comes to the Moncloa by mortgageting not you but the Spaniards, by the hand of those who want to liquidate our country. Mr Sánchez, the meeting you had in Pedralbes with Mr Torra is a shame for Spanish democracy. You know why? Because they put on the table twenty-one points that disqualify you from being president in the next legislature. One cannot be president of Spain and accept that it is said in a document given to him by a president of the Generalitat that the Civil Guard and the Police are repressive bodies. How do you have the nerve to accept that and say: we're going to study it? How can you accept that Spain is said to be a Francoist country when this is a democracy? How can you accept that Torra attacks our judges while they throw yellow paint at their homes and you, to keep a quarter of an hour in power, tell him: will we study it, Mr. Torra? What a president of government has to do, which is what I would do, is to say: Mr. Torra, immediately withdraw that document and tomorrow I will send you a request under Article 155 for you to answer me whether or not you intend to comply with the Constitution in Catalonia. That's what a president would have to do. [[Applauds]] But you do not want to apply the Constitution because you have only one possible alliance. How well my party's executive did and how well some socialists have done to abandon socialism, because you have betrayed constitutionalism. Mr. Sanchez, do you know what you're doing with the constitutionalists left in your ranks? You purge them, Mr. Sanchez, you throw them off the lists. He throws Mr. Alfonso Guerra from the foundation he was at the front; he throws out some deputies who have defended the Constitution for criticizing his pact with the nationalists. That is what you are doing, turning the Socialist Party into something else; abducting what has been a state party to turn it into a crutch of separatism. That is what you have done with the Socialist Party. That is why, Mr Sánchez, we must send the opposition, with votes, with democracy, to the polls. If there are more seats in this House to govern a constitutionalist party and not the Socialist Party with the separatists, we will lead that government, Mr Sánchez. And we are also going to do this by thinking of all the Spaniards, also of the voters left to the Socialist Party; also of those socialists betrayed by sanchism; also of those who believe that separatists are not allies, are adversaries and that constitutionalists are allies. Mrs Lastra, I am not going to spend much time with you, but I only tell you one thing: the Socialist Party's involution is summed up in an image. Number two of the Socialist Party was Alfonso Guerra, today it's you. That is the Socialist Party's involution. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: That's machismo]] Yes, Mr Alfonso Guerra, a constitutionalist, who recently in this House said: Is anyone there?, referring to the Socialist Party. [[Protests]] And today number two of the PSOE insults those who carry the flag of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u116	That is, Mr Alfonso Guerra defending the Constitution and Mrs Lastra attacking those who carry the constitutional flag. That is the summary of the involution of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and that is why we must send them to the opposition. Finally, you speak of Mrs. Arrimadas, of Citizens. Mr Sánchez, if you had what you have to have, which is courage, what citizens do in Brussels and other countries you would do from the government. Have you closed any embassy that Mr. Torra opened with public money? Have you done anything in foreign policy so that those embassies are not open? Public money from the State is being spent on attacking the State. That's what you're doing, Mr. Sanchez, allowing your partners not to get angry so they don't take away the Falcon. That's what you're doing. And what we want is a foreign policy that defends Spain. Mr. Sánchez, you have Mr. Iceta, indeed, and I'm lucky to have Inés Arrimadas by my side. And if we govern Spain with Inés Arrimadas and with many more people, some coming from - as I said - his political party, if we make a transversal and constitutionalist government, I assure you that if Mr Torra asks us for a meeting he will not put those measures on the table. I assure you... [[Laughter]] Yes, you laughed at the Catalans living in Catalonia suffering the separatists. You laugh, laugh. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Mr Sánchez, this question will have to be answered by 28 April, because the Spaniards deserve respect. Are you going to pardon if there's a sentence on the thugs? Yes or no? Will you grant Mr. Iceta's pardon? Mrs. Arrimadas calls for democracy and the Constitution; Mr.Iceta asks for pardons for the coups. That is the difference between the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Group. Mr Sánchez, I am very proud - of course I am! - of having people like Inés Arrimadas, like Joan Mesquida, like many other people who are going to join a great constitutionalist project. As long as socialism remains at the hands of separatists, constitutionalists have in Citizens, in the political center of this country, the sum possible. [[laughs]] You laugh at socialist voters too, it's that you laugh at even those you've lost. You have lost 95,000 votes in Andalusia, Mr Sánchez, for doing things like this. I ended up talking about the woman, Mr. Sanchez. Do you know what it's like to defend a woman? Investing the State Pact money, which you have not done. I'll give you a piece of information. In Andalusia, while you have ruled, you have stopped investing 75 out of 100 euros in the State Pact against Macho Violence. [[Applauds]] That's what you've done. So, Mr Sánchez, equality is defended by policies, not words, it is defended by facts, with three more weeks of parental leave for parents, which is what Citizens have achieved. [[Rumors]] Yes, you voted against those budgets and, despite that, you went ahead and extended them. You have voted against measures in favour of work and family reconciliation. You, in this case, have not invested the money that was in the budgets to defend women from the macho violence in Andalusia. We will do so from the very beginning in the Government of Andalusia and we will keep and invest that money from the state pact when we govern Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u117	Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that republicanism has never been liquidated, in any case it has been liquidated. First of all, our objective is nothing other than the Catalan Republic and contribute in everything and more to making the third Spanish Republic a reality. This is our goal. Secondly, Mr. Married, you are too young to distill so much hatred. [[Applauds]] It cannot be that a person born in democracy distils this hatred, it is not understood. Something we haven't done well for those of us who are a little older than you. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make sense for the air and everything here to breathe out just a few days before very serious things happened in 1936. [[Rumors]] I refer, for example, to a leader of the Spanish right who, unfortunately, was murdered, Mr Calvo Sotelo, who was also a great intellectual and a great parliamentarian. In fact, it is worth reviewing the minutes and you will see how and how some manifestations that are already being normalized here are positions very similar to those of those times. Therefore, I repeat, it is too young to distill this hatred, which I do not know if it is pose, because surely you are a good person, but, at least politically, what emerges is, frankly, worrying. I repeat, too young. Mr Sánchez, I believe that you have not been fair today; even, I must say that we are very hurt. You know perfectly well that, for example, in 1995, when the 50th anniversary of the liberation of the Mauthausen extermination camp was commemorated, in which 7000 Spanish Republicans died in the quarry and in the gas chambers, if I do not say all, yes many European presidents or presidents - I was there and I can prove it - were there. Do you know which government was missing? The government of Felipe González. It was the only Government that did not attend the 50th anniversary of the self-liberation of the Mauthausen extermination camp. You know why? By the Republican flag. [[Rumors]] Yes, because, when there were still so many Spaniards and Catalans who had survived, it was clear that we had to go with the Republican flag, which was the flag they had fought with, the flag of freedoms, the anti-fascist flag. And the Spanish government decided not to go, and there were hundreds of Spanish Republicans, already very grandparents, who paraded as if they were stateless. I remind you that they were destined there because of their statelessness. I think you should have carried the two flags the other day, the constitutional flag and the Republican flag, but you didn't. There were people who were protesting, apparently many Catalan French citizens, sons of Republicans!, who were shouting: free political prisoners! Do you believe that the children and grandchildren of Republicans residing in France, Catalans, were going to insult their dead? Please! And if anyone said any insults directed at you, I think it was unfair and of course you have to condemn it, but, in any case, it was because of your political positions, it was not a personal insult and, of course, it was not an insult to the exiles either. And you said here today that Catalan independenceists went to insult the Republicans. [[The President of the Government: Yes!]] That's not true. [[Mr Zaragoza Alonso: It was so!]] That's not true. [[Mr. Zaragoza Alonso: Yes, it is!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u119	Wait a minute, Mr. Tardà. Mr Zaragoza, when you are in the rostrum, speak; in the meantime, let us listen to Mr Tardà. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u120	In any case, it is clear that at the demonstration - and I absolutely don't know who summoned her and who was there, although I get news that they were French citizens, no matter what - they wore banners calling for the freedom of political prisoners. Moreover, it was frankly regrettable that Republicans were not honoured with the Republican flag. Even so - I finish, Madam President - I ask you only two things. One, that we do not do too much harm and that we do not deepen in the ditch, in the fracture between you and us because if there is one thing we should bear in mind is that in the face of social progress and the conquest of freedoms, I do not think it is advisable to use the adverb ever. Moreover, I am convinced - and I told you the other day - that the day after the elections we will have to talk, we will have to dialogue, because you and we are eager to build solutions; unfortunately, Mr Rivera and Mr Married, and less the fascists of Vox, I think they are not interested. Then the line that has to separate us is between those who want to solve historical challenges and those who do not, in the hope that one day we can all understand each other in the name of democracy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Pause]] He's not gonna step in. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u122	Mr. Married, objective data: Second quarter 2018 EPA, 19,344,100 occupied; fourth quarter 2018, 19,564,800 occupied; second quarter 2018, 3,490,000 unemployed; fourth quarter, 3,304,000 unemployed. Mr. Married, it's that the objective reality is this, the data from the EPA are these, we just looked for them. I mean, you lie again and come out here again to tell lies, in this case, with data on the unemployed. It's the usual thing about you, it's nothing new. Do you know what's going on? That the character has already surpassed the mark. You lead a party that has built this country, that has ruled the autonomous communities, most of the municipalities, provincial parliaments, a party that has a long history of public service to this country and the PP is no longer spoken of, you only speak of Casado because the character has surpassed the mark and it is something that, truly, I deeply regret because I have always respected the People's Party a lot. Stop lying, stop going out to the rostrum to say barbarities and lie again with the state pact and lie again with gender-based violence; go back to being loyal to your party and also to this country, and above all, stop being disloyal to the citizens of this country because, look, the worst is not that it has been disloyal to the state, the worst is that it has been disloyal to half the population of this country, that we are women, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] As Mr Campuzano said, paraphrasing Ignatieff, I have no political enemies, I have political opponents. I don't hate anyone in this House, Mr. Rivera. Personal attacks I don't make, you make them. But look, I'm going to tell you one thing: what I'd be worried about is a jumper from politics that changes ideology like jacket, that supports the rental belly, that came to this Parliament saying in those elections that I wanted to end the Law against Gender Violence, that it deals with the far right of Vox and manifests itself with Home Social and Falange will speak well of me; that's what I'd be worried about, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] I am not allergic to Spain - I wanted to say this because before she also questioned me; she is more concerned with the spokesman of the Socialist Group than with the President of the Government - and I am not allergic to my flag, because it is mine too. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: He's from the sidelines]] What makes me allergic is what some of you intend to do with that flag, with my flag, because you are wrapped in meters, meters and meters of flag cloth to hide that you intend to reverse rights and freedoms in this country, to hide that you have agreed with the far right of Vox and all that you are doing now in Andalusia, to really hide what you are - the pure and hard right of this country - and what you are coming to do. And that's my flag too, which is why it offends me that you get involved in it and patrimony it. There's not enough meters of flag cloth to cover Columbus's picture or the deal with Vox or Waterloo's picture, Mr. Rivera. The President of the Government was talking about what we are dedicated to in this Congress of Deputies, which is basically the legislative initiative, for which they have chosen us. But do you know what happened? That in the last nine months the People's and Citizens' Party, the great democrats and constitutionalists, have systematically blocked laws such as - I will give you three examples - the law of euthanasia. ..Yes, again, and I will continue to say it day after day, intervention after intervention. [[Rumors.-A Member of Parliament: Again]] [[Applauds]] Don't lie to me. The law of euthanasia, the law of day registration so that the workers of this country will not be exploited and the reform of the Law of Criminal Prosecution so that there will not be corrupts who leave from rositas as, by the way, that gentleman with whom you also agreed in Murcia, the other Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] As you have been blocking this process all these months, yesterday the Socialist Group brought before the Constitutional Court an application for amparo for the systematic blocking of the legislative initiatives taken into consideration by the majority of the members of this House, who are nothing but the legitimate representatives of Spanish citizens. That is why we have come to the Constitutional Court against what the People's and Citizens' Party is doing, which is nothing more than preventing us from working in this House. Finally, Mr Rivera - so that you too try to stop lying at some point - the 200 million of the State Pact against Gender Violence you pulled out as if it were a flag: we have achieved 200 million. Do you know what's going on? They didn't enable them, they weren't anywhere. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] They did not appear, and it had to be a socialist government and vice president Carmen Calvo who put those 200 million on the table and transferred them to the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] That is why those funds will now come to those who need them, who are women victims of violence and those whom you have abandoned, the workers who serve these women. Now I do. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u123	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Married, I repeat that you have reduced your entire political discourse and your understanding of politics to insult and lie. Suddenly - it must be that they have everything planned to go out in some media and throughout tonight in some of these ultra-conservative chatter - now it turns out that, as the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have not applauded the President of Peru at the time when he considered the right we had to applaud, we do not agree with the approach that the Government of Peru, and also the Government of Spain, is taking in relation to the crisis in Venezuela. I think it's childish, Mr. Married, but it's childish. The President of Peru has clearly stated the position of the Government of Peru and has underlined and applauded the coincidence in the approach on the crisis in Venezuela with the Government of Spain. I understand that he has to twist the issues and also try to take them a little to his approaches, but it is treacherous and twists the reality so much that in the end it falls into ridicule. Mr. Married, I say so with all due respect. The position of the Government of Spain - I have said it many times and I repeat it again, more than anything to make it clear to you, if you do not yet have it - is the position that the European Union has maintained throughout this crisis. It is the creation of an international contact group with countries of the European Union and also Latin America, in which we are trying to find a political solution to the social, economic, humanitarian and political crisis in Venezuela. Therefore, Your Honor, you can twist anything you want, but when I was the leader of the opposition, the Socialist Party did not recognize the May presidential elections, nor did it recognize Mr Maduro as the new president of Venezuela on 10 January. What we have done from the very first moment on the various Foreign Affairs Councils of the European Union - I said this in my first speech and I stressed it again in my second speech; and, of course, you have once again lied in your first or second speech, because you did not mention it - is to approve the tightening of sanctions to the leaders of the Maduro regime. Mr Casado, these issues are adopted by the Council for Foreign Affairs of the European Union and that is what this government has done from the very beginning. I have also mentioned this in my first speech, but it must be that you are attentive to other issues and not to this one. Therefore, the position of the Government of Spain with regard to Venezuela is clear, it has been appreciated thus by the Venezuelan opposition, it has also been appreciated by the Lima Group and it has also been appreciated by the European Union, because many countries have followed the line of Spain. What is more, the reflection that I would like to make on this House and, above all, on the main opposition party is: how is it possible that I can agree with Merkel, who belongs to the family of the European People's Party, or with Macron, who belongs to his own liberal family, on the question of Venezuela and, instead, here the People's Party and Citizens reproach me for something that is precisely applauding me by the President of the French Republic and the German Chancellor Merkel? I understand that you must criticize the Government of Spain and criticize me for any reason, but there must be some truth in what you say. They don't lie in the brazen way that they do, because in the end it's you, Mr. Married. I'm telling you with all due respect. With regard to economic policy, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group responded. I'll just tell Mr. Rivera one thing. Mr. Rivera, if you'll excuse me for a second... Mr Rivera, do not criticize the deputy secretary general of the Socialist Party. Let me tell you that your comment has been tremendously macho. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, it's been tremendously sexist. Then I'll comment on something again, Mr. Rivera. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u125	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u126	Mr Casado, during the negotiations that have taken place for the formation of the Government of Andalusia between you, Rivera and the ultra-right, I have said on many occasions, in public and also in the parliamentary seat, that I believe you are wrong. You consider that you are going to moderate the far right in this country and, in fact, what we are seeing - and this is a good example of this - is that who is radicalizing the positions of the People's Party and Citizens is the far right. Mr Married, I must say, with all due respect, but also with all conviction and determination, that you have done what you have done, to justify your pact with the far right in Andalusia, to trivialize gender-based violence, and I stress gender-based violence. [[Mr Casado Blanco and Mrs Montserrat Montserrat make negative signs]] Yes, you have described gender-based violence as domestic violence, as domestic violence, as violence that was among the four walls of a household. That is unacceptable, because gender-based violence is a matter of state, of society, and is not in the family. [[applause]] That is the great progress of the Law on Combating Gender Violence. What you've done has been frivolize and trivialize... [[Mr. White Casado Makes Negative Signs]] Yes, they've banalized. They have trivialized so much that they cannot come here now to give lessons or to say that the People's Party has fought for women's rights and freedoms. [[Protests]] But if you appealed to the Constitutional Court the Law on Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy and even the Law on Equality that passed a previous Administration of the Socialist Party! [[Applauds]] I don't know who advises you, Mr. Casado. Even this Government released the 200 million euros of the State Pact against Gender Violence just to reach the administration and power. You say, Mr Casado, that you have loyally extended your hand to this government on matters of state, and you often refer to that meeting we had in August. At that meeting I offered him four covenants of state, Mr. Married. I offered him a state pact for migration, I offered him a state pact on Catalonia, on science and on the infrastructure of this country. You told me not to the four covenants I offered you. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: I said yes to two]] You have broken the necessary consensus in immigration policy; you have broken the necessary and essential consensus in the state policy that has to do with Catalonia. Mr. Casado has uttered a series of insults, today, even Mr. García Aegean has called me undocumented, entrepreneurship... In short, all these epithets are given to me by the People's Party, from beating to illegitimate president. Mr. Casado, you gave me a whole cataract of insults at that famous press conference, which will pass on to the annals of history as one of the most entrepreneurial things that have occurred in Spanish politics. [[A Member of Parliament: But what does he say!]] Mr. Casado, about Catalonia, I'd ask you for some solidarity. We have ruled Spain for nine months. You came to the government in 2011, I think I remember. Since 2011 we had a percentage of independenceists in Catalonia less than 15% and now it is at 47%; there has been a unilateral declaration of independence for the first time in our country's democratic history; there have been two illegal referendums; there has been a unilateral breakdown of legality in Catalonia by a parliamentary majority on 6 and 7 September 2017, and what happened on 1 October. Where was the Socialist Party? The Socialist Party was on the side of the government, supporting the state, because we were very aware of the state crisis we had, of the constitutional crisis, Mr Casado. Be in solidarity with this government, but not with this government because you want to do it with me, because I ask you to do it with me, be in solidarity with this government because you believe in the general interest of Spain. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: With Torra?-Applause]] No, no, Mr. Married; that's right. You ask me if I'm going to defend the Constitution or if I'm not going to defend the Constitution. Look, Mr. Married, you still have a long way to go. When I was leader of the opposition I supported the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution in Catalonia, and that, Your Honor, had a cost, and the government knew that the Socialist Party was taking on that cost. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: Pardons]] We assumed that, Mr Casado, because we understood that there was a greater benefit and interest, which was to guarantee the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. Therefore, all I ask of you, Mr Casado, and the People's Party, is that, after 28 April, you do what the Socialist Party did when it was in the opposition: to support and support the Government's action in relation to Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera says that it is we who place the health cord on the Citizens' Parliamentary Group! Yeah, yeah, sure. Did I hear you right? Is that what you say, Mr. Rivera? But let's see, if you've said you don't want to compromise with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party or with me! Neither with the organization nor with me, he doesn't want to. Of course, you give lessons in constitutionalism. It seems that the Constitution did not exist until you came to this House, Mr Rivera; and that, therefore, the Constitution can only be read in one way, which is the one that dictates to us and that which Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group tell us. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Or like Torra]] Well, look, no, Mr. Rivera. Spain and the Constitution are read in many ways, and I cannot give the Socialist Party or my person any lesson in commitment to the Spanish Constitution or the defence of Spain. [[Greetings.- Mr. Rivera Díaz: With Torra, yes]] We, of course, are going to reach out to all parliamentarians, and also to yours, Mr Rivera, because we have a vision of inclusive democracy, and not excluding it as you do. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Neither do you.-Mr. Díaz Gómez: Do you agree with Bildu?]] Forgive one thing, Mr Rivera, this party before you formed your party has had people who have died as a result of defending freedom and democracy in the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] A little respect, Mr Rivera, a little respect; respect is what I ask of you. I'm just asking for respect, Mr. Rivera. I ask you to respect, to be tolerant, to see democracy as something inclusive, not exclusive, to consider that the Constitution has many ways to read, and that the one that exists, the one that you read, can be perfectly complementary to what we do. We are going to reach out to you and all the parliamentary groups for the benefit of the general interest and for the benefit of Spain. If you want to put sanitary cords on the Spanish Socialist Workers Party you are already saying with whom you want to ally, which is with the far right. And as I said in my first speech, Mr Rivera, with the far right you are not going anywhere. Mr Rivera, you have been answered by Mrs Lastra in relation to the commitment of the Government of Spain to gender-based violence, and I will simply say one question: Lessons from you and your parliamentary group on gender equality, none. You and the People's Parliamentary Group have vetoed and blocked parliamentaryly the fact that a law on equal work and a law on combating the wage gap cannot be passed here. That is a consequence of you and of you, Mr Rivera. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[Applauds]] To Mr Bustinduy, I just want to say that in relation to Venezuela I have responded earlier. I will tell you one thing, I am concerned and very much that both you and I have referred to a possible military intervention in Venezuela, but that the People's Party and Citizens have said absolutely nothing. The commitment of the Government of Spain is yours. We will not support any military intervention in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] That's right, we're going to support the call for elections as soon as possible in Venezuela. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández speaks words that are not perceived]] To Mr Tardà I simply say that I do not question at all his commitment to democracy, to freedoms, and to the republic, as you have conceived it. The reflection I have given you is that you at least apologize; that you simply apologize to all those exiled Republicans who were insulted by independence groups on Sunday, Your Honor. I simply ask you to convey the apologies of Catalan independence, in the face of something that seems to me to be a tremendous injustice with history and with people who also left Spain 80 years ago as a result of the Franco dictatorship. Finally, I wanted to thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for all the work they have done in these nine months. You have been eighty-four Members of Parliament and you have led an exemplary government action. Thanks to you we have managed to improve the lives of citizens. Thanks to you we have managed to regain the universality of public health. Thanks to you we have recovered or reversed, rather, the educational cuts. We have launched the State Pact against Gender Violence. We have recognized the right to vote for a hundred thousand people with disabilities for the next elections on 28 April. We have done many things for the benefit of the social majority of our country, and I am convinced that from 28 April we will not be eighty-four, but many more to make this country a better country. So thank you so much for the work you've done over these nine months. [[Applauds]] And to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before to two Members who had announced that they had withdrawn from political life, I just want to wish you luck personally, and although we have deep discrepancies and deep differences with some of you, you have all my respect and personal consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u127	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. We begin with the question of Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, to the President of the Government. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u128	Mr. Sánchez, we want to ask you about the partisan use that you make of state institutions, something that we have seen throughout the entire legislature and that goes from the use that you make of the king in your book, through the CIS; by Spanish Television, which made a retransmission on your book of eighty-four minutes, or by the roll attempt that you have made in the Senate by not appearing and trying to bypass it with the Budget Stability Act and approving the budgets. By the way, the European Commission's half-yearly report has just come out, which puts on the ground all the lies that have just been said about unemployment, about debt, about deficit and about lack of reforms. I am referring to the institutional use he has made of the Moncloa when it comes to holding meetings or meetings of the Socialist Party there; the use he has made of the National Nuclear Security Council trying to change it for the gatera with deputies of the Socialist Party and Podemos; the use he has made or intends to make of the Permanent Chamber as well. In this regard, we already say that we will legislate so that nothing that is not of urgent necessity and is related to an electoral programme, as you intend to do, cannot be approved in the Permanent Chamber. I also refer to the use he makes of the appeal to dialogue. You have been a blocker of three legislatures: you blocked the six-month one, in which you refused to support by your abstention, until you took away your party, an investiture by the party that had received majority confidence; you dropped the second legislature to two years simply with lies during the motion of censure, and now you do so in this one because we have discovered the pacts with the independenceists. Therefore, that the creator of the 'no is no' comes to give us lessons of dialogue or moderation sincerely is something that leads to laughter. You have tried to implement the appeal to the law and the Constitution; you have just done so right now. He tells us why we're dealing with the ultra-right and you're dealing with the ultra-left or the Torra deal. He says we answer about Venezuela, but you do not answer these three questions: if you are going to pardon, if you are going to allow that of the Pedralbes rapporteur again, and if you are going to re-agree with the independenceists. Mr Sánchez, you are also instrumentalizing women, and so far we have arrived. [[Rumors]] We will not tolerate the fact that we continue to speak on behalf of women or of what each of us views within the law. And in this case, you are wrong, because what we said is that we are against gender-based violence and domestic violence. [[Rumors]] We even quantify help for children and elderly people who may suffer domestic violence from their caregivers or family members within the home, as we did with the Support Plan for Children and Adolescents. We are not going to tolerate the 8M and electoral campaign being hot, facing men with women, facing political parties in the worst social scourge in Spain and in which we must all go hand in hand. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Sánchez, I wish you not only luck, but the best in your future political life outside the Moncloa and I hope this campaign is white gloves and not... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u129	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Let the People's Party and your person, Mr Casado, tell me that we are instrumentalizing public institutions when we come from a government that has used reserved funds to obstruct the judicial investigation into the irregular financing of Gürtel in its party, it seems to me that it is out of place; it seems to me that it is out of reality; it seems to me that you still have a lot to learn and assume your responsibilities in the opposition. Mr. Married, I believe that what has happened, for example, during these nine months at the Bureau of Congress, where what you have done has been to use your majority, together with the Citizens Parliamentary Group, to veto many of the laws or block the processing of fundamental laws for the social welfare of citizens, leaves very clear who has used the institutions for their benefit. You have even banned budgets from being processed with public deficit and public debt targets much more in line with our country's economic and social reality. What you did was precisely block, as I reminded you, an association with hundreds of thousands of signatures that was recently gathered here with the various parliamentary groups. It has hindered and prevented the recognition of the right to euthanasia in our country simply because of a spurious or partisan interest that has nothing to do with the general interest, Mr Casado. Beyond their lies, their insults, which I am sure you will continue to utter over the next few weeks in front of the campaign, I will simply wish something for next April 28th. I do not know whether or not you will follow as leader of the opposition, of the People's Party, what I do hope and desire, and that is what I am going to ask the Spaniards, is that on 28 April the lie and the rift will leave political life in this country, and that will pass through your defeat in the elections, Mr. [[rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u131	What patience! - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF WORK PERFORMED BY HIS EXECUTIVE? [[File number 180/000937]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u132	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, also to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u133	Thank you very much, President. Mr Sánchez, Mr President, the question is very simple, very short: are you proud of the management of your Government over the last few months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u135	The answer is as simple as short: Yes. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u137	Okay. I thank him for his shortness and sincerity. I don't know what to tell you, Mr. Sánchez, basically because you started out in such a way - I've said it publicly - very beautiful receiving the Aquarius in Valencia and ended up kidnapping the Open Arms in Barcelona. You started out in a very beautiful way by agglutinating 180 of us all to drive from Moncloa to Rajoy and everything he represented, and you ended up agreeing with the PP that Rajoy, Florentino Pérez and Cosidó do not appear on the Commission of Inquiry into the Illegal Financing of the People's Party. So I'm surprised you're proud. I understand, because I saw you in that interview with Évole, that you started very well and I honestly believe that you didn't end up so well. We voted for the motion of censure for free, for free. [[A honourable Member: Well! Okay!]] Calm down. We voted for a free spending ceiling, even though we knew that these people in the Senate with their absolute majority would carry it; we voted for twenty-seven royal decrees, and you still throw into our heads supposed budgets that are the tables of Moses, budgets that put more money into the Valley of the Fallen, the monarchy and the defense. Simply the question I ask you, Mr Sánchez, is what PSOE is going to be the next legislature, whether you want to govern or not to govern courageously if you can do so. What PSOE wants to be: Tapias and Lastra or Borrell and Lamban. We have it very clear: we will be the Republican Left of Macià, of Companies, of Junqueras and of Tardà, with which I have had the enormous honour of sharing three years in this House. We'll be a dam, a wall in front of fascism. The question is, what will you be? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u138	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u139	Mr Rufián, of course I want to say, first of all, that I am very proud of the work we have done as a government during these nine months. If one looks at each and every thing that has been done by the departments, we see that it is, for example, the recovery of the universality of public health; it is, for example, the creation of the macroprudential authority, which is important to avoid future financial crises; it is, for example, the approval of the Energy and Climate Plan or the abolition of the sun tax. This is, for example, the defence that has been made of the primary sector. It is, for example, the creation of a plan to combat job insecurity and decent employment. There is the reversal of educational cuts and the preliminary draft law of a new education law. There is the impetus to the Mediterranean corridor, which is fundamental to our country's competitiveness. There is also the proposal made in the State General Budgets to create a new taxation according to the 21st century, where large corporations pay more taxes than they are paying right now. It is, for example, the defence that has been made of foot soldiers, to say the least in much more colloquial terms, by the Minister of Defence. Or many of the issues that the Minister of Justice has led, linked to new rights of persons with disabilities or what the Vice-President of the Government of Spain has done in relation to the State Pact against Gender Violence and so many other things. [[Rumors]] What do I want to tell you with this, Mr. Rufián? That we, logically, have done many things that we are proud of, but it is clear that there are many others that we have not been able to do. We have not been able to do so because, firstly, there has not been a progressive parliamentary majority in this House to take them forward and, secondly, because there has been a majority in the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, the People's Party and Citizens, who have blocked many of those laws, of those legislative procedures that would have meant good news for the social majority, both in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole. With this, we are very proud of the action of this government and we will be even more proud after 28 April, because we will continue to rule and - I hope - with larger seats since the socialist bench. From there, we are going to reach out to all parliamentary groups, because right now Spain needs to demand the useful policy, it does not need to confront the Spaniards again; it needs to unite the Spaniards around the great challenges that our country has, which is education, which is the labour market, which is the environmental challenge, which is the support of our welfare state and which is gender equality. About those debates... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE NEW MONTHS MAKE TO THE FRONT OF HIS GOVERNMENT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000941]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u141	He also asked the President of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u142	Mr President, what is your assessment of your new months at the head of the government?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u143	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u144	Positive, Mr. Esteban, positive.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u146	Mr President, as you point out, I am not going to deny it; on the contrary, I am going to say that there have been many good things during your government, but I am going to remind you of things that have not been done because there was no will on the part of the Socialist Group or of the government, for example, because they had already passed and were in the process of making a presentation. The Official Secrets Act: there has not been enough courage to face it and modify it. The Law gags: we were already in a very advanced discussion and a majority could have been generated to have taken it forward. The law of universal jurisdiction in the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary: it could have been carried out also because there were a few majorities, and I think they have entered many doubts; and now come the haste, decree, haste and running, we are going to present matters that, by the way, we do not know or know exactly what they are going to consist of; of course, if certain matters were to be taken out by decree it could have been done before and not done now running and at the last hour. I think it is important to comply with the agreements and I would like to remind you of one that your Government has agreed with my parliamentary group. In particular, the competition for traffic to Navarre and which, in addition, you solemnized at the gates of the Moncloa Palace with the president of the Navarro Government. We are still waiting for that, an absolutely constitutional agreement. You gave your word, and you gave it solemnly. Today the spokesman for the Navarro Government, María Solano, said that it is possible and that there is time. I, too, say so, but the word, the agreements with this group and the agreements with the Navarro Government and the President must be complied with. You know that within the agreements that we have reached there are still many things that can be done. You yourself have said that a functioning Government must continue to govern and must continue to administer and comply with the law. Well, there's time. Agreements are important in politics; the word, too, and the word is demonstrated by doing things. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, first of all, I would like to thank both you and your parliamentary group for the help they have provided to this Government in a multitude of royal decree-laws and also for the support they have given so that this motion of censure can be brought to fruition and reality. From there, this has been the first Government that, in a matter of eight months, to put it in very colloquial terms, has blacked out a letter, a road map of transfers from the Statute of Guernica to the Basque Government. I believe that this also deserves recognition from the Basque Nationalist Party, with which we also govern in Euskadi. With regard to the transfer of traffic in Navarre, I would like to say that the Government of Spain wants to comply with that; obviously things are not as simple from a technical point of view, but the compromise has it and of course we want to comply with it. That's what I told President Uxue Barkos, and that's what I told you. With respect to other laws - you have mentioned for example the I have to tell you that, for example, the issue of the law has not been so much due to a lack of will on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or this Government; both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior - now we do not have him here with us - are very aware of the pressure that I have put on them so that they can be amended throughout this legislature. Unfortunately, we have met with the absolute misunderstanding and lack of - let's say - fair play of the People's Party and Citizens' Party in the Bureau of Congress, but I hope that in the next legislature that can be solved and we can repeal the law gags and reform the law of universal jurisdiction. From there, Your Honor, I believe that the balance sheet of the Government of Spain is positive, it is reasonable, with eighty-four Members we have forged alliances and we have built bridges to the left and to the right. I believe that it is good for the country to move forward with this progress, and I believe that at the end of the debate on 28 April it will not be so much a matter of acronyms or political parties; here we are talking a lot about what coalitions will be able to do from 28 April. I see things much easier, much clearer, especially after seeing the photo of Columbus Square. Here it is not a question of acronyms or parties, it is of two models of society, of a Spain in which we all fit or a Spain in which only Mr Casado, Mr Rivera and Mr Abascal fit. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u149	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT ABOUT THEIR NEW GOVERNMENT MONSERRAT? [[File number 180/000945]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u150	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mrs Dolors Montserrat from the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, what account have you made of your nine months of government?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u153	Thank you, President. The work of the Government is in the Official State Gazette and in a very important part in improving the lives of many men and women in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u155	Thank you, President. Your Honor, no one in nine months had ever done so much harm to Spain. Your passage through the Government is summed up in three sentences: you are not reliable, you are the Government of treason and you are the Government of lies. You came to Moncloa with Torra, Rufián and Otegi and you finish the legislature with a photo that will always haunt you, the photo of the betrayal of Spain, the photo of Pedralbes. But you came to Moncloa promising moral regeneration and transparency. You lied to us: there is the president who has never given explanations about his doctoral thesis or plagiarism. [[Rumors]] We also have ministers with scandals and instrumental societies...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u157	... So you don't have to pay taxes. And with a CIS and a Spanish Radio and Television at the exclusive service of the Socialist Party. But I'm going to tell you more, you came to the government pretending to be the most feminist government in history, and we've not only had to suffer a minister Delgado, the most homophobic and the most macho we've ever had, who is still sitting next to her, and she's the one of guaranteed success, but on page 71 of Pedro Sánchez's Resistance Manual accepts as true that the audience on a television show is older and uncultivated women. Mrs Calvo, it is very serious that a president and a minister of a Spanish government think, say and write a macho barbarity like this. And I haven't heard them, I haven't heard them from you, women of the Socialist Group, and you know why? Because the feminists of the Socialist Group are banners and mouthpieces. You, equal lessons to the People's Party never, ever! [[Applauds]] Relax members and members of the PSOE, I don't say it, Peter says it, Delgado says it. I'll tell you more. You will agree with me, Mrs Calvo, that your government's account is not Tezanos or Lozano who saves you. You know why? Because in Spain we need a reliable government that does not lie to us, that does not betray us. The Spaniards need more Married and less Sanchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u158	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montserrat, nine months ago you started in loop and ended in loop; literally in loop. Look, as the president has said on several occasions today, they have installed politics in lies and tension. So I have every right in the world to ask you, who sat in a government, had they agreed to the referendum on October 1st? Because they couldn't stop him. I have every right in the world to think that there was a hidden covenant and that you agreed to it. [[Rumors]] But look, remembering that you were Minister of Equality and I am too, tell your leader that women have the right - right, recognized by international agencies - to have control over our motherhood, it is called the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, the right to control when we are or are not mothers. [[Applauds]] Tell your leader you're not reliable, ask Congressman Maroto. When a pact of gender-based violence is made against that scourge and it is a state pact, it cannot be appropriated. You are a disloyalty and a robbery in politics absolutely lame! Tell him. Tell him that all the important equality laws of this country had socialist signatures and that you all brought them to the Constitutional Court. But tell him one thing too: some men behave so badly, so badly, so badly that they become murderers. Don't drag the right-wing to question this, don't become gender-based violence negators because they're going to be answered by women on the streets, freely. This 8 March, the next, the next and the next, because you have not yet learned, policies of equality between men and women are mandatory in democracy, and stopping gender-based violence does not require a single more chance on concepts. Ask Congressman Maroto, Mr Casado, to ask him, because women are going to answer him freely, in a different and forceful way on 8 March. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u160	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, CAN WE IN COMMON CAN IN MAREA FORMULA TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THE GOVERNMENT THAT HAS COMPLETED THE COMMITMENTS WITH WHICH THE MOTION OF Censorship WAS SUBMITTED? [[File number 180/000938]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u161	Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u162	Thank you. Do you believe that the Government has fulfilled the commitments with which it presented itself to the motion of censure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martín, we have fulfilled quite a few of the commitments that we have made and that President Sánchez made in this House, in complex circumstances of course, but in a very reasonable way, within a very short period of time and with absolutely unprecedented political circumstances in the parliamentary life of this country, and you know them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u166	After months of meetings and negotiations, let us say clearly the following Mrs Calvo: your Government did not want to understand that what led to the Moncloa were not the successes of the PSOE, a party responsible for some of the biggest cuts in rights that have taken place during the crisis, such as the express eviction law or 135, which by the way you voted for yourself when you were a congresswoman. We told him during the motion of censure and we repeat it today: you came to the government thanks to the push of a lot of people, who managed to have a political majority in this House that would end bipartisanism and start to leave behind the terrible legacy of the People's Party. That has been the thrust of my parliamentary group, which has been left behind in order to get the best measures out of this legislature. Because during these eight months we have seen you too many times more pending from the spotlights and the cameras than to approve courageous measures that will improve people's lives. They have lacked courage to fulfill their commitment to allow municipalities to put an end to abusive rent increases for fear of Blackstone. They have lacked courage and even resorted to falsehoods when their spokesman minister said that the rental decree we did not approve would have avoided the brutal evictions of Argumosa. You should be ashamed to lie like that a few hours after the negotiating table refused to paralyze evictions to ensure the rehousing of families like those who ended up on the street that day! And they also lacked courage to continue dialogue with Catalonia for fear this time of the photo of the Columbus trio. We deeply regret that not only have they not dared, but everyone knows now, also now by letter, that what they want is to return to 2016 and to the pact of the embrace that made Mr Rivera vice president. Are there so many internal and external pressures? So many are the bonds with the financial powers and the state? Explain it, Mrs Calvo, because citizens deserve to know that on April 28 there is only one guarantee of change, that of Unidad Podemos, that of En Comú Podem, and not because I say it, but because that is the policy that has always guided the government that we lead in Barcelona, courage. From there we come, that's the courage we learned in the PAH, which will be expressed on the streets on March 8, the one of pensioners, the one of taxi drivers and, in general, that of all those people who have never resigned. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martín, we are a realistic and courageous government, and we have shown that. Look, we thank you for the part of the work we've done with you, which has been quite; with you, with the communists. Mr. Casado told you, he's already gone. He has said 14 times that they are communists in a boast of democracy and commendable modernity! Even President Adolfo Suárez realized that forty years ago without any problem and legalized the Communist Party. We have done everything we could, everything we knew that was important in nine months, in a completely autonomous and responsible way. And you also know what we think? That the General Budgets - which with 1.3% could not continue to move along the path we wanted - planned a very important part of what we wanted, we want and we have the impression that, if the citizens want, we will continue to do. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES YOU THINK THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NATION AND THE GOVERNMENT OF AN AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY NEED FOR EXTERNAL INTERMEDIATION? [[File number 180/000954]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u169	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal of the Citizen Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, you have had a certain problem trying to define the figure of a mediator and I have reminded, in the face of the problems you have had, a philosopher who had a similar problem explaining the central concept of his system, which was Jacques Derrida and deconstruction. So, what he did was he wrote a letter to a friend of his in which he explained extensively what was not deconstruction. You can find it on the web if you are looking for: letter to a Japanese friend. Better to say what it wasn't than what it was, because look what you've come to say from the day that Republican Left announced that it was fully amending their budgets, the next day. Iceta said he was a notary at breakfast time. You, at four o'clock, after eating, said you were a coordinator or a rapporteur. In the Moncloa, at nine o'clock in the night he was called neutral and at ten o'clock, facilitator. In the Senate you said that it was someone who could take note, who could call, someone who understands the territorial crisis well, a figure similar to the rapporteur of a party congress - all of which you said - someone who understands politics - that is, someone who is not alien to what happens in Catalonia, the rapporteur is something like a figure who is going to help work. And all of this comes in half-coiled. Neither someone outside the institutions nor neutral nor anything, you said, a person of trust; it is no one who comes to mediate, someone who is already there. I'd like to go deeper into the concept. Could you do that, please? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, with that exegesis you've done, I think you have it clear enough. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u173	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u174	It's clear that you're the one who doesn't make it clear. [[Applauds]] And since we are talking about philosophers, I am going to quote another, Guillermo de Ockham, who said: Entia am not multiplying praeter necessitatem. So what need did you have to create one more entity? I tell you, the need comes from point three of the twenty-one points of infamy, where it says: an international mediation is necessary, which must facilitate an equal negotiation. And in the end, it turns out that the international mediation was going to be that of a gentleman called Innerarity, who is from Bilbao. Nationalists consider it an international mediation, yes, surely. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u175	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Girauta, I will tell you very briefly what this Government has done and then I will refresh you what you have done. This Government has merely constituted the bilateral, which is within the lawfulness of this country, and nothing more. But I'm going to tell you what you and your party have done: win a few elections and literally cross hands. They haven't done anything. They have not gone to the Political Parties Committee of the Catalan Parliament, they have not wanted to help in the Commission that exists in this House to evaluate the territorial model; nothing. They have limited themselves to jailing Catalonia throughout Spain for political revenue. They've ended up in the most horrific ridiculous in the Waterloo district, haven't they? Is this district coming in? [[Laughter]] Because for this government in Waterloo there's no one to say anything to. But you have gone to say it. [[Applauds]] And finally they're going to round it up with your party leader in Catalonia running away and you seem to too. For at this time many men and women from this country in Catalonia and the rest of Spain will be told that, with that contribution, we will fix it soon. Soon, but it will be another government, of course without you and without making the ridiculously terrible thing that you have done using Catalonia in the rest of Spain exclusively to have votes because you have no other speech. What would be yours without flaunting Catalonia against the rest of the Spaniards! [[Mr. Vice-President, Prendes Prendes, takes the Chair.]] - of Mrs Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which forms the Minister of Economy and Enterprise: Have you thought about resigning before the breakdown of your accounts and those of the Lord Sánchez? [[File number 180/000934]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u177	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mr Jaime de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, it has always been said that the Budget Act marks the difference between the success and political failure of a finance minister. In your case, Mrs Montero, the failure has been overwhelming. He has not been able to get the first accounts out of his mandate and, worse, no one has believed his stories: neither the European Union nor the International Monetary Fund nor the OECD nor the AIReF nor the Bank of Spain nor even this House. No one has believed your accounts, Mrs. Montero. As things stand, I ask you: Have you thought about resigning? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u180	I will answer you very briefly, Mr De Olano. Obviously not. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. De Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montero, I see that neither modesty nor eloquence are virtues that adorn you. But let me give you some information on what the President has described this morning as the good work of this government: they have failed to meet the public deficit target; they have failed to meet the public debt target; they have failed to meet the economic growth target, which they have had to change up to twice in six months; the trade deficit is the largest in the last eight years; the volume of exports has fallen for the first time in nine years; business creation has fallen by 20% and business closure has risen by 7%, Minister. The delay in the public sector has increased again for the first time in six years, Your Honor. The PSOE has returned and, as it has returned, public administrations pay worse than before. Finally, Mrs Montero, job creation. Since Mr Sánchez and you have arrived in Moncloa, more than 33 000 Spaniards have been unemployed, of whom 20 000 are women. You say you are a very feminist government, but the reality of the facts is that you, beyond grabbing the banner, are sending 120 women to unemployment every day. That is the way you have to defend women: to send more than 120 women a day to unemployment. And this, unfortunately, we already know and remember more and more at the beginning of that crisis that you denied and that the Spaniards had to pay, and we paid very dearly. We always said that your General State Budgets were the bill you endorsed to pay for Mr. Sánchez's election campaign, an invoice that is now passed back to us in the form of a royal decree. But, Your Honor, giving what you don't have is not social, it's socialist, and giving what you know you won't have is sowing the seed of the next recession, and that's also very socialist. You know that, but you don't care, because you put the interests of one person, Mr Sánchez, before the general interests of the remaining 47 million. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. De Olano, I was told of anything less eloquent. I don't think I'm a person who characterizes me for that. I say this to add to all the lies that you have said throughout your talk about economic measures. But what characterizes the People's Party, as always, when it does not rule, is a Spain in black and white. You always like to speak ill of Spain when you are in opposition to harm the interests of Spain. That is what happens when they talk about unemployment, deficit or economic growth, because the data contradict their truth, the truth that only exists for the People's Party. Mr De Olano, no one resigns when he fulfils his duty, no one resigns when he raises the interprofessional minimum wage, when he is trying to revalue pensions according to the CPI, when he is giving the largest shares in scholarships, in dependence, in public policies, those policies that you consider an expense, a waste. He has said it again: you continue to throw away expenses that only serve you for the election campaign. You said that, Mr De Olano, I will not refer it to you, you see it in the Journal of sittings itself. But are you going to talk about resignations, you, when there was a sentence here in which for profit the People's Party was condemned, in which the courts, not this party, said that Mr. Rajoy had no credibility in his testimony, and Mr. Rajoy did not resign, remained in his job? [[Applauds]] You talk about political responsibilities and this morning we saw Mr. Cosidó here accompanying the joint session of the President of Peru, Mr. Cosidó, who boasted in his party's wasap of being manipulating justice by running it through the back door. Are you going to talk about resigning this party, Mr. De Olano, from the People's Party? No, this Government is fulfilling its obligation and will continue to do so because it will continue to govern, and if not, Mr. De Olano, we will see it after 28 April. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CUSTOMS CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DOES YOUR GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLY WITH THE COMMITMENTS OF THE ADDENDED CHANGE GALLEY? [[File number 180/000956]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u186	Questions by Mr Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u187	Minister, do you believe that the government complied with Galicia and the social majorities of the entire state?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u189	Thank you. Mr Gómez-Reino, I think this is not the first time that you have addressed this question to the Government, but it is the first time that I have the opportunity to answer you as Minister of Finance. The Minister of Territorial Policy has already moved on previous occasions - and I say it again - the Government's commitment to the Galician agenda of change. I do it from my conviction. Therefore, the answer is affirmative, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u191	Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, after more than forty years of bipartisanship, this group, Podemos, United Left, the Communes and the Mareas, we stand in this House as the clear expression of the boredom before its systematic claudications. Everyone, the whole progressive citizenship of this country, knew that one could not trust the Socialist Party, that they say one thing and often do the opposite, that usually shakes their pulse when one has to face the powers and the powerful. In this House, thanks to the work of this group and particularly of the Galician Members and Members of this group, initiatives have been approved, for example, for the regeneration of the rivers, for the forgiveness of the debt of the port of A Coruña, to support the dairy sector, the naval sector, the fishing sector, to put an end to the fires, so that once and for all the Pazo de Meirás will return to Galician citizenship. But what's going on? That the Government has not implemented them, that its Government has not implemented these initiatives either. We are the opposition; you have been the government. We and we have done our job, but what about you? You have been a magnificent electoral campaign cabinet, but in many cases you have not wanted to be a government. The only progressive budget that we have managed to build in this House has not worked hard enough to bring it forward and has again been closed to pressures and to electoral interests and calculations. It is that you have not complied with Galicia, but you have not complied with the social majorities of the whole state. When more than six million people suffer from energy poverty, and neither a People's Party government nor a Socialist Party government lowers the price of light, it is the bank and it is the electric. When five million pensioners are in social exclusion, you give up updating pensions to the CPI by law and give up reforming the reform of the People's Pension Party. When half of the wage-earner population is precarious, and a Socialist Party government eludes the repeal of labour reform, it is the employer who is in charge. Lords of the Socialist Party and all citizens, from April 29 we and we are the guarantee of moving from words to deeds. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u193	Thank you. Mr Gómez-Kingdom, I think you are aware that much of the issues on the Galician agenda of change were reflected in the budgetary agreement. [[Mr. Gómez-Kingdom Varela makes negative signs]] I say this because it seems to me that pensions were collected in the budget agreement and were on the agenda; the issues relating to dependency are... [[Mr. Gómez-Kingdom Varela makes affirmative signs]] Now he says yes, let's see if he clears up with yourself because then we won't have the capacity to dialogue. I believe that many issues were raised in the draft budgets, a draft budgets that we have agreed with you and therefore many of the issues - not all - were covered there. You also know that I myself held a meeting with your parliamentary group, in particular with En Marea, to transfer you that during the parliamentary process some of the investments you were demanding for Galicia could also be studied, dialogued and agreed. I therefore do not understand your speech, Mr Gómez-Reino. I have the impression that many times, when it is already time for the elections, every political formation is gathered and pulled to its side and becomes a bold weapon of projects that we build together. I am proud of the draft budgets presented in this House, which was ultimately rejected by the coalition between the right-wing and the independenceist groups. I have not been impressed by your statement that you are proud of this budgetary agreement, but I believe that many people in your group do because it solved everyday problems of people, problems of the day-to-day and therefore aspirations of this people. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us move forward, if we continue to govern, with the draft budgets, regardless of whether some of the aspirations that you or the rest of the groups could contemplate can be taken up in the way of the amendments, good budgets for this country and budgets that you too would have to be proud of. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL MARIA JESUS BONILLA DOMIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT VALUATION DOES YOUR MANAGEMENT MAKE TO THE MINISTRY'S FRONT? [[File number 180/000946]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u195	Questions to the Minister of Justice. Question by María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Delgado, what assessment does you make of your management in the ministry?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs Bonilla. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Surely my answer or assessment of management in the ministry does not matter very much. We have already heard Mrs Montserrat; you come here to insult, you come to lie and I can only tell you that we have been concerned about citizenship. I am reasonably satisfied with all that we have done thinking about the citizens and with the little time we have had to achieve the objectives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Bonilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. I see, Mrs. Delgado, you haven't made much of a balance, but I'm going to help you do it myself. It's as simple as making a story, telling objective things and looking at yourself in the mirror. What would you think if a minister of Mrs May had stopped defending the jurisdictional sovereignty of your country and left the judge who was defending you, as you did with Judge Llarena? Or what would you think if a minister of Mr. Macron knew of a possible crime with minors and, as a prosecutor, did not intervene? Or also, what would you think if that same minister were aware of the creation of a prostitution network to generate extortion in businessmen and politicians as well as, as a prosecutor, not to intervene and also to say:'success assured'? [[The Minister of Justice, Montero Quadrado: That I will not allow]] [[Minister of Justice, Square Motero: No, Mrs. Bonilla, don't pass]] Or rather, what would you think if a minister from Mrs Merkel stopped the head of the State's Attorney's Office from refusing to sign an indictment that would remove the crime of rebellion, as happened here? Also, what do you think of a government that when a judge makes a ruling that you don't like talks about obstruction? Or what would you say, for example, if a minister of Mr González insulted the Spanish citizens who have legitimately gone to protest because they want to defend the unity of Spain? Honestly, Mrs. Delgado, you came lying, you came missing the truth, you came betraying sovereignty. We've known her in these nine months and we know how she is, how she thinks, and how she acts. He began lying and ended up lying and betraying Spain. You were Mr. Sánchez's accomplice when you tried to sell to Spain. I'm going to tell you one thing, right now I wish you the best personally, but professionally it's going to be very difficult for you to return to that justice that has hurt so much and that is harming and betraying so much. I will tell you more, politically forget about the government; forget about the government because you are not only going to lose the elections again, but you are not going to rule again, and I am going to tell you why. Because on April 28th most of the Spaniards we feel and want our country we will have in the retina, in the head and in the heart that both Sanchez and you the only thing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Bonilla. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wasn't wrong, Mrs. Bonilla, what do you want me to tell you? [[Rumors]] Insults, lies and lack of arguments, they have none. You've imputed me here to criminal activities, it's barbarity. You, the People's Party, have no speeches at this time, no arguments, no politics. In nine months we have done so much more than you have done in seven years. [[Rumors]] You know why? Because you have not ruled, you were simply concerned about every corruption issue that was out there, that flooded you, that has made you a party that has the corruption embedded within itself. [[Protests]] They are a party with many problems with corruption, which has prevented them from ruling. [[Protests]] In the time that we have been, because of the bad situation in which they have left to justice, we have had to resume the dialogue, there were normative paralysiss and we have had to move forward on the rules, we have had to stop a harmful digitisation, they have created places without budget allocation, we have thought about people. [[rumors]] If not, ask Gabriel. You probably don't even know who it is because you, for example, hate transs. [[Great Protests]] Gabriel is a minor he wanted...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u203	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u204	...change your name to accommodate you to your true identity. We're proud of that. [[Protests Continue]] Do you know what we're proud of too? To work for the citizens and to give dignity...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u205	Quiet. Wait a minute, Minister, I've stopped your time. Please don't interrupt the minister when she's answering. You have spoken, you have asked the question and now you have to wait to hear the answer. Please do not interrupt that answer. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Bonilla, you talk about bones and graves and those things that you say, you were men and women who lost their freedom, who lost their lives fighting for values that are constitutional today, that today we recognize with them as democrats, and you have vilified them, you have gone against that patriotic Spain, that Spain of the 1978 Constitution, because you only know how to do it is to lie, insult and cry. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON RAFAEL MAYORAL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE VALUE THAT IN THE EMPLOYMENTS EXECUTED ON 22 FEBRUARY 2019 IN THE ARGUMOSA BALL, 11, THE REQUIREMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE SUSPENSION OF THE COMMITTEE, UN DEC? [[File number 180/000957]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u208	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u209	Minister, how do you appreciate that in the evictions carried out on February 22, 2019 on Argumosa Street, 11 of the repeated requirements of the UN ESC Committee were not met?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Mayoral, first of all, what we do is respect and abide by judicial decisions. We have a procedure that is guaranteed and we do so. Then, we also assume the responsibility for situations such as those we live in will not happen again. That is why we need to work politically and make legislative changes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u213	Minister, on February 22, a gentrifying raid took place in the Lavapies neighborhood with a macro-operation with more than 150 officers, fifteen police vans and even a helicopter. For what? For four evictions that had four requirements of the UN DESC Committee for their cessation. The persons concerned were subjected to a siege from 2 and 4 in the morning preventing their right of assembly, including the meeting with Members of this House from 2 and a half in the morning. In the above-mentioned evictions, heads of household are women receiving minimum income and non-contributory retirement benefits. Among the displaced persons are three minors, one of whom is one month old, and one with a disability of 85 per cent. Judicial due diligence was carried out in defence; lawyers were expelled from judicial due diligence. You know very well what it means for a court order to be expelled to the defense and no one can defend himself when the inviolability of the home is at stake. Our group has repeatedly called for compliance with the resolutions and requirements of the optional protocol of the UN ESC and articles 96 and 10 of the Spanish Constitution. In a written reply, his ministry tells us that communicating these ESC resolutions is an interference in the jurisdictional work. Nothing further from reality; compliance with international treaties is an obligation of all the powers of the State. Upon receipt of communications from the DESC Committee, specific instructions should be given to the State Advocate to persons in such proceedings requiring their cessation. There are those who think that defending Spain is opening their heads to Catalans; we and we believe that defending Spain is defending fraternity and protecting its population from vultures. Minister, instruct the State Advocate to comply with the Kingdom's international human rights obligations; if they do not, the Republic will do so sooner than later. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Mayor, I completely agree with you that we have a fundamental problem, we have a social housing deficit problem; in France there are 17% of dwellings dedicated to this while in Spain we have only 2%. It is true that Spain has signed, voluntarily signed the optional protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which makes us take into account the recommendations. It is true that they are not binding, but they must be taken into account, of course. We believe it and we are also in it, and we are in it that we must work, I repeat, in this line. We must, of course, try to articulate measures to avoid situations like these that we are talking about and referring now to the past day 22. That is why we had proposed the reform through a royal decree-law, you know it well, of the Civil Prosecution Act to coordinate between the courts and the social services these situations and also to paralyze them for a month or two depending on whether the plaintiff was a legal person in the case of situations of vulnerability of persons. What we are talking about right now is finding concrete solutions for specific cases such as this, which is what citizenship wants. Therefore, Mr Mayor, on that path we will meet and I am convinced that we will find the way. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JORDI XUCLA I COSTA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OPINION DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE IN RELATION TO THE OPACICAL AND PRE-CONSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT RELATING TO THE FOUNDATION OF THE HOLY CRUZ OF THE VALLEY OF THE DEEP? [[File number 180/000939]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u217	Question by Mr Jordi Xuclà i Costa, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, what is the Government's view of the opaque and pre-constitutional management of the Fundación de la Santa Cruz del Valle de los Fallos?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Xuclà, as you well know, the board of directors of National Heritage has been provisionally developing, under a law dating from 1982, the patronage and representation of the foundation. We are trying to treat the accounts rigorously and, above all, to seek transparency in the use of these funds. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u222	Thank you, Minister. He used a verb that is 'we're trying'. The Foundation of the Holy Cross of the Valley of the Fallen was created by royal decree in 1957 by Carrero Blanco. It has been temporarily legislated since 1982, without resolving the substance of the issues by National Heritage. It lacks statutes; it has no functions; it has no patronage; it receives public money from the General Budgets of the State - more than 2 million euros in the last six years -; and the Court of Auditors, in its reports for the years 2013 and 2017, points out to the Government an inadequacy in the legal regulation and recommends to National Heritage to register separately and rigorously the assets of the foundation and the expenses and revenues. By the way, Minister, we should ask ourselves about this heritage and where that heritage is. Perhaps it is very close to here part of this heritage, in some safe of the Banco de España and perhaps it is a heritage of opaque origin. It is strange that a Government that had expressed its vocation to improve the Historical Memory Act in these eight months has not done so. And in these eight months, this government, which would have had the collaboration of other groups of the absolute majority of this House, has also not faced the revision of the convention with the Benedictines. And with all due respect to the religious, we are talking about the apologia of Francoism, with subsidies of public money in this case, and with a vice of origin: one cannot maintain an agreement with those who affirm literally - so they transferred it to me when we agreed the Law of historical memory - that the earthly law is below the divine law in the regulation of the Valley of the Fallen. Finally, Minister, why are 27 500 documents from the Franco era still in the Francisco Franco Foundation and not in public archives? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u224	Thank you, Mr. President. I have said 'we are trying' because, in fact, you have made a tour of the legislation on the foundation we are talking about, and it is true that it is governed by a 1957 decree-law, an agreement with the Benedictines of 1958 and, in addition, two 1959 regulations. It is very clear that this regulation must be updated and, moreover, with criteria of utility and thinking about the general interest and public funds, which is exactly what it is about. We are monitoring and monitoring that the foundation benefiting from the National Heritage Council grant is fulfilling its goals. That is why we are following the instructions of the Court of Auditors, which already in 2016 told us that we had to control this foundation, which knows that it distributes the money between the abbey and the hostel. He's getting a maintenance grant and we have to control that he's dedicated to those ends. Indeed, on 22 July 2016, on a recommendation again from the Court of Auditors, we asked the Foundation for a detailed report on the expenditure, revenue and budgets that was clear to determine the reasonableness of the use of this public money of the Foundation, and we are waiting for it. It is still expected that they will explain this in order to determine the rigour in management and, above all, the use of these funds. But I completely agree with you that it is necessary to give a new regulation to this foundation, to these agreements and, above all, to specify their purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON RAFAEL ANTONIO HERNANDO FRAILE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES YOUR MANAGEMENT MAKE TO THE FRONT OF THE MINISTRY? [[File number 180/000947]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u226	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Rafael Antonio Hernando Fraile, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u227	Mr. Marlaska, what's the balance of your management?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernando, the balance sheet cannot be another, having formed a strong, firm and professional team, which is positive. We have once again given dignity to the Ministry of the Interior, investing in personal and material elements and knowing what our purpose is, that is to create a public space for everyone to develop their rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u231	Thank you. Mr Marlaska, I see that this whole government has become infected with Mr Sánchez's book, the Manual of Resistance, and they are merely panegirical of themselves and their actions. Mr Marlaska, you came to the government asking for forgiveness and apologize for your past because you were not in the Socialist Party before, as it seems you are now trying to prove. He was - you remember well - elsewhere. When he arrived at the government, as you were ashamed - like Mr Ábalos - of being a minister of a government supported by flooteras, couptistas and communists, he said he was a technician. Soon he went from being a technician to appearing, as he has intended today, to being the most pristine of socialists. Mr. Marlaska, St. Augustine said that God frees us from the faith of the convert. Take care, Mr Ábalos, of Mr Marlaska, who is on the same path. You didn't even delineate yourself when Mr Villarejo's muse formulated the epithets you formulated against you. As a matter of fact, you have taken twenty-six ETA killer terrorists to Basque prisons without repenting or cooperating with the justice system. You have allowed the powers of the prisons to be transferred to the Basque Country to improve the situation of this gentuza. You have allowed tributes to the terrorists who were leaving jails humiliating the victims. You considered the demonstrations in Alsasua in favor of the Civil Guard to be a provocation, while sending thousands of policemen to clear a street to the Marquis of the Falcon so that they could take a walk through Barcelona. You've been politically purging the police and the Civil Guard dome and you've been able to punish cops who were making a joke about Mrs. Colau, while you've ascended police officers who matched Mr. Rajoy with Hitler. Shame on you, Mr. Marlaska! Mr Marlaska, you have also frivolized with immigration and concertinas and, while you have done that, you have increased human trafficking, you have favored the mafias who traffic with human beings and hundreds of them have lost their lives in the Alboran Sea. That will remain upon his conscience and will remain forever. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u233	Mr President, Mr Hernando, who falsifies the truth betrays public relations, Montaigne. This country needs a just, true and up-to-date and not demagogic opposition like the one you have shown today. I'll answer your question about what we've done. For example, we have recovered immigration policy, cooperating with third States and sending clear messages to the mafias, something you had forgotten. We have modernised and strengthened the border protection system for security and humanity; you have left a report on it for June 2017. The National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and the National Strategy against Organized Crime, which were due to expire in 2017, have been approved. The State Security Infrastructure Plan, 850 million, has been approved. This is to take care of and worry about the State Security Forces and Bodies. The Plan for the Improvement of Facilities in Aliens Detention Centres has been approved. We have also improved working conditions with a public employment offer for penitentiary institutions. We have given more resources to the Asylum and Refugee Office, which you had left behind. We have approved the National Resettlement Programme. This government has also invested in road safety, because we are interested in road safety, and has reduced the number of victims by 24 deaths in the second half of 2018, and we have made regulatory changes. Royal Decree 2/2019 was also published to alleviate the damage due to catastrophic circumstances. In short, Mr Hernando, we have worked, we continue to work and, best of all, we are recognized. In some questions you will be able to see even more work that I have not mentioned here, such as the Gibraltar Field Plan, and above all we are laying the foundations for the next parliamentary term. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Noelia VERA RUIZ-HERRERA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT DID THE GOVERNMENT DO TO CLEAR The BBVA'S CORRUPT TREATMENT AND THE VILLARY COMMISSIONER? [[File number 180/000924]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u235	Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what has the government done to clarify the corrupt plot between BBVA and Commissioner Villarejo?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u237	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Vera. As you know, this issue is brought to justice on the basis of the documentation and other effects made available to then Commissioner Villarejo. Our occupation and our concern from the Ministry of the Interior, as you well know, is to provide the Internal Affairs Unit with sufficient personal and material resources to enable it to carry out its work under a single unit, that of judges, courts and prosecutors, because they are now constituted in the Judicial Police. [[The lady]] It is my duty to give them the means and demand professionalism and arrival at the end of the events. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vera Ruiz-Herrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u240	Thank you. Minister, they could have done a much simpler thing since the Congress of Deputies: to vote in favour of Villarejo appearing at this seat to give explanations and not to vote against, as they did at the Bureau of Congress. [[Applauds]] I know you don't like to talk much about Villarejo, among other things because it represents in your person what the state sewers mean: the Veritas case; the Yak-42; the Corinna case and the Emeritus king - who doesn't like too much -; the Bárcenas case. And it doesn't look like it's gonna end here, because this gentleman seems to feel like he's pulling out of the blanket and taking a few forwards. The BBVA is another case that demonstrates what we have been saying for years since United We can, and is that there is an obvious compadre between political and financial power to operate in favour of those who do not run for election, which is causing the institutions to be parasitized and not to govern you or not to govern Mr. Married or us; they are going to govern those who do not run for election, I insist. Why so passive? We are talking about a very serious and very serious case. We are talking about one of the main banks in this country hired a mobster to spy on political opponents, pursue them in their personal life and then use them in favor. I think the problem here is clear. They do not want to take any steps to clarify all this since the Congress of Deputies. Both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have used the state's sewers for what purpose. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you something else. The sewers of the State are not the only problem of institutional corruption, also the revolving doors, which you do not want to prohibit. It's clear. You know that more than 175 former political leaders are part of the IBEX 35 boards of directors, electrical and large banks, among others. How could we think that yesterday they were going to vote in favour of imposing on the big electrics if they have colleagues on the boards of directors and also on the banks? Mr Marlaska, if you do not want to do anything about this, there will be no reason not to allow your colleagues to continue to feed on this corrupt plot, which both the People's Party and you have been giving years, years and years. The legislature is over, but I ask you, please, if we repeat this out of decency, out of democratic health and out of respect for all those people who have been evicted, who have just given their faces through the Minister of Justice, and all those people who can't pay the rent bill because... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u241	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u242	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vera, I realize from your speech - we were commenting - that we have already begun the pre-election campaign. I'll tell you one thing. Before, as a judge, my purpose was to raise corruption, now, as a Minister of the Interior, not only my purpose but also my job is to give the police and the Civil Guard the means to fight corruption, wherever it comes from. We're doing it. The Council of Ministers recently declassified certain declared secret documentation relating to the case you are talking about. We are very clear that effective judicial protection, State security cannot become a justification for unlawful actions. There we are. I believe that you have nothing to blame this Government, nothing to blame this Minister of the Interior, nothing to blame the team of this Minister of the Interior, nothing to blame the State Security Forces and Bodies, under the direction of this Minister, during this time of no fact. [[Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera utters words that are not perceived]] But not in previous times, because 99% of those State Security Forces and Corpses have been the ones supporting the rule of law. And we are currently following and we are - I say again - cleaning up. And that partisan use that was made on the part of the police network with other governments, which now only use falsehood and insult, insult, demagogy, is no longer present. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED ANTONIAN SAVER OF THE ENTINE ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SECURITY PLAN FOR THE FIELD OF GIBRALTAR FROM IMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/000942]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u243	Question by Mr Salvador Antonio de la Encina Ortega, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Hernando, Don Rafael, let me begin by referring to you in your final intervention, when you said: it will remain in your consciences and forever abandonment... No, what will remain in your consciences and forever in the citizens of the Gibraltar Field is the ill-treatment to which you have subjected them in recent years. [[Applauds]] I do not say this, he said it here on 28 May, three days before the motion of censure was presented, in the Committee on the Interior, at the invitation of Mr Juan Antonio Delgado, of Podemos, and of me, of the Socialist Group, in a historical intervention, and whose title I remind you, of the president of the Federation of Fight against Drugs, a person recognized by Andalusia and all Andalusians: In the field of Gibraltar the red line has crossed with drug trafficking. [[shows a press clipping]] I read: A few days earlier, with Mr.Zoido as minister, nine visits to the Field of Gibraltar; many photos, not a single resource. The State did not root out the escalation of violence and is now being paid. Do you know what happened? That there has been a change of government, with a minister, Mr Marlaska, and with a president involved with the citizens, with the Gibraltar Field. And it approved, on 24 June, that is, twenty days after the Minister was appointed, a citizens' security plan for the Gibraltar Field with 7.3 million euros, which has meant a spectacular increase in human and material resources. Secondly, on the 15th, here, in these Courts, we validate among all the decree limiting the navigation of narcolanchas used by these criminals in the bay of Algeciras. Thirdly, the following day, once again in the Council of Ministers, the Comprehensive Development Plan for the Field of Gibraltar, EUR 810 million approved, of which, Mr Hernando, 330 were in that budget which you voted against and which makes it impossible for those necessary resources to arrive in order to continue working not only on police matters. I am grateful, Minister, for the intense work that is being done every day. I am aware of your personal interest in following up on this fact. Let it end today with the same thing that said those words here, in the Commission, this gentleman... [[Mr Hernando Fraile speaks words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u245	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, Mr. Hernando. Mr. De la Encina, you haven't asked any questions, but do you want someone to answer it? The Minister? Sit down, Mr. Hernando! [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: I'll answer you. He told me.]] Minister, if you want to say anything... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u247	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u248	Mr De la Encina, thank you very much for the question, which was duly formalized and which I began to answer. Look how well this Government, and also this ministry, has done with the Field of Gibraltar which, if you realize, have asked me everything, have given me sticks in everything, but in this they have kept quiet, because they know that there was no interpretation, nor use falsehood, as they have done. [[Applauds]] The balance that we can make after launching the Gibraltar Plan is, of course, positive. Security conditions have been restored and the perception of greater firmness in police action in the face of the threats posed by drug trafficking in the social fabric has grown between citizens and criminal groups. The number of detainees and the volume of arrests, especially Hashish, have increased. Action has been taken to tackle the important avenues of financing of criminal groups by deepening investigations. Police coordination and collaboration have been strengthened. Greater participation of citizens, which is important, and collective, as you have said, affected by drug trafficking, in police prevention policies and measures against drug trafficking. Arrests have been made in 1976. The total number of people detained last year was, of course, much higher than in 2017. 71,733 kilos of hashish have been caught. 120 means of land transport, a significant amount of cash, have been seized. Your Honor, we had a double challenge and we started it from the first day we arrived at the ministry, and on July 24 there was already an instruction in that direction from the Secretariat of State for Security. We should counter security conditions, because the rule of law was disappearing from the Gibraltar Field, and now the rule of law has returned to where it should be. We've done more security and more legality. And do you know why, in addition to what I said at the beginning, I am convinced that we are doing the right thing, nothing more or less than the right thing, in the Gibraltar Field? Because not only agents of the National Police Corps or the Civil Guard, but citizens of the Gibraltar Field, when I crossed the street with them, they let me know, and for me that's the best thermometer. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT WAS YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO IMPROVING THE SPANISH EDUCATION SYSTEM? [[File number 180/000951]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u249	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u250	Thank you, President. Mr De la Encina, do not go ahead, there are still two months left for you to occupy the position of the opposition. [[Applauds]] Mrs Celaá, in just eight months you have made an unprecedented attack on concerted education and educational freedom. He has consented to his indoctrination in the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands and Catalonia without any indecency. They have allowed nationalists and independenceists to decide in which language our children must be educated. They have eliminated and made disappear the culture of the effort and merit of our educational system. And they have imposed a sectarian and extreme left educational model, rather than dialogue to try to find a pact. I could continue with the list of misconceptions. That is why we ask you if you have done something positive to improve education in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u251	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hoyo, I would have liked to have had a more positive dialogue with you, especially with regard to education. But I ask you: to know hear, dare you to know, study education, please, and we will talk about education. Look, not only does this ministry say this, says the OECD in its PISA programme, if any strength had the Spanish educational system was equity; an equity that has lost over these seven years. And you know what we've done? Returning equity to the system; an equity that you have taken away. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u254	Mrs Celaá, study the data and do not lie, as you lied last week, about the figures on indoctrination. I will tell you that the best contribution you could have made to the Spanish education system would have been to leave the hands of Mrs Montón or, rather, Mr Huertas, because you have done a bad job. It's been eight months of neglect; eight months of stubble; eight months of concessions to independenceists and populists. Far from solving some of the problems that our education has, what it has done is deepen and deepen them. Mrs Celaá, your Government has put its interests before the interests of the future generations of our country. They have only failed to include the Resistance Manual in the school curriculum. That is why we are very clear that on 28 April the Spaniards are going to say no to their policies, and they are going to say no to the educational reform they have presented. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u255	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Hoyo, you speak of nothing; you do not know what you are saying, just insinuations, insidiations and generalities. Last Thursday and without any vote against it was approved the reversal of the educational cuts that will return a personalized treatment to the student, therefore, improves the families, and of course much more time to the teacher... [[Mrs. Hoyo Juliá makes negative gestures]] Why do you say no? Your Honor, you will return much more time to the faculty so that not only do individual treatment of each of the students but collective and collaborative with the rest. Moreover, we have introduced a bill that suppresses the segregation model of Lomce, which only generated 16% more repetitions in primary and a reduction in the rate of graduates in ESO and baccalaureate by 2 and 3 points. Besides, you talk a lot about the concerta but you didn't do anything for the concerta. They created a conference table in 2013 that was never set up; this Government has met twice in eight months. You did not meet the General Council for Vocational Training in seven years; we have met it. You have not gathered the Observatory of Scholarships and Study Aid; we have gathered it. We have generated the Strategic Plan for Vocational Training, we have allowed the company to enter the Observatory of the National System of Vocational Qualifications, which completely changes vocational training. Your Honor, you have no idea what's been done and, you know what I'm saying? Let him dare to learn it and so we will talk about education and, in a much quieter way, see if we can improve the Spanish education system, with your help, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARLOS JAVIER FLORIANO CORRALES, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT IS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL DIALOGUE? [[File number 180/000948]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u257	Questions to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Question by Mr Carlos Javier Floriano Corrales, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u258	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, it is an objective fact that the passage of the Socialist Party by the government always translates into a dramatic increase in unemployment figures - dramatic - except in cases where they are not long - as has been yours - in which there is an increase that does not reach the classification of dramatic. You, who persevere in dialogue with separatists, do not, however, have the same perseverance with social dialogue. It is a fact that, during these weeks, they have combined with the counter-reform of work, to the extent that they question essential aspects of it. They forget that this labour reform has allowed the creation of 3 million jobs, and I think they forget essential parts by not giving a chance to social dialogue and by trying to reach the electoral campaign with some duties that for their electorate, or for their own, could be something positive. I would therefore like to ask you what you mean by social dialogue and whether until the next elections are held, until the next government is set up, you can commit yourself not to pass a decree to reform substantial aspects of labour reform. If that were not the case, you would do the labour market and the workers of our country a little favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u259	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, for this minister - and as defined by the ILO - the social dialogue includes all kinds of negotiations and consultations between representatives of governments, employers and workers on issues of common interest relating to economic and social policies. I fully share this definition. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Floriano, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u262	I mean, you can't compromise, which I regret, Minister. It'll be so funny to you, but I'm sorry. I am sorry to say that, with the last reform that you have adopted, you have been able to eliminate all the bonuses that have caused youth unemployment to fall by 20% and there are more women than ever before working in our country. You are very grateful, but it is clear that they have come to the Government at the expense of the independenceists and are now using the institutions obscenely. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u263	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u264	Your Honor, I'm not going into the provocation rag. In addition, I find it very curious that you speak of social dialogue when your party, when it ruled, approved, olympically passing from social dialogue, labour reform. It approved unilaterally the 2013 pension reform, moving from the Bureau of Social Dialogue, the Toledo Pact, to a demolishing report of the Economic and Social Council, only with its votes, unilaterally, in such a way that it became socially and politically unsustainable, and you yourself last year had to postpone candles and submit a full refund amendment, raising pensions according to the planned CPI and at least 3%. So lessons of social dialogue from your party to the Socialist Party that supports this government the just. The first thing the Government did when it arrived was to resume the social dialogue. Five bureaux were set up: the Employment and Labour Relations bureau, the Vocational Training and Qualification bureau, the Social Security bureau, the Equality bureau and the Submerged Economy bureau. At these tables we have approved the activation programme for employment, the Young Employment Shock Plan, the incorporation into the agreements of clauses that will make it possible to terminate the employment contract when the legal retirement age is reached, and also the improvement of the situation of housekeepers, known as kellys, recognizing certain occupational diseases and the improvement of the social benefits of self-employed. You asked me if this government is going to bring any real decree-law to validation by the Permanent Chamber. In the history of democracy exactly thirty-nine royal decree-laws have been validated by the Permanent Diputation. This Government is not in office; this Government is governing, is functioning and we will bring the real decree-laws to validation that we believe are good for recovering rights lost by Spanish citizens with the cuts of the People's Party and with the restrictive and anti-social reforms. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHY IS NOT THE PRIORITY OBJECTIVE OF YOUR MINISTER TO MARKET A PLAN THAT GUARANTEES AND ENSURES QUALITY USE? [[File number 180/000936]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u265	Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why has it not been a priority of your ministry to create an employment plan to ensure decent employment?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u267	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u268	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I do not understand this question very well because it has of course been the priority of the Government, to which I have the honour to belong as Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security, to bet from the very first moment that we arrive at it not only because there is more employment but also more quality, less precarious, more decent and more secure employment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Garzón, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u270	Minister, in our country there are regions, autonomous communities, where the unemployment rate is above 20% and there are other regions, autonomous communities, where the unemployment rate is below 10%. In all of them, labour law is the same and, therefore, this disparity is understood for reasons other than the possible reform of labour reform, because what we have is a structural problem with the productive model which in turn leads to problems of precariousness. If you support a model based on seasonality, such as tourism, you will eventually have seasonal jobs and contracts, i.e. precarious. His Government, therefore, at this time - limited time - had not set it as a priority because it had contributed absolutely nothing in the direction of transforming that productive model, beyond rhetoric and words, but without having been translated into facts. We believe that a guaranteed work plan needs to be incorporated. A guaranteed work plan not only has a very powerful philosophical matrix, but understands that the productive model has to change through investment in public employment because it generates a system of incentives that at the same time allows us to direct towards which productive model we want to go. For example, in the area of depopulation, one of the main problems that really break Spain, jobs could be created that direct the productive model towards this direction of repopulating rural areas; in the area of the distribution of care services, a feminist perspective; in the area of energy transition, improving energy efficiency using jobs in the field of construction. Ultimately, it is about creating jobs from a multidimensional perspective to address the challenges of this country in an integral way. This can be quantified - we have done this - at EUR 9 billion in net terms, which will not only save us a great deal of money in unemployment benefits, but will also have a positive and multiplier effect on the economy as a whole. And you know what it takes for that? Political will, because 9 billion is a significant amount of money, but it is irrelevant, insignificant if we compare it with the disbursement of the financial burden, 60 billion euros, with the rescue of motorways, 45 billion euros, or with the cost overruns for example of the AVE, 75 billion euros. Therefore, what is needed is political will, and I believe that at this time you have not had that political will. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u271	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u272	Thank you, President. Your Honor, with all due respect, I have to disagree with the statement you have just made, this government has had from the very beginning political will to improve quality in employment, which is why you were asking me. Just to arrive, on July 27 in particular, we approved the Master Plan for a dignified Work 2018-2020, fifty-five operational measures and twenty organizational measures. Apart from these measures, there were two shock plans, one against fraudulent temporary recruitment and the other against part-time fraudulent recruitment, and it has certainly yielded results. It also implied an increase in the material and human resources of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate of our country. For example, as at 31 January this year, the temporary contracts that had been transformed into indefinite contracts that were the subject of the shock plan were 61,445 contracts, 76.3% of the contracts investigated. And in January 2019 the average number of workers in the general scheme with indefinite and full-time employment has reached the highest since January 2010, exactly 7,068,051 people. Of course, much remains to be done to reduce the temporality and alleviate the precariousness, but it is not because of the lack of political will of this Government. Also on December 7, we approved the Youth Employment Shock Plan 2019-2021, three thousand new advisors who will operate in the autonomous communities with the Youth Orient Program. We have increased with the help of your group or by agreement the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros, we are developing a long-term unemployment plan especially for people over forty-five years of age and also a return plan. In short, during these months this Government has ruled and tried to improve the quality of life of citizens in general and in particular of workers in the country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u273	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES YOUR GOVERNMENT THINK THERE IS SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEPARTMENT OF VEHICLES IN OUR COUNTRY IN THE LAST FIVE MONTHS? [[File number 180/000950]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u274	She is now asking the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Industry, do you think your government has anything to do with the systematic fall of vehicle registrations in our country? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u276	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u277	Thank you, President. No, Mr. Echaniz, and I'll tell you why. If you rigorously analyse the enrolment statistics for 2018, you will see that there has been a significant increase in the third quarter of 16% motivated - I suppose you know - by the entry into force of the WLTC protocol in September which then resulted in a fall in the fourth quarter of 7.6%. Overall, 2018 has closed to maximum enrolment levels; enrolments have increased by more than 1.3 million, an increase of 7 % in annual terms. So, no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u278	Mr. Echaniz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u279	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, in eight months you add up to five of them from falls of enrollment. Only between January 2018 and January 2019 fell by 8%. Your statements over these months have not only been clumsy, they have been worthy of the Marx brothers, because you have passed from saying that the diesel had the days counted to saying that the diesel has a long life ahead of it. You have generated uncertainty and confusion, and you have done so in a very important market in the Spanish economy, the vehicle market, which is a strategic sector of our economy. What they have done is so serious that in the last month of January, this last one that we have lived, more vehicles of more than fifteen years have been bought than new vehicles, and that, Your Honor, is assuming a stoppage in the renovation of our technological park and our vehicle park. That is assuming that pollution is increasing, it is assuming that road safety is decreasing and it is implying an increase in our unemployment and a fall in exports in a country that is the second in Europe and the eighth in the world precisely in this sector. Madam Minister, you are a problem-making government, you have managed to shut down more factories than since the beginning of the crisis. You have managed to produce more ERE than at the height of the economic crisis in our country; and you have achieved through taxes, through the rise in energy costs, through the rise in labour costs, through social security contributions, even - see - the defaults, which are also increasing. His Government had been extremely damaging in industrial policy and that was assuming that the billing of energy companies was even decreasing. Minister, with you the deficit has returned to Spain, the debt has returned, the tax increase and the increase in unemployment has returned. It's always the same, it never fails you, you're a real toothache for the Spaniards. And it would be easy to criticize you on the basis of your tweets, where you are not able to put 'ha' with axe, but that is not the most important, the most serious thing, Your Honor, is that what most pollutes this country is not precisely the fuels, it is this sectarian and radical government that is laughing at all the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u280	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I will tell you what this government has done in eight months for the automobile sector, in eight months, when you did nothing in seven years. A new WLTC transitional regime has been established which has improved the reduction of a significant negative impact on the car sector. The figure of the load manager for the deployment of the electrification infrastructure has been eliminated. Improvements to the relay contract to improve plant productivity, amounting to 422 million, have been approved, an improvement that had been requested by the sector for four years by the People's Party Government. The 60 million Moves Plan has been launched to encourage the purchase of low-emission vehicles. I will tell you what you did in seven years: in September 2017 you approved the Car Sector Agenda, an agenda that is wet paper, and you know why it is wet paper? Because you gave it zero euros, which is what you always do when you rule, you announce but then you forget to paint it in the budget. [[Applauds]] We are indeed working with the sector in an agreement that we are going to provide with a budget of more than 26 billion because the commitment, as I say, of this government to the sector is total. You were talking about deficit, you were talking about unemployment, you don't see statistics well as spokesperson, you don't read them well. We have created more than half a million jobs, the Spanish economy is growing above 2%, more than the EU average. You are leading us to frustration, you are leading this country to obscurantism. Tell me about industrial crises, tell me which companies this government has closed. We've solved the Vestas crisis, we've solved the Cemex crisis, we're working to solve the Alcoa crisis as well... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u282	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ASCENSION CARREÑO FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT IS YOUR RELATIONSHIP TO THE NEXT CAP? [[File number 180/000952]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u283	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs María Ascension Carreño Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u284	Minister, you have defrauded the agri-food sector, our farmers and farmers who have not been defended or supported by you. Do you know that you're called the missing person? As disappeared you have been here, in Congress, because for many appearances requested by the People's Group you have not come even one to appear. It has also created uncertainty in many areas. You have created uncertainty in the financing of the common agricultural policy, you have created uncertainty in the harmful water policy and you have created uncertainty and abandonment in sectors that are suffering as much as is the citrus sector. Minister, what are you doing to defend the price of the markets? What are you doing to prevent the entry of products from third countries with less food security? What has he done and is doing to prevent the loss of billions of euros for our farmers and farmers? What will be the legacy that you will leave in the next common agricultural policy, Minister? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u285	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u286	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I have appeared whenever I have been summoned; if you have requested it and have not been summoned, logically, I do not appear. In May last year the European Commission presented its financial proposals on the common agricultural policy and in June the proposal for the three regulations. Since then the Government of Spain, and this minister, have been dedicated to defending the interests of Spanish farmers and farmers and my record of this period is positive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Carreño, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u288	I am sure, Minister, that you are going to do what Pedro Sánchez and the rest of your Government are doing: to use the public media in full election campaign to do and announce what they should have done and announced in the last eight months, ladies and gentlemen. Above all, you will organize forums, organize meetings to appease the autonomous communities and organizations that you have had so forgotten, neglected and, above all, penalized by you and your Government. They want to do you in eight pre-election days what you should have done in eight months. The Socialist Party would have to answer if it supported or rejected the budget cut for the common agricultural policy proposed by the European Commission, because it was very significant because it was its partner, the Minister for Economic Affairs, who proposed a 30% cut in the budget for the future common agricultural policy and it was the People's Party government that negotiated to leave it to you by 3.5%. Since then, what have you done? What have you negotiated? What we do know, Minister, is that the Socialists, Communists and Greens have insisted on a postponement and it was the People's Party that criticised that position. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u289	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u290	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's see. The negotiation, honourable Member - I will explain it to you and I hope you understand it - works as follows. There is a European plan and a national plan in Spain. At the European level, at the seven meetings of the Council of Ministers in which I participated we, as the Government of Spain, advocated that the funds for the period 2021-2027 be exactly the same as the funds for the period 2014-2020. In the European Parliament we are in contact with the Spanish Members and also with the European Members so that this same thesis can go forward, as well as the conditions of the regulations that are going on. But, more importantly, in Spain from the moment this government took possession we made this a state policy. I mean, you want to stay out, but all the autonomous communities, including those that you govern, all the professional agricultural organizations, all the environmental organizations and cooperatives are supporting a common platform that serves the Government of Spain to negotiate. And in that process, logically, we intend and hope that these funds, which are necessary for our farmers and farmers, will be approved. When? This negotiation process, according to the European calendar, is delayed, probably at the end of the year or in the middle of next year. We are already working this week in the group created specifically with the Autonomous Communities in the definition of the first national strategic plan, which we will present as one of the first countries of the European Union for the next Community framework. Therefore, Madam Member, this is a positive balance. Mr Rajoy merely sent a three-paragraph letter from which we have not made the answer public because of institutional indecentness. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u291	Thank you very much. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION: IS THE MINISTER Satisfied with the impact of her measures on the price of electricity? [[File number 180/000949]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u292	Question addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, today I would like to bring it to reality, to figures and to rigour, because it seems desirable that one of the present should be dealt with when it is governed. The PSOE has returned and the electrical bill has risen again. Between 2004 and 2011 we were left with a hole of 28 billion euros and an increase in the invoice of 74%. Well, in January 2019 we already have a 27% increase in the daily market compared to the last five years and have announced a deficit of 450 million euros. You know why? Because the Socialist Party's energy proposals never think about the costs or sustainability of the system and the consequence, what is it? An increase in the electrical bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u294	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u295	Can you tell me what the question is, please? [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u296	Thank you very much. I'm just going to ask Mr. Marshal a question. Is your question on the agenda?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u298	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u299	Moderately satisfied. I would have liked to find things better oriented and not with the problems derived forward, and I would have liked to have more time to finish solving them, but, yes, I am satisfied with my management. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u300	Mr. Marshal, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u301	Your problem, Minister, is how it addresses the need for energy transition that our country needs. They have abandoned the principle of technological neutrality to embrace the politicization of technologies, i.e. from now on there are left-wing technologies or right-wing technologies. They want to lead an unjust transition in which there are winners and losers, but we have a different program, a program that has dialogue as a guide and that will obviously listen to everyone, not as you have done. We want to support the energy-intensive industry, which you have not done either. We are also going to boost interconnections because they have done nothing about it. As for nuclear energy, they have changed their minds a few times. In principle they were going to shut down the power stations at the age of forty and we are now at the age of forty-five. The nuclear shutdown you have planned for 2030 is a mistake. It is a mistake to close 20% of Spain's electricity generation that does not emit CO2 and will imply an increase in the bill between 4% and 5%, Minister. As far as renewable energy is concerned, we are going to put into operation, thanks to the proposal of the People's Party, 9000 megawatts at no cost to the Spanish citizens. You in 2018 and 2019, zero, zero renewable megawatts and not even the Canary auction that was prepared. How do you plan to multiply by seven the photovoltaic power installation or two the wind energy if your background is zero renewable energy between 2018 and 2019? Its energy policy is not credible, it is a policy that has abandoned dialogue and does not think of building beyond a legislature or beyond a generation as is our case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u302	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u303	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. As I said, it has been a shame to have found the ground so embarrassed and with the problems referred to the future, with huge problems of litigation that at some point we will have to pay, with zero order in the nuclear invoice and the Enresa fund prepared for dismantling in a state of bankruptcy - we must feed that fund in order to proceed to the orderly closure of nuclear power plants - and with coal thermal power plants that had to close in 2020, unless they had substantial investments to be able to meet the obligations of the European Union and whose future was absolutely uncertain. That is why we have undertaken a series of measures in the immediate future that have already been implemented and that explain why from March to May 2018 the price of the labor market has increased by 37%, price escalation that continues in a uniform way until September 2018 until 71.27 euros megawatt/hour and, from there, thanks to the measures we adopted, the increase has been relaxed, producing a significant reduction: 9 % in October, 13 % in November, December and January and 24 % in the first twenty-two days of February. This, of course, is not structural. That is why we must undertake the reforms we put forward in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which will allow the electricity bill to be reduced by 12% before taxes in 2030. Therefore, look carefully at the figures for better information, stronger, more contrasting and in line with the European models and the obligations we have all signed, including you unanimously. I think we need to be a little more cautious, Mr Mariscal, and put things more seriously instead of looking elsewhere and demagoguely with a policy that is fundamental to the country, to the most vulnerable citizens and as you have pointed out, but not with the right recipes, to the electro-intensive industry and investors who have to rely on our country's ability to modernize and be efficient and renewable in their energy consumption, which is the only way to have stable, predictable and low prices. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMICS AND Entrepreneurship: DOES THE SPANISH ECONOMY THINK IS PREPARED TO AFFECT THE CHALLENGES OF THE CURRENT COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000953]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u304	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mr Antonio Roldán Monés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u305	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, how do you assess the economic situation in Spain and what reforms have you implemented in the last eight months to reverse the situation we are in and enhance the competitiveness of the economy?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u306	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u307	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Roldán, I answer the question you asked in writing. As I explained in my appearance last week and was able to explain today the President of the Government throughout the day - perhaps because you have not been here, you have not been able to listen to him - the Spanish economy has grown by 2.5% during 2018, the forecasts for 2019 are positive, and some bodies even expect a growth of 2.4%, in any case a growth higher than the rest of the countries of the European Union and the euro area average, so the situation is positive. However, the prospects would be much more positive if the General Budgets of the State that we have proposed had been adopted, and they will certainly be much better when we complete the implementation of the Agenda for Change, the road map of structural reforms that we have been implementing since the first day, since June last year, and which we will continue to implement in the future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Roldán, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u309	Thank you, President. Minister, I think you have a problem. You would like and know, as I also know, that what this country needs is to implement the economic policies of Citizens, but you are in a government that implements the economic policies of Podemos. Let's talk about employment. In your eight months as you well say you have brought the Agenda for Change, in which you propose that you want to reduce contracts, that you want even an Austrian backpack, that you want to reform the failed training policy, but Citizens bring to the House a law against precariousness, that carries exactly those same measures, and you are killing it before it can even be processed. [[The Lord]] Now, in the last few days, we learn that they want to go through the back door a reform to repeal the labor reform, which is what Podemos asks. Is that the concept of progress you have? At what level of unemployment do you want to return, at 20%, to 25%, to which of all the previous years? Let's talk about institutions, which are key to growth, as you know. Is it correct that when Mr Sánchez comes to the government he does exactly the same thing as the PP, which takes out 500 people to put his 500 plugs and puts his chief of staff, his secretary of organisation, at the head of public enterprises, some of them key, with a lot of workers and who are at high risk in terms of competitiveness? We can talk about a lot more. We have many risks in the markets and there are serious problems that you have not been able to address. We have a challenge in the world of urban mobility and what you bring, for example, is a reform that brings us to the 1988 law. You say that you defend equality and what you do is to agree with the People's Party a quota to consolidate privileges in the Basque Country. Madam Minister, as I have told you, you have a problem, which you present as reformists, but you do exactly the same in economic policy - and that is your legacy from these eight months - as we can do. And that, for this Member and for this parliamentary group, is a huge disappointment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u311	I will briefly comment on three points. First of all, you see only serious problems and risks, and what I see are more opportunities and positive aspects of our country. You spoke about the labour market. Let me tell you that 566 000 jobs have been created in 2018, an average of 1500 jobs have been created per day, unemployment has fallen by 462,000 people, an average variation rate of 12% and these trends are being maintained. I have a positive view of my country. That would be my first element. And I am not going to talk about the confidence of international investors, who have multiplied by eight the offer we have made in the syndicated auction of a new bond. Second element. It draws my attention to the fact that you say that they are the economic policies of Citizens, and I really recommend that you stop acting as if the only people who had ideas in this country were the people of Citizens, because you do not have the monopoly of ideas, and on the contrary makes you seem to have a mixture of ignorance and arrogance, frankly. The truth is that there are excellent economists in Spain, many of them work in the Ministry of Economy and have excellent ideas, and thanks to them we have been implementing this Agenda of Change since the first day. It also draws my attention to the suggestion that we say one thing and do another. The party that calls itself liberal and has no problem sitting with the far right? The center party that puts a sanitary cordon on the Socialist Party? The pre-European party that says we send the excellent Foreign Minister to Europe to get him off our backs? Speaking of incoherence, it seems to me that you take the palm. [[Applauds]] Third fundamental element, which is to return to the first. It won't give me time...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u312	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE FELIPE JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND ENTERPRISES: HOW CAN THE CHANGE AGENDA BE PLANNED THE BASIS OF SUSTAINABLE AND JUST GROWTH? [[File number 180/000943]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u313	Question by Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alferez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u314	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, we are facing a new economic cycle with favourable prospects. Therefore, we now have a magnificent opportunity to face the challenges facing our country and, above all, our economy, and one of those challenges is undoubtedly to generate quality jobs, a challenge that is more necessary than ever after seeing the consequences of the disastrous labour policy of the People's Party, after seeing how we have poor workers, workers who have lost rights, workers with wages of misery. We therefore have the opportunity to generate quality employment in the face of the precarious employment left to us by the People's Party. We also have the challenge that research, innovation and technology have much more weight in our economy, so that we can correct and overcome those seven years of the People's Party in which we have forgotten about research, innovation and science. He forgot in the budget to bet on science, in the same way that the Rajoy governments forgot for seven years of the thousands of researchers and scientists who had to leave our country, because here they had no future. Madam Minister, our economy also has a fundamental challenge, and it is to be able to sustain the welfare state, to strengthen the welfare state, that our economy serves to guarantee decent pensions, which the People's Party did not do, that our welfare state can have in the economy a fundamental pillar in which to be able to end poverty, especially child poverty, with which to sustain our system of dependency, which the PP was unable to do in seven years of government; to be able to face the demographic challenge, that of the depopulation of our country, to talk about an economy respectful of the environment, respectful of the productive and consumer models. Madam Minister, I want to stress a very special point, and that is that our economy also has to serve to achieve equality. Our economy has to allow a man to cover the same as a woman, a woman to cover the same as a man if they have the same job, a woman not serving to guarantee pensions because she has children, but because she is a contributor, because she is a worker and will have a decent pension tomorrow. Minister, we know that the government has been working on all of this since it entered eight months ago. We want to know that Agenda for Change, that agenda that will continue, because surely we will have the confidence of the Spaniards in the upcoming elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u315	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u316	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, which allows me to link very well with the previous one. I wanted to end by saying precisely: in the face of defeatism, optimism. That is what your question is asking, and that has been the action of the Government since the first day. I think the important thing is to see the reality, to see the challenges, to see the challenges and uncertainties ahead, but not to lose sight of the assets and strengths that our country has, on which we can build a much better future for our children. That is precisely what the Agenda for Change seeks to do, to have a medium- and long-term vision, to put the long lights on, to lift the head and to put in place sixty measures in different areas of action that can lay the foundations for more sustainable growth, from the financial point of view, from the environmental point of view and from the social point of view, as you pointed out. These measures are not measures to implement from now on, we have been implementing them from day one. We are talking about the elimination of the sun tax and the regulation of self-consumption; we are talking about the Environmental Damage Compensation Fund, the Youth Employment Shock Plan that has driven my partner the Minister of Labour, the Action Plan for a Worthy Employment. I am talking about the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, the strengthening of the powers of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, and of course the great environmental package presented by the government last week or the real decree-law on science that I hope will be validated this week. This is a package of measures, a road map for all of us to act in a coordinated way in this direction, with six fundamental axes. Firstly, to bet on training and human capital, one of the fundamental elements of our competitiveness and future productivity. Secondly, to actively manage the ecological transition. Thirdly, to ensure an efficient and fair labour market, as you pointed out. Fourthly, support scientific and technological progress. Fifthly, to combat inequalities and to support our welfare state, and finally to move towards a more efficient administration and at the service of the citizens. As you said, this is the right time to do all this, because the economic circumstances are favourable and because we have made progress in resolving many imbalances, but much remains to be done. We have no time to lose, as we have been doing for the past nine months and we will continue to do in the future, to establish a better Spain for our children and our grandchildren. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u317	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u318	We then proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the guarantee of the right to housing in the Spanish State. Mr. Margall Sastre has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u319	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good afternoon, minister. The Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra wanted to make the last question of this legislature to talk about housing, at a critical time for many families in the Spanish state who are about to be evicted because they are unable to pay their mortgages or the increase in the price of rent. You know very well, minister, that in this country we have moved from the mortgage bubble to the rental bubble. The result remains homeless people, empty floors and wild evictions. We saw it last Friday at the 11th Argumosa Street eviction, which was carried out despite the repeated suspension requirements of the UN DEC Committee. The result is devastating: four families were evicted, one with a one-month-old child, and several people were arrested while trying to prevent it. Is this the housing model of the PSOE government, minister? Doesn't it embarrass you, as the minister responsible for housing, that these events take place? From here we want to give all our support to the broken families of Argumosa Street. Statistics show that in this country many citizens spend most of their wages paying their housing, in some cases more than 60% of their income. Meanwhile, the gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens seem a luxury to charge 900 euros of interprofessional minimum wage, when in most of the cities of this country it does not even arrive to pay the rent. We are expelling people from the rental market and reinvigorating the purchase of housing through mortgages, knowing what happened eleven years ago when the bubble burst. It is an irresponsibility and a violation of citizens' rights. You still haven't solved the regulation of the pay-as-you-go. We're throwing people out of their house while we leave them with a debt in the current account. This is a true immorality and there is no person who can defend it without the face of shame falling. The gentrification that is causing the rental bubble is destroying our neighborhoods and is throwing our neighbors out of the city centre. We're turning the center of big cities into theme parks, and it doesn't make any sense. In some neighbourhoods of large and medium-sized cities in the state, rents are rising by more than 60%, and in some cases prices are doubling or tripled when new contracts are signed. We can do many things to solve it: social rents, public housing, price regulation, taxes on empty floors. These are not Bolivarian and communist measures, but are being done by our northern European neighbours. The disproportionate increase in rents in recent years is due to multiple causes, including the unwillingness of the different PP and PSOE governments to promote the creation of a sufficient public housing stock to be able to influence prices. At present the public housing stock in Spain accounts for only 2.5% of the total, far from the values above 15% of European countries. During the period of economic growth, high fiscal incentives were introduced to buy, ahead of rent, and instead, when the economic crisis broke out and many families found it difficult to deal with their mortgages, the Government chose to rescue the banks rather than the families themselves. At that time a great opportunity was lost to create a large public housing park with a mixed model of property and affordable rents, and instead speculation was facilitated to financial institutions. The dynamism of the big cities, partly explained by tourism activity, has led to an increase in the prices of the real estate market that is difficult to assume for families increasingly punished by a precarious labour market, which continues to press down wages. This is where the necessary role of the public administration acquires value, in correcting a dysfunction of the market. The Government's decree of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent showed limitations which we consider to be inexhaustible, given the current situation, and we offered to work from now on for a new proposal which ambitiously addresses the shortcomings of the last decree. While we could consider it as a starting point for further progress in price regulation, we believe that price regulation cannot be delayed any longer. It is therefore necessary to provide cities with the necessary tools to enable them to regulate the price on the basis of their peculiarities, for example, by means of taxation instruments directly linked to the rent price or to the situation of unoccupied housing. There are some measures that we believe should be taken into account to solve this serious problem, and that we believe they should be included in the new decree they are preparing. I briefly summarize them, and we reach out to them to reach agreements. Prohibition of evictions without housing alternatives; the suffering that produces the more than sixty thousand launches per year will not be avoided with a month of moratorium on execution. It is essential that Law 24/2015, adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia and ratified by the Constitutional Court, be implemented in the rest of the State. Prohibition of evictions with an open date. Affordable rentals; it is very important, and urgent, to regulate rental prices between contract and contract, based on indices that take into account the purchasing power of the citizenry. Price increases are already regulated in various ways in countries such as Denmark, Austria, Sweden, Germany, Holland, Ireland and Italy. In addition, increases under the same contract must be closely linked to the CPI. With regard to the vulture funds, it is imperative to change the tax regime of the Socimis, financial vehicles that enjoy enormous fiscal privileges without any counterpart, and that allow the funds to grab and speculate massively with our homes, operating as a spearhead of the bubble. Finally, the mobilization of empty housing in a housing emergency context and in a country with 3.4 million empty housing, according to the latest census. I believe that the conclusion we should draw is that we cannot put patches on a serious problem such as housing, especially public and regulated housing, if we do not tackle the fundamental problem of market regulation. It's over, President. Minister, we have once again reached out to you in order to solve this very serious problem, and I look forward to your response to our interpretation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. The Minister for Development then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u321	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. To the clear and direct question that you asked me at the beginning of your speech, if this was PSOE's policy, when I was commenting on last Friday's evictions, I will tell you that obviously that is not PSOE's policy; PSOE's policy is based precisely on preventing those dramas. As for whether I'm ashamed, I'd say something else. The indignation that these dramatic situations actually produce is also accompanied by a sense of frustration as a public representative unable to carry out measures to prevent that, and I believe that this is to a large extent what I was trying to do when I presented the decree for which I did not get the support of the House. That defeat I did not see as such, even though the headlines spoke of political defeat; I lived it in another way, I lived it as a certain frustration and impotence with regard to the mandate we have, which is to try to solve people's problems and not measure ourselves around our possibilities. But I too have the constructive and positive spirit, because in the end we come here to overcome these other drawbacks that I was commenting on. Therefore my purpose is to try to fix it, to try to seek the greatest agreement so that these situations do not happen again. I can assure you that housing policy has been and continues to be one of the priorities of this Government, even at this particular moment, in which we are faced with a forthcoming call for general elections. Indeed, this Government has been working since the first day to put on the table concrete improvements that will transform the reality that we are in on our arrival. The necessary measures for the right to housing have played a prominent role in the policies of the Ministry. We also wanted him to have the treatment that deserves the importance of the subject. For this we have encouraged some of the actions that I am going to comment on. The first is that we constitute an interministerial working group for the development of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent, to coordinate with other administrations the necessary measures in the area of housing and rent. This working group was born with the priority mission of detailing the diagnosis and promoting short-, medium- and long-term measures that would enable us to develop our housing policy in depth and with adequate solidity. Secondly, we have signed the partnership agreements for the implementation of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 with the Autonomous Communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. This allowed the autonomous administrations to call for aid from the various programmes covered by the plan. In compliance with these agreements, we transfer the amount committed to each of the Autonomous Communities and to the Autonomous Cities. The Ministry of Development has ordered the payment of a total of more than 328 million euros to meet the housing subsidies of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021. We have also launched the 20 000 Housing Plan for Affordable or Social Rental. It was necessary to start with the creation and rehabilitation of a rental housing stock, making all available means. This necessarily implied a reconsideration of an essential instrument with which the Ministry of Development, such as the Soil Business Public Entity, Sepes, had practically abandoned residential promotion activity over the past few years. Last year we transferred 21.5 million euros to Sepes to start with the drive of this housing park, and to promote the construction of more than 5000 houses on Sepes land to be used for social or affordable rent. In this year 2019 we have begun the processing of a budgetary amendment to equip Sepes with an amount of 24.5 million euros. More than 1500 affordable and social rents have to be added to these 5000 housing units, the financing of which the Ministry of Development has committed itself to participate, within the framework of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 and whose management has already begun. To this end, the Ministry of Development has signed agreements with eight autonomous communities that have wanted to participate in this increase of the housing park for rent; in particular with the communities of Andalusia, Asturias, Balearic Islands, Castile and León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Madrid and Murcia. On the other hand, we adopted a real decree-law of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent - which unfortunately, as you know, was not validated by this House - with the aim of finding a balance between three fundamental variables: firstly, to provide the tenants and tenants with a situation of balance of strength between the two parties; secondly, to provide sufficient legal certainty to the market, and thirdly, to create the conditions necessary to increase the existence of a larger rental housing stock. This Royal Decree-Law improved the regulatory framework for rent, amended the Civil Prosecution Act to ensure that social services play an essential role in judicial proceedings, amended the Horizontal Property Act to promote accessibility of homeowners'communities, and regulated fiscal and economic aspects to enable housing actions by local entities. It was a change that would help remove barriers and alleviate the serious social housing deficit in our country. In addition, as a demonstration of the rigour with which we wanted to take on all these matters, last September we published the Rental Bulletin, the Housing and Soil Observatory, promoting access to information and transparency in this market. This newsletter aims to provide information on an activity that has traditionally been marked by a smaller volume of data and information if compared to the sales market. For its elaboration, we request information from the Tax Administration, the General Council of Notaries, the College of Property Registrars, as well as the administrative records of leases or bond deposits, which operate in accordance with the laws of some autonomous communities. We integrate all these available data from the main official statistical sources to improve knowledge of the current situation and to continuously monitor the evolution of the residential sector. We have also drawn up the Spanish Urban Agenda, which we raised for consideration to the Council of Ministers last Friday. It is a non-policy strategic document that aligns with the international commitments undertaken by Spain through the 2030 Agenda, the new United Nations Urban Agenda and the Urban Agenda for the European Union. It has been the realization of a commitment by the Government to achieve equitable, just and sustainable urban development that takes into account all the towns and cities of Spain, regardless of their size and population, and under the triple prism of economic, social and environmental sustainability. With it we have wanted to respond to the challenges and needs that the world of today poses to us. We have also started work on improving financing through ICO, with a view to improving access to credit for the promotion of rented housing, rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal, exploring collaborative formulas with ICO to create specific funding lines to develop these activities. We also believe that there is a need to further strengthen collaboration in this area with all financial institutions. Another work that we have begun in the ministry is the development of a state law on housing, with the collaboration of a group of experts. It is necessary to develop a basic legal regime that responds to the social role of housing, configuring social housing as a public service that guarantees the equality of Spaniards in the exercise of their right to housing throughout the national territory. As you know, the Constitutional Court has accused the State of resorting to the housing laws that are being adopted by the autonomous communities, without the State itself having yet to set the basic and uniform parameters that should set the constitutional limit of those laws. Thus, never before, despite the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities in the area of housing, has it been so timely to face the task of drafting a basic state law on housing, ensuring compliance with constitutional principles and competences. Thus, the draft that we started was intended to regulate for the whole Spanish territory the basic conditions that guarantee equality in the exercise of rights and in the fulfilment of constitutional duties related to housing, as well as to establish a uniform regulation of the most essential aspects of public housing policies as a fundamental economic sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. In short, and as I have said, we have implemented a social housing policy, promoting measures to facilitate the enjoyment of decent and adequate housing. We hope to be able to continue in the next parliamentary term, but we do not give up what is left of it so that we can put in place measures to alleviate and solve the urgent problems of citizens in the area of housing. There is no doubt that all of them must be accompanied by additional measures, in which this Government, as I say to you, continues to work. And as we want to continue taking further steps, we have offered on numerous occasions, the President of the Government and myself, in this House, both you and the other groups present here, to reach a state pact for the social role of housing in which all these measures are included and can be agreed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u322	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mr Margall Sastre.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u323	Thank you, Minister, for your intervention. I think your answer perfectly sums up what these eight months of PSOE government have been. I remember perfectly when the vote on the motion of censure for the PP triumphed. I saw him from home, because, in fact, he took possession of himself as a Member of Parliament at the first plenary session after the motion. I remember well the cries of 'yes can' from the comrades of Podemos and President Sánchez talking about the government of change and the beginning of a new era. Indeed, they could, but they did not; in fact, we could, but you, the PSOE government, did not. And they show us again by presenting a new housing decree, which they facilitated yesterday afternoon, without going back into the background of the issue: how rent prices are regulated; what decisions we make so that the rental bubble does not expel dozens of families from their homes every day. Think, Minister, of the general interest of citizens and not of the pressures of vulture funds that speculate on the fundamental rights of citizens. When we vote that no to the previous royal decree we reach out to them to find solutions. We know that they are not easy, that they will not be implemented quickly, but we can no longer take longer and, above all, we cannot leave the cities alone any longer trying to patch up the very serious housing problems in their neighborhoods. Be brave, minister. There are many examples in Europe of measures aimed at solving this problem. Today we read it in public: 'Berlin plans to hold a referendum to expropriate thousands of homes in the big real estate companies in the face of rising prices'. On average, Berliners allocate almost 46 % of their income to this item. In fact, they have not been the only subjects where they have been able and unwilling. We offered them our vows to repeal the Law gag. In fact, President Sánchez first promised to repeal it; then, when they were already in the government, he said they were going to modify it; then they were going to delete some article; finally, they wanted to make a simple make-up. In the end, as the legislature rushes, the law will remain in force. They could, but they didn't want to. I'm finishing up, President. A message for all so-called constitutionalists. Yesterday I arrived at the office, I guess as a final legislative gift, this copy of the Constitution I don't know if it should be considered embezzlement of public funds to give a constitution to an independentist who is forty-three years old and who has never been able to vote in a referendum on it, since he was only three years old when he voted; I don't know. [[shows it.]] Article 47 of the Constitution states: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. The community will participate in the gains generated by the urban action of public authorities.' Therefore, stop using the Constitution as a bold weapon against those who are dissidents and who want to end the 78's regime. And if they are so constitutionalists, they comply with their Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u325	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking very briefly. Indeed, there is the constitutional mandate, and this government, supported by the Socialist Party, is very clear that it does not respond to any dogmatic part of the Constitution, but has an imperative mandate; we interpret it, because it also responds to our conception of housing as a right. Indeed, the Spanish Constitution has full force because it has much to develop. Precisely, that is his great virtue: his ability to develop and his up-to-dateness. But it also has much to say about the constituents of that moment who forty years ago had the vision of what we have not yet been able to accomplish. I did vote for the Constitution, I always say; it was my first vote, of which I feel tremendously proud, because my first vote went to no particular party, but was to vote yes to the Constitution. And I did it from the left that had most fought the regime, militating on the most generous left that this country has ever known. Therefore, I am proud of that part, and that is why my interpretation of the Constitution differs greatly from those who simply learned it, hopefully in a manual. I have felt it and I still feel it and, therefore, I feel committed to its full development. In addition, I will tell you something else, and it is that I feel ideologically very attached to it, precisely because of my political trajectory. I am deeply social democrat, because I prefer immediate conquests that improve the living conditions of those who need it most, day by day, than not to pretend everything to end in anything. I don't like politics that produces frustration. I don't like the policy that postpones satisfaction. I like to improve, so be it every day a little more, people's living conditions. And I don't think we'll often bring 60% over 100%; we're still 60 or 40%; but 60, 40, 30 or 70% is always more than zero, and you always gain space, and you always move on. That's my way of understanding politics. And along with that, I have the optimism of who wants to transform. That is why, even if I have lost that debate, I am prepared to submit to anyone else, because optimism accompanies me in this. The important thing is to respond to all this we share. The thing is, with the limbs we have, what we can get out. Sometimes we tie on one side, but it breaks on the other, and that's the big problem. What there is is what there is; the limbs are the ones we have and the majorities that we can achieve will be with what is present here. It is therefore likely that we would have incorporated some of his requests, but other support would have gone away. What we have to get is to get out what meets some urgent needs, but that is viable, because, if not, that is witness politics, and there yes, that already gets me older to make testimonies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u326	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the urgent adoption of measures to combat morosity in economic activity to prevent the imposition of perjudicious charges on SMEs. [[Señor CAMPUZANO]] [[File number 172/000180]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u327	We shall now discuss the following question. The Joint Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the urgent adoption of measures to combat late payments in economic activity to prevent non-payment of invoices from harming SMEs. For your defence, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u328	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our question - the last of this parliamentary term - concerns an issue that we attach great importance to. I would like to remind you that almost two years ago we presented a proposal for a law which has not reached a good place, but which, in any case, implies the recognition of a reality. Businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, and self-employed people have a lot of difficulties - one of the most obvious and the most problematic is the slowness of business - difficulties which, together with others - the excessive funding, the lack of capitalisation - were decisive at the time of a major crisis. Many companies that would otherwise have been able to survive perfectly, due to the lateness, because their customers were late in paying, encountered an important treasury problem that conditioned their present and future viability. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been settled. There was an important initiative in this regard, the first transposition of the European directive in 2004, which improved the situation in relation to a bad one. There have also been various legislative amendments, some of which have also resulted from the transposition of the directive, but we still believe that the situation today is precarious. Before yesterday, data were presented by the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, which I will then remind you of, and the reality is that the improvement in payment deadlines over the last few years, together with an improvement in the economic situation, has made this problem not perhaps so latent, but rather fundamental, because, Minister, if there is to be a rebound or a slowdown in our economy there will be businesses and self-employed people who are going to have a very bad time. Law 3/2004, on combating late payment, laid down certain payment periods which should be respected, but which have not been respected during these fifteen years. It also introduced measures that required improvement. If these payment periods were not respected, the creditor could claim the relevant interest, but the reality is that in 86 % of the cases such interest is not claimed. In addition, compensation can be claimed for the cost of charging unpaid amounts, which in 94% of cases is not claimed, because there is a dependency on some customers or large customers and the business relationship is put at risk if interest on delay or compensation is required. The reality is that small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people do not end up demanding these compensations. Therefore, from our perspective, it is absolutely necessary that a sanctioning regime be put in place within the competent administration - in our case, the autonomous communities - in order to have the obligation, the power and the possibility of establishing a gradation of sanctions. We - as we recalled - had put this bill in the Senate, in June 2015, and Citizens had done it in Congress, but the complexity and management of legislative initiatives and perhaps the lack of agility of the different tables have made it impossible today. In them we set out a very simple approach: minor infringements, serious infringements, very serious infringements and sanctions with a transitional period that would make it possible. The paper has been set up and has made a great deal of progress and, therefore, they already have this work at their disposal, but beyond the paper, which is strictly a matter for this House, we ask it to tell us what the Government's position is on the need for this sanctioning regime to avoid the resurgence of business lateness. I reminded him that the Multisectoral Platform for Combating Morosity has presented 2018 data this week. They are worrying data: in the private sector the delay in the fulfilment of their obligations increases by 4 days and amounts to 81 days - I remind you that it is 60 days - the legal deadline. This is the average; there will be those paying with less term and cases in which the term is not 81 days, but 100, 120, 160 and 180 days. In the public sector there is also a 3-day rebound. Since 2010, it is the first one where there is a rebound in these figures. Therefore, we understand that we must act quickly and we would like to know your position on this. In turn, there are other variables in corporate lateness. We, in our legislative initiative and in our amendments, were also trying to remedy a problem, which is the one that generates the uncollected VAT. There are things that are easy to solve. A modification was introduced a few years ago whereby part of the VAT could be recovered from unpaid invoices, but there are restrictions that make a large part of the unpaid VAT not yet recoverable by the companies: when the customer is not a company, the invoices of less than 300 euros cannot be recovered; when more than three months have passed since the default and the company has not requested it, it cannot recover it, and some more. I would also like to know what the Government's position is on this issue. I would also like to know whether or not you intend to modify Lorcomin as far as possible, in the case of non-fresh products, a freedom of pacts which has generated many demands and complaints from certain sectors, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to know what your approach is with regard to the obligation to implement the electronic invoice. In the presentation of the Public Sector Contracts Act, at the request of my group and this Member, we put in place the obligation of electronic invoice in the case of contractors and subcontractors, specifically with regard to public service contracts. The results have been good; the experience has proved to be good. We understand that this obligation should be extended from the electronic invoice, because it would be very easy to determine whether or not the payments should be made. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to tell us what the Government's approach is. Over the last few months, trying to negotiate this joint legislative proposal by Citizens and the Democratic Party, we have been somewhat disconcerted by some groups, also by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and the instructions of the Government have not been clear on this. I would therefore like you to take advantage of this last question. The truth is that there will be no motion for an inquiry, but I would like to hear your approach, your proposal and whether you intend to act on it in the short term. Finally, if I may, ladies and gentlemen, although I am going to have another speaking time later and tomorrow I will also have to speak on several points on the agenda, the generosity of this inquiry in terms of time allows me to say a few words to you. This and the previous parliamentary term have been very hard for this Member, from a personal and political point of view. I have seen how my spokesman was disqualified throughout this legislature; I have seen how 155 was applied unfairly and arbitrarily to Catalonia; I have seen how comrades, friends, members of the legitimate Government of the Generalitat have been imprisoned absolutely unjustly in a pre-trial prison that these days is shown to have no reason to be; I have seen and have seen how political prisoners exist in the Spanish State. Beyond that, I would like to say a few words of thanks to you, in some cases from the absolute political discrepancy. I am grateful that I have been able to work together to reach agreements and in some cases to disagree. I regret that among all of us we have not been able to establish those bridges, those agreements, those tables of dialogue that society demanded of us and continues to demand of us beyond our personal and political positions. I thank you for your work. It's been a pleasure working with you. I would also like to say a few words of thanks to all the services of the House, obviously to the lawyers, and also to all of you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bel, the truth is that I am glad that I have this question, because we certainly share the need to take measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I agree with you that we need to analyse well what measures we can take to combat late payment of businesses, late payment which is mainly detrimental to SMEs and the self-employed. We need to define what regulation we have in order to be able to change it effectively and without in any way hindering economic activity. The delay in payment times to suppliers is a factor that directly affects the competitiveness of our small and medium-sized enterprises and prevents them from being properly financed, putting their viability at risk, as you have said. From the ministry I run we are carrying out a specific policy focused on SMEs, in which I certainly hope to count on your help for several reasons. Firstly, because of the very importance of SMEs in the Spanish economy and in the Catalan economy - and this would only be justified, because in Spain the SME accounts for 99.8% of enterprises, almost 62 % of gross value added and 66.5% of total business employment - and secondly because of the need to respond to the new challenges of an increasingly globalised economy by digitisation, green transition and the circular economy, and thirdly because of the guidelines emanating from the European Commission. Specifically, SMEs with employees currently account for 46% of our businesses, employ more than 8 million workers and account for 53% of total business employment. Therefore, its relevance implies that any policy aimed at improving the positioning of our country in a global economic environment will certainly give priority consideration to SMEs. Immersed, as I said, in a process of digitization, of unprecedented globalization, SMEs cannot stay behind; they can and must play a leading role in the generation of innovation, in this digital transformation, and thereby improve productivity and also their ability to develop new products and differential processes; a protagonist that undoubtedly allows them to be an active part in the process of strengthening the dynamism of the Spanish economy. He said that the new challenges make it necessary to take a step further in defining a specific SME-centred policy that avoids the dispersion that currently exists and that follows the guidelines of the European Union, mainly, and of other international bodies and that marks the way for the growth and competitiveness of the Spanish SME. Although there is a common rule in the European Union on combating late payment in commercial transactions, which has been correctly transposed into Spanish law, the reality is that there is still a great deal of room for improvement, both in payments by public administrations and above all in the case of late payment between companies. I am sure you share with me, Mr Bel, that monitoring the evolution of late payment is not simple, as there are different sources to calculate the delay in payment periods. It is also difficult to measure average payment periods; it is a complex issue that requires a thorough analysis of its causes and that affects many sectors of our economic activity. If we see, for example, the evolution of the lateness of public administrations in recent months according to the official data published by the Ministry of Finance, we note that the 30-day obligation to pay according to current legislation is far from being fulfilled. However, the central administration and the autonomous communities have a payment period of approximately 33 days, according to the latest data, but in the local entities it is around 59 days. With regard to the follow-up of the payment periods of business operations, Cepyme's newsletter of lateness based on a survey of companies allows us to know three basic elements: the situation regarding delays in the collection and payment of commercial transactions between SMEs; how to deal with the financing of their activity and, undoubtedly and very important, their opinion on the business climate, the regulatory environment and the risks that affect them. As far as the lateness of the commercial operations to which I refer is concerned, this bulletin also notes the failure to comply with the maximum period of 60 days laid down by the regulations; however, when we analyse the data according to the economic sectors, we see important differences that I also want to point out. For example, the agri-food sector is the branch of activity that best behaves in relation to the average payment period, while other sectors, such as textiles or construction and promotion, accumulate the greatest delay in the payment period, which exceeds 90 days. I share with you, as I have already said, that lateness is a very damaging aspect for companies, especially for SMEs and self-employed people, who are undoubtedly the ones who suffer the most normally, because they depend on suppliers from large companies. It is a clear element that hinders access to new funding and reduces its competitiveness at both the national and international levels. Your Honor, as you have said, since the plenary session of both Houses took place at the end of June 2017 in Congress and in the Senate, it has been two years since this parliamentary process has advanced; there has been, in your opinion, a delaying activity that does not correspond to the willingness of the groups to approve the consideration of both initiatives. As you know, during 2017 - he has said - two legislative proposals were started to amend Law 3/2004 establishing measures to combat late payment. The first proposal is aimed at regulating a sanctioning regime and the second consists mainly of an arbitral system, the creation of a State observatory and also of a sanctioning regime among other measures. In July 2018, already with this formed government, both papers agree to request the House table to recast in a single text and, therefore, the grouping of both legislative initiatives under the title: proposed law on measures to combat late payment in commercial operations. At the previous session from September to December last year, the parliamentary groups were working on the amendments tabled, but with the closure of the legislature, as the honourable Member points out, an expectation is frustrated for thousands of SMEs who hoped that this regulation would finally articulate a sanctioning regime to combat late payment between companies and also sufficient measures to give greater legal certainty to commercial relations. As you know, the current state of this bill that is in the Committee on Economy and Enterprise to issue a report - as you have said - is waiting for an agreement to be reached. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, with the advice of the Government, has been very active in the development of legislative proposals in order to regulate this regime of infringements and sanctions. A timely arbitration regime has been proposed through compromise amendments to facilitate the resolution of defaults - in addition, with the advice of the State Council of the SME, which was called upon to reach the Government - as well as the development of codes of good practice and the establishment of lists of good payers. Since we got to the government, as I say, we've been working. We have also promoted the development of what will be the strategic framework in SME policy 2030, working over the past eight months to develop a strategy with the advice of the SME State Council that is pending approval by the Council of Ministers; a strategy that incorporates, as I say, that advice from the advisory council with the recommendation to the Government to introduce a sanctioning regime, also an arbitration system of lateness, as well as the adoption of codes of good practice. Without a doubt, incorporating in this strategy the very important issue of lateness will allow us to move forward. That strategy is already waiting to be taken to the Council of Ministers, we hope to adopt it before 28 April and to equip ourselves with tools to solve this great problem, which is the slowness of the SME and thus contribute to the continued creation of wealth and employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u331	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u332	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to make some comments and some more concrete request than we have heard. I think we agreed on the diagnosis. It is true that there is no explicit mechanism to measure or measure exactly the business lateness, but it will also agree with me that the Cepyme survey is already being used, the Multisectoral Platform Against Morosity survey is being used, the analysis of the data of the Central Balances of the Banco de España is being used or the analysis of the annual accounts of any of the companies or large companies, the diagnosis is clear and not being fulfilled and, as it is not being fulfilled, action must be taken. We understand that the most explicit and direct way to act in the short term is to establish a sanctioning regime which, from our point of view, I sincerely say to you, has no further delay. It is true what you said about the timetable for the processing of our legislative initiative and that of Citizens, but the unification of the two in one is a usual practice when there is an initiative that is approved in Congress and another that is approved in the Senate. It is true that this took longer than we would have liked and that in both parts of the legislature the bureaux of the economic commissions have not been - although I am not a part, I also assume - flexible enough, but it is that the agreement is practically closed and has been closed for a few weeks. There are some elements of discrepancy and I tell you that we could have even dispensed with them only so that the common elements could be approved. I would venture to say that at this time 90% of the papers are actually applicable. This is an element that, from our point of view, reduces our competitiveness, it is an element that generates a differential situation with regard to companies located in other countries, which work with other margins. At the moment the average payment period in the private sector in France is around sixty days, in Germany around twenty days and we are over eighty days. This in turn - I have not said this in my previous speech - has a cost: at the moment the financial cost of corporate lateness in the Spanish State exceeds EUR 1 billion. Imagine the competitiveness that our companies, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, could gain if they could have these resources. Therefore, from our point of view, we would like to have a clear and explicit commitment from the Government on the need to implement this sanctioning regime. I would like to see the commitment not from all the groups, because they will not be able to intervene, but from the group that supports the Government that these papers can be respected. Madam Minister - and I would like you to give me an answer in this regard - we are not in favour of passing real decrees-laws to be validated by the Permanent Chamber, we are not, I sincerely say, but if you exercise this possibility of establishing the existing legislation, we explicitly ask you to carry one specifically where you approve the sanctioning regime for combating late business operations and to do so with 90% of the agreements of the paper, which are majority, because it would not be understood that you would like to make reforms through real decrees-laws in the Permanent Chamber in some respects and that you would not do so in an aspect that, from our point of view, is paramount, generates competitiveness for our small and medium-sized enterprises and we would also convey a vision of modernity and efficiency of our business sector. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u334	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bel, I think we share the need for that law being processed to have given time for its adoption. [[The lady]] It was a law that strengthened and gave more guarantees to SMEs to solve that problem they have against lateness but, as you have said, it has not given time. For two years it has been dilated in time. In fact, when we arrived at the Government we resumed that initiative and the Socialist Parliamentary Group pushed the meetings so that we could come up with a good law. Let me tell you, Your Honor, that you have not given time because, as a result of your parliamentary group's vetoing the budgets together with the People's and Citizens' Party, the end of the legislature has accelerated and precipitated. The truth, Your Honor, is that it is a shame that we do not have time to approve these regulatory changes, which are certainly very positive for many small and medium-sized enterprises. But precipitating the end of the legislature has prevented the adoption of measures that are certainly good for our SMEs and which unfortunately will have to wait. In any case, I would like to acknowledge the work done by all the parliamentary groups in this bill and also in the amendments that have been tabled to improve the situation of SMEs. In short, I believe that the parliamentary groups could have agreed - you said - on three fundamental elements: the first, the establishment of a sanctioning regime; the second, the development of an arbitration system of agile and effective lateness; and the third, improving transparency through the creation of an observatory for the promotion of codes of good practice and also by considering the possibility of implementing positive solvency files in companies to promote competition and security. I am sure that all these measures can give rise to the majority agreement of all the parliamentary groups for the next parliamentary term, and in particular yours, by proposing one of the laws. I pledge to push them forward in the next legislature with the consensus of the State Council of the SME, where, as you know, all the autonomous communities, the local government, business and trade union organizations of the state and intersectoral sphere most representative of the SMEs, also the corporate confederations of social economy with greater implementation at the state level and the Higher Council of Chambers of Commerce of Spain. I repeat that, without doubt, it has been a priority for this parliamentary group and for the Government to adopt measures against lateness, it will be so in the next parliamentary term and we will agree with the parliamentary groups on this sanctioning regime for SMEs, which is certainly a compromise that I make today in the parliamentary chamber. He told him that within the State Framework of the SME 2030 we have put a very important axis to fight against the lateness that I hope will give us time to take to the Council of Ministers before 28 April, undoubtedly a commitment of this government to fight against lateness, to equip SMEs with greater tools to continue their productive activity and to generate employment and wealth throughout the territory. Before concluding and today being my last speech at the plenary session of Congress in this legislature, they will allow me to dedicate a few words of thanks to the work of the parliamentary groups on this issue, that of lateness, for practicing something that unfortunately is not fashionable today. It is not fashionable, as I say, to make policy useful to citizens. In these times of so much noise, so much friction, blockades and vetoes, the policy of dialogue, debate and agreement must undoubtedly be claimed. Mr Bell, you have not given time, you have said it, we have been ready, but certainly the debate in this legislature has been another, it has been a debate of rift, of veto, of delay. It has already been said today throughout the whole House how many legislative initiatives have been vetoed by the Bureau, by the parliamentary groups, that what they have done has been to extend over time the periods for the processing of amendments for so many important initiatives - it has been said here - such as the law on euthanasia, such as the law on the gender gap, such as the law on equality between men and women, and this gap which makes us cover less, which has made us still needing this useful policy which I repeat and which will undoubtedly allow us, with the debate, to face up to that dialogue between the groups, the one that comes, in which I hope to be part of this government again, and the commitment to work for SMEs, because we certainly need a government that is on its side and needs measures as important as the one we are defending today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u335	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Implementation of the Government to Abort the Phenomenon of Irregular Immigration AND FIGHT AGAINST THE ILLEGAL TRAFFIC OF PERSONS. [[File number 172/000181]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u336	We turn to the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's action to address the phenomenon of irregular immigration and to combat illegal trafficking in persons. I have the floor for your defence, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u337	Thank you very much, Madam President, with your veneration. Ladies and gentlemen, on 29 June last, the Council of Ministers approved the establishment of the Government Delegated Committee on Migration, which would be chaired by the Vice-President of the Government. Nothing new, as the former People's Party Government set up a working group to address the migration challenge. You, Minister, preferred to turn it into the delegated commission. Well, if it's any use, they raise him from rank and do more, but it hasn't been so, do less. Minister, we have asked you to appear here, in this inquiry, to explain the government's lines, because after eight months no one knows what the government's immigration lines are. They have not been able to explain it and, moreover, have been permanently confused. They've always been playing the clock, they've been doing things that aren't right at the same time. Today, the Vice-President of the Government should be here responding to this question, because she is responsible for coordinating the Government's action, she is the Chair of the Delegated Committee on Migration Affairs and she was here - as you will recall - on 20 June talking about the Aquarius as a genuine humanitarian action and she is the one who came back here on 12 September to say how her Government was going to implement an emergency plan and how they had put the immigration problem on the table in Europe. Since then, little or nothing has come to our attention about the Vice-President, who was responsible for coordinating immigration. Twice the Minister of Labour has been here answering these questions and the rest of the questions and inquiries have come to you. Therefore, Minister, the first thing is to thank him for his attendance at this inquiry and, in general, to thank him for his contribution to the government. It couldn't have been because you've been in a failed government, a false government. I guess you tried, but you didn't come out. I imagine that when someone with proven professional experience is offered to enter politics, that someone tries and, if he fails to do so, resigns. I guess you've done the first, you've tried, and I know you haven't done the second. I also believe that you have been in the shortest government of democracy, but also the worst government of democracy, the worst and much different. If the aim of this government was to call immediate elections and it was not done and then we had to spend eight months of shame with an executive who puts Spain in a currency to buy time, you have already entered the government of lies with a lie of entry. Your Honor, I do not intend to judge you, I am not who to do it, I only express an opinion that may or may not be shared. In addition, to me you are a person with a proven track record and I recognize that it was difficult to do well in an impossible government. You already know the saying of quod natura non dat, Salmantica non præstat. It is not because of you, but because this has been a government against nature. That is why you have not fulfilled anything you have promised in this House on repeated occasions. For this reason, in immigration his policy has been full of bandages and contradictions, by the very nature of his Government, more of a mismanagement than of another costal. Some things have been directed by you and others not, so not everything is implausible to you, but to your Government. The truth is that since Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa we have witnessed, ladies and gentlemen, the spectacle of using immigration as a political strategy, with directions in one direction and the other. There can never be good management by acting that way. In June we attended the reception of the Aquarius in the port of Valencia with a whole show of light and sound, with drums and platter, as a beacon guide of the effect called and of the mafias, because that was precisely what happened, but came December and we saw as the boat Open Arms, which was supposed to be one of the government's allies in Salvamento Marítimo, was blocked in the port of Barcelona. The Open Arms is joined by the Aita Mari, also blocked for similar reasons in Guipúzcoa. Previously, we had seen how the Open Arms was forced to leave the port of Motril because they could not work there because the agreements that the Government had promised had not been signed. A change of position, a correction in every rule, ladies and gentlemen, which the Government has not wanted to explain in this House. Zero transparency for your government, Minister. Also, a few months ago the Spanish fishing company Nuestra Señora del Loreto was lost at sea with twelve immigrants on board, in the face of the refusals of the same government that a few days earlier was accepting the arrival of another boat. The European Union had to correct the Spanish Government by recalling that Libya was not a safe port, as the Vice-President of the Government, Carmen Calvo, and the Minister of Development, Mr Ábalos, said on that date. What was to be the immediate end of the concertinas, which you have said here and maintained during many plenary sessions, has become a bath of reality in the face of an unprecedented situation on the southern border of Spain and Europe and the massive assaults on the fences of Ceuta and Melilla, which have had to be controlled by the State Security Forces and Bodies, to which we offer our full support from here. From what seemed to be the great miracle of the intergovernmental conference responsible for approving the Global Compact on Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, we have only known that, the still president, Pedro Sánchez, from the egocentrism to which we are accustomed, set himself an example of goodism once again. Solutions, zero on the part of Pedro Sánchez; to confront the immigration situation, in no way; to lead the European Union, for another occasion. That was Mr Sánchez's policy, ladies and gentlemen. Meanwhile, we saw how the number of immigrants multiplied since the arrival of the Socialist Party government, growing to 170% more than in the first half of 2018, doubling the figures compared to 2017 and multiplying by 7, Minister, the figures for 2016. According to IOM, in 2018 160 people arrived in Spain a day playing life. This issue is even more heartbreaking in the case of the unaccompanied foreign minors MENA, who have gone from just over 6200 in April 2018 to 12,437 at the end of the same year, being used by the mafias as an attraction for illegal human trafficking. Minister, in January 2019, the increase over the already collapsed year of 2018 was no more than 173 %. In this way, in the face of the negatives of Italy and Malta, Spain became the safe route for immigration into the Central and Western Mediterranean without having the European Union. In the face of an unsustainable situation, as with the crisis of the cayucos, Spain with the Socialist Party is once again an easy land, eye!, not for immigrants but for the illegal activity of the mafias, an activity defined in the Penal Code and included in the reforms made by the People's Party in 2000 and 2015. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the press that the government has commissioned a report that would allow it to develop a plan to reduce immigration by 50%, but again none of that has been explained in this House by your government, Minister. Mr Sánchez's government's zero transparency. It is one more havoc in your immigration policy, which adds to the irresponsible budgets that you presented a few weeks ago in this House and which is another fake, as another fake is your government and everything you have put in place, Your Honor. The Government of Sánchez seems to be deaf to article 149.1.2a of the Constitution, which states that the Government is responsible for the definition, planning and regulation and development of migration policy. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that this government has spent the eight months giving real havoc in this migration policy. Look at the paradox, of the shelters welcoming 50% less than they now want with this report and with that plan. At this time they have gone from waving with their government partners that flag of Mrs Carmena's welcome refuges to asking for reports that will allow them to reduce immigration to 50%, and none of this have explained in this House, and to signing agreements with Morocco so that Maritime Rescue can return there to the immigrants it collects. What will happen, Your Honor, if they are minors or if they are asylum seekers? Have you really thought about how to carry out this measure? Can you explain how they're going to do it in these weeks, if you're going to give them time to do it? Do you know what you're playing with, ladies? With the lives of people, with their illusions, with their dreams, with the desperate people who fall into the hands of the mafias and who do not care to play their life to reach Spain and Europe. That is what fuels your disconcerting policy and that is what really means the so-called effect that we have so many times reminded you here, Minister. I take advantage of the fact that you are in order to put to him otherwise the effect called. The effect called is to encourage the mafias to put the offer extortion, to sell more tickets anywhere, to continue to take advantage of the fact that they have nothing to lose to get to Spain. The so-called effect is to feed criminal organizations. Let me remind you that the Mafia business, the illegal trafficking of human beings, is a crime covered by the Criminal Code whose reforms were demonstrated and launched by the People's Party. Especially to you, Your Honor, I ask you to enforce the law and reason above the very good and above the photo. In the remaining weeks, I ask you to be more firm in the fight against the mafias. That is where we must strike more forcefully, against the mafias, with all the force of the law, and less photos, Your Honor, because migration policy is not a matter of a photo; migration policy is a matter of State, it is a competence of the Government of Spain recognized in the Constitution and an issue important enough and delicate enough to be given all the attention of the Government. Think, Your Honor, about what we are telling you from the People's Party, what we have told you from the beginning with institutional loyalty and always to improve the situation, because in these eight months you have only made the situation worse. That is the drama of what we have experienced in immigration and in so many other aspects of the Government, because we have moved from creating jobs to destroying jobs with your Government and from an immigration situation that was controlled to an uncontrolled situation. We therefore ask you here to explain in your turn the lines that the Government has developed and also, in the few weeks left, the position that your Government is going to take on immigration and, above all, to ask you to accept the challenge that we have always offered you, which is to walk together to address this problem from the institutional strength and not from the demagoguery that your Government has shown in these months. Nothing more, Your Honor, and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. On behalf of the Government, you have the floor, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u339	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rojas, first of all, and as I mentioned earlier in the monitoring session to the Government, one of the questions which distorts the truth betrays public relations. Montaigne; I recommend it. Following without acrid, I ask you if you do not feel, Mr Rojas, ridiculous when you go up to this rostrum to oppose yourself, and without acrid, I repeat. Don't you realize that speaking in the tone in which they do it about immigration has nothing of humanity? You don't realize that, do you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u341	No writing. [[Laughter]] Thank you, President. I remind you that in Spain from 2013 to 2017 irregular arrivals of migrants by sea and land increased by 301,2 % - it should be controlled -. While citizens have the right to know what is being done, they also have the right to know what is not being done. You will understand that the state of public security that we find when we arrive at the Government was a lack of resources, lack of staff and lack of coordination, but I am going to answer you about what this Government is doing. Over the past eight months, since the Socialist Party came to the government, irregular immigration and the fight against illegal human trafficking has been one of the priorities of this ministry and of this minister. Migration is one of the major global challenges that generates positive effects on countries and societies when it is legal, secure and orderly. Therefore, combating irregular immigration, trafficking in persons and trafficking in human beings is my main responsibility. Irregular migration generates imbalances and rights violations, both in the societies of countries of origin and transit and in those of destination. Unlike other illicit trafficking and other cross-border crimes, in the case of irregular immigration, the mafia traffics with people, many of them vulnerable as women and minors. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to better understand the reality, I advise you to start with the origin. The causes that lead many young people to leave their countries of origin are much more powerful than those that we hypothetically believe to generate an attraction or, in other words, on the neighbouring African continent the fledgling effect is the main cause of migratory movements. They flee from hunger, flee from injustice, flee out of fear, seeking an opportunity. They flee deceived and flee from extreme needs. If we want to find reasons between ourselves, let us look at the European Union. The European Union generates attraction. The difference in per capita GDP between the two shores of the Mediterranean is the main reason for the decision to emigrate and this makes immigration a structural phenomenon of this time. We are not facing a new reality or a new trend. As you know, Spain, due to its proximity to the main African countries of origin of immigration to Europe, was already the gateway to the European Union in 2006, in particular, 31,678 people who arrived mainly in the Canary Islands. Then we were able together to lay the foundations for migration policy. By calling for foreign policy measures, legal migration and the fight against irregular immigration, we were able to curb the arrivals of cayucos. Thus, we were able to avoid many deaths in the Atlantic and build a relationship of trust and cooperation with our southern neighbours. That is what it is about, to prevent through cooperation and trust. The situation in 2006 is not that of today. Between the two dates, the European Union has faced a refugee crisis such as that of 2015. Africa has only grown; moreover, the forecasts point to greater population growth. In turn, the European acquis has changed in the area of asylum and borders. It is no longer the same as in 2006. However, despite the much work that has been done in the European Union, we have not yet achieved a common immigration policy, but we must face up to current trends and pressures and be respectful of the principles of the European Union, Articles 2 and 6 of the Treaty on Union and Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning, Responsibility and Solidarity of the countries of the Union. In the case of Spain, as I told you, since the end of 2014 the number of arrivals of irregular immigrants by sea has grown. This trend has been particularly worrying since mid-2017, when changes in the deployment of surveillance in the Central Mediterranean and Italian unilateral decisions led to the displacement to the Western Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation that we are in June 2018, when I assumed the portfolio of the Interior, and since then we have been dedicated to fighting illegal immigration, having recovered the immigration policy after the last years of stagnation. With the Socialist Government, migration policy comes again. We wanted more cooperation and more confidence. The priority objective is obviously prevention in the first place, first of all by addressing the real reasons for this runaway effect to which I have referred. In this context, there is the area of security and we can be useful in avoiding the action of human trafficking organizations and preventing the risk of endangering the lives of migrants. This prevention work goes far beyond repression, because it is the one that really saves all lives, so it can be said that the action of the Interior fighting against irregular immigration prevents suffering and violation of human rights. This is why we have worked these months to strengthen cooperation with third countries, which is a key and cross-cutting element in migration policy. Both the Secretary of State and I have developed an intense international agenda. We have been visited by more than 20 foreign authorities and have made 17 international trips. We have travelled to Morocco - five times I have met with its Minister of the Interior - Algeria, Senegal, Mauritania, Guinea-Conakry, the Gambia, Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. It was the first time that a Minister of the Interior of the Kingdom of Spain had visited these last four countries and participated in cooperation. In all cases we have met with presidents, prime ministers and vice-presidents eager to cooperate and intensify cooperation for the prevention of illegal immigration. The President of Guinea-Conakry, for example, Alpha Condé, who has also been President of the African Union, told me that the problem of irregular immigration is comparable to a new modern form of slavery. Africa does not want these irregular immigration routes for its young people, Africa wants its young people for the future of the continent, but the means they have must be strengthened by the European Union. I would like to convince you of the need to develop a diverse and cross-cutting comprehensive cooperation that will help to control migratory flows more effectively. With these trips I have sought to strengthen bilateral cooperation on migration by identifying common interests, building trust and collaborating more and more in the fight against trafficking in human beings. We have also cooperated in civil protection and other matters of interest to them. I also stress that, since June, we have signed international conventions to combat crime with four countries in sub-Saharan Africa and the Maghreb, such as Morocco. At the bilateral level, we have also done so. Joint work between the National Police and the Civil Guard and the security forces of third countries, such as joint teams in Mauritania, Senegal, the GAR-SI Sahel, has allowed the exchange of information, as well as the arrest and dismantling of important illegal immigration networks, preventing irregular migrants from leaving our shores. I also highlight the work carried out at our borders, with greater protection and security, and the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in persons carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies. Work has also been carried out on the disarticulation of networks, with different operations; a national strategy against organized crime, where irregular migration is one of the bases, which has been re-enforced, also forming part of the Intelligence Directive, which had disappeared for you. We hope, as reflected in that strategy, that we will soon adopt a national strategic plan against trafficking in human beings. We're working on the return. We are returning irregular immigrants in a much larger number than you did. In addition, we have strengthened our capacities for coordination, border control and care and assistance to rescued persons. In early August 2008, we created the Coordinating Authority to deal with irregular immigration in the Gibraltar area and the Alboran Sea. For the comprehensive approach we want, ladies and gentlemen, coherence and coordination are vital. At the domestic level, we are doing our utmost to deal more effectively with migratory pressure, which was not done between 2014 and 2017. The Ministry of the Interior has carried out an action to strengthen and modernise the border perimeter of Ceuta and Melilla, which will take place and take place very soon, but which is already approved by the Council of Ministers. We have set out to guarantee security with humanity, and that is where we stand. Our action is also on the European agenda, our JHA policy and the reform of what is called the Common European Asylum System. [[Justice and Home Affairs Councils]] We are also, as I have told you, in prevention at source. It is true that in 2018 we make humanity, but we also, as I said, cooperate and fight against networks. 57 000 persons entered Spain by sea. We saved 57,000 lives. This government and Spanish society as a whole saved 57 000 lives. But we are doing work to reduce irregular immigration. I'll give you a piece of information. Of all these measures that we have been adopting on the outside, on the control of our borders, on investment, also on return, on the expansion of return, I will tell you that these issues also determine prevention in numbers. This February, 849 irregular immigrants entered. Do you know how many entered in February 2018, last year? 1158 people, 200 more in February 2018 compared to this year. You claim to offer all your support to the State Security Forces and Corpses. I, as Minister of the Interior, am grateful for the work they are doing in preventing irregular immigration, but also in supporting migrants who come to our shores. But I thank him with means, giving them means. [[Applauds]] You say migration policy is not a photo policy. The only minister - former minister - that I have seen in Ceuta or Melilla has been Mr Zoido going to take the photo; I have also seen Mr Casado going to take the photo. When I went to Ceuta - and I will go to Melilla - it was to offer results and to offer objectives, not to take my photo. [[Applauds]] There's no effect called. Do you know what the effect is called? What you have done in recent years, from 2011 to 2018, when you stopped doing immigration policy. Not doing migration policy, not maintaining cooperation with countries of origin, not contributing to development, lowering the developing budget in countries of origin and transit, all these issues are truly the so-called effect, and do not confuse it with the runaway effect. I would like to say again that we are doing migration policy and we have done migration policy again. Security, but also humanity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Rojas, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u343	Thank you very much. Minister, I am sorry that I do not agree with much of what you have said. Look, the worst thing about dealing with a problem like immigration, like many others, is denialism, and that's what you, in the best Zapatero and Pedro Sánchez style, have just done here, a maximum expression of what denialism is: denying the problem, denying even the data, denying the figures. Hey, it's just that in January it was 173 % more than in 2018, it's that it's multiplied by seven the figure of 2016. These are the figures we have, and that is the management of the Socialist Party in the government; Mr Sánchez's eight months. Let us accept things as they are, Minister. It is not a question of coming here to make a mockery of the opposition saying that if we have a very high tone or if we say things that are not reality. None of that, Minister, is the reality. For the picture, Mr. Sanchez's with the reality of the Aquarius. That has been the unfortunate photo and the so-called effect we have seen trying to use immigration as a political party matter to somehow connect with what Mr Sánchez believes can be a part of society. To get a handful of votes? No, Your Honor, immigration is not that. Immigration needs to be treated with rigour, responsibility, and solutions. We have always come to the Congress of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, to demand solutions from the Government. Also to ask the Government for some solutions so that it can choose by making a constructive opposition. But neither you nor Mr Ábalos nor anyone from the Government have explained here the mystery of the Open Arms, this ship which was magnificent in the first four months of the Government and which is then locked in a port and the Government does not let it sail because it says it is doing an illegal activity. No one in the government has explained what happened to the veto on the Open Arms, Your Honor. These are contradictions that people do not understand and it is a bad message given by the Government, it is a bad message because you see an ineffective Government, you see an incoherent Government and you see zigzag measures, Your Honor. We are committed to a global strategy in the face of the migration challenge, to strengthening our borders by giving more means to the State Security Forces and Bodies, and there we all agree, but you have not done so. We have to deal with the specific problem with adequate means. Do you know what has happened in some port in Spain when the media has not been adequate and some policemen have denounced the situation? What has happened has been that his ministry has opened up files to these cops for reporting the truth. Minister, less police files and more means for them to carry out their task. That's his responsibility. [[Applauds]] We must fight illegal human trafficking. Do you know what that means? Something very clear that we have repeatedly proposed, and that is that more resources must be given to justice, judges, prosecutors and other members of the Administration of Justice, so that they can deal with the problem with greater guarantees. We need more staff, training and specialisation; that is what a government must do in the face of the migratory challenge and not come here to embarrass the opposition, Minister. International protection and humanitarian aid must be provided. The matter of the asylum office had been a complete management disaster on the part of his Government. Staff have been on strike, reported mass layoffs of ninety people who knew what the procedure was and now there has been a delay in management that is going to be two years of delay; the completion of the files is being announced for the year 2023. Do you think there is a right to that when it comes to such an important matter as asylum and shelter for people? That is what his Government has achieved in these eight months. They should fix it, but they will no longer fix it; we will fix it because we will win the elections and set up a genuine asylum office that works and where officials are motivated and able to carry out their work. [[Applauds]] You look like you don't know anything about what you're being told when we met with these people and saw the problem of their cases, but you didn't want to meet with them. That is the very open management of the Socialist Party in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we have often told you that we offer you integration and regular immigration linked to the labour market, a real field of work within the labour market so that immigration is directly linked to a necessary employment contract in our country. That's called integration, that's called linking with the law, that's called orderly immigration, that's definitely called accepting that we can all live together because we move within the framework of legality. That is the immigration we want in our country, an immigration that can be lasting and that is always linked to order and legality, and that is the proposal we make from the People's Party. I'm closing, Madam President. We need to convince Europe that work at source and international coordination are possible and necessary, but Mr Sánchez has done nothing of what he promised in Europe; he has not appeared in this problem, he has not given his face. He has been making trips around the world with his Falcon but has not come down to earth to explain to Europe that here we have a problem, a problem that is not only from Spain but from all of Europe, and either we all face it together with the necessary means or the problem is going to grow. That's what we've been trying to explain to you all this time and you haven't listened to us. Therefore, Minister, more solutions and less sham to the opposition, less political sham on this issue. We are going to lead the immigration debate in the European Union because that is what our country needs, and if it is up to you - I do not know - to be in the opposition in the coming years, help the government, as we have tried to do in these eight months, with loyalty and responsibility. Spain will certainly thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u344	Thank you very much, Mr Rojas García. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try briefly, in addition to having to do so. I will simply address two important issues. When immigrants are rescued at sea, that is not border control, that is why we must prevent at source, that is why we must cooperate in the development of the countries of origin, because when immigrants are already at sea that is not border control, that is rescue. I think we need to learn about immigration. I promise you I've learned a lot in eight months; I don't know if I've done it right or wrong, but what I haven't stopped doing is learning; in fact, I've learned. Do you know what happened to your policy, that of the so-called effect, the one they didn't do? They reduced cooperation aid to these countries by 72 % in seven years; they reduced it by 72 %. [[Applauds]] They need to know more about immigration. Out of every five sub-Saharan, African migrants who climb north and look to Europe, four remain in Africa; only one in five passes to Europe. You have to know that. In Africa, 11 million jobs are created per year; they need to be created from 15 to 20 by 2035. We need to know that, and that is why we need to cooperate, to prevent them from going out into the sea and playing their lives. You tell me about the asylum office. It's not for scolding them, for making me hard, but it's just that they're missing the truth again. We have had to make a remodeling, a whole restructuring; there has been a public offer. You had a disaster: you had multiplied the files by seven or eight times in recent years. That's obvious. I am not going to lose ten seconds on this issue because it is a notorious thing how the Asylum and Refugee Office is now formed, and Acnur and CEAR can say so. You said that from 2016 to 2018 arrivals multiplied by seven. Why didn't you say that from 2016 to 2017 you multiplied the arrivals by four, which is when you were and didn't do anything? He gave this data because the other one wasn't the one he really liked. That is why I say to you that when you talk about these issues you have to be a little careful on those extremes. We will continue to pursue this policy of coordination and cooperation with the countries of origin. We have greatly increased economic aid and development cooperation with the countries I have indicated, and we are also implementing joint research teams with all of them. Within the framework of the European Union, we have finally managed to get Morocco to receive the assistance and cooperation that it has not received in recent years, such as a transfer of EUR 140 million, so that they can invest in the border control of their country and in the training of personnel, in which we are working. Detentions have been increased in a significant way in the Mafia field. That is why we want cooperation and we want to continue to pursue a migration policy. I have told you again that the police and the Civil Guard like and want help, data, to be given financial, material and personal means. On both the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, European borders, this aid has been implemented, and I have already told you how it will be carried out. You also referred to the falsehood that the jumps to the fence had increased. That's not true. The most important entrances by leaps to the fence you have both in Ceuta and Melilla during the governments of the People's Party. They're objective facts. By Ceuta and Melilla in recent months irregular entrances are being reduced. We are participating in the intervention and cooperation with the various ministries to help all the collectives, all the NGOs that assist migrants, but I say again that we are in favour of a safe, legal and orderly migration policy, and I have just indicated to you the results of February. This is the last question of the legislature and I would like to take advantage of this space to thank the comrades of the Ministry of the Interior for the vocation of public service, their work and their commitment. I thank the Socialist Group for its cooperation and work. Ladies and gentlemen, I always work in handling data that are public, that are part of our democratic system and that sustains the reality of Spain. Listening and the debate, as I have always said, enriches. Parliamentary life has taught me that I am a politician - now I can tell you - who believes in this government's project, who believes in cooperation and who believes in prosperous countries. Do not doubt one thing, if we go to the opposition, we will cooperate, because the Socialist Party is a state party, today the President of the Government reminded us, we are where we are a state party. But as I have indicated before, that game with falsehoods, that obviating reality, blurring public reality, and I hope that Spanish society will decide that we will continue and that we can continue with these social policies and with policies of understanding, in my case of security and human rights. It will be the Spanish society - it would be missing more! - that will have to analyze and examine us all. Since we are talking about emigration, let me finish with a verse from a Somali poet, Warsan Shire, who says: no one climbs their children to a boat unless the water is safer than the earth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE YEAR 2017, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION: - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE YEAR 2017, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u347	Finally, we moved on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the 2017 financial year, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I give the floor to the first secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u348	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy enshrined in Article 72.1 of the Constitution and in compliance with Article 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2017, the general outlines of which are set out below, is presented to the plenary. The fiscal year of the Congress of Deputies for 2017 began in application of Article 134.4 of the Constitution under a situation of extension of the General Budgets of the State for 2016. The Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting of 28 March 2017, approved the draft budgets of the House for 2017, which was integrated into the General Budgets of the State for that year approved by Law 3/2017 of 27 June, with an overall amount of 85,517,350 euros, which represents 0.03% of the General Budgets of the State. Of the total amount of appropriations initially authorised, those actually committed amounted to EUR 77 254 741.09, representing an implementation of 90.34 % of the budget initially approved, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 8 262 608.91, representing 9.66 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the financial year 2017, EUR 71,327 774.75 were paid during the same obligations and during 2018 payments amounting to EUR 5,942,626.51 were made, according to the following breakdown: outstanding payments at 31 December 2017 arising from obligations for the financial year and made between 1 January and 31 March 2018, EUR 5,942,626.51. Second, cash balance at the end of 2017, EUR 15 660.17. In addition, several credit transfers, approved by the Bureau of the House at its meetings on 21 March and 17 October 2017, for a total of €933,000, have been requested during the 2017 financial year. Congress Hall of Deputies, February 27, 2019. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-27-CD190227.u349	Thank you very much, Madam First Secretary. As there were no interventions by the groups, the meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
