ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u2	On the occasion of the macho crime committed yesterday in Valga, Pontevedra, in which three women were murdered and two minors have been orphaned, as a demonstration of the commitment of this House against gender-based violence and in memory of all the victims, the Bureau of Congress has agreed that today's session will begin with a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u3	We begin with item I of the agenda, on the debate on the proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, for a derogation from the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. Mrs Rosell Aguilar has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u4	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. It is an honour for me to defend from this rostrum the repeal of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is the article that limited the period of investigation or investigation of criminal acts to six months that can be extended to eighteen months, exceptionally twice, if the complex case was declared in time for legally assessed reasons. Since it was approved by the People's Party in 2015, we have been warning of the consequences calling for its repeal, in my case first as judge and spokesman for Judges and Judges for Democracy; as a deputy in the last parliamentary term, in October 2016, I could not intervene because I was prevented by a false complaint from a minister sitting on that bench, with a corrupt judge, Salvador Alba, convicted by the TSJ on September 10, 2019. [[pointing to the blue bench]] [[Applauds]] They lied to the Supreme Court; as Soria lied to all of Spain, which is almost rewarded with a position at the World Bank. The Supreme Court admits the complaint, causes my resignation and I am removed from this Parliament. It is not a great example of the separation of powers, which sometimes fills their mouths, but perhaps of the state's cloacas: the use of State institutions against the political rival, which shows the moment of maximum institutional degradation in which the PP had plunged into this country and which led people to the squares. It is in this context of institutional degradation and legitimate protests, when the People's Party held that absolute majority, that the context of this article 324. They approve the laws of the law to suppress legitimate protests; the Law on Judicial Fees to Dissuasion to Go to Justice, declared unconstitutional after its correction to prevent the varapalo from being greater; and this article 324, which prevented the investigation of the most serious crimes: corruption, laundering, fiscal crime, environmental crime...; the others did not. We have a justice that was very effective for the small crime; already said the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary, pending renewal since December, Carlos Lesmes: The law is designed for the robagallins. They built and applied strong justice to the weak and very weak to the strong. This article was adopted without consensus with the other political forces, without the civil society to which it was to be affected and without the judiciary and prosecutorial authorities to apply it. We did not know from within the unknown institutional commission of experts that made the proposal for reform, we knew it when the BOE published that they had been awarded the Grand Cross of San Raimundo de Peñafort, the highest decoration in Justice for having carried out this legal reform or this proposal. There were five men, but good! In the case of sexual offences there was no woman, in this there was one; and among the men, casually, the lawyer of Ana Botella, José Manuel Soria, and Judge Alba. But this is random. What we should think about is whether this country no longer needs a progressive Government that will also end the Francoist decorations by confusing the services to the political party of the Government with the services to the State. [[Applauds]] Article 324 provided bad service to the State and good service to the People's Party. It was clear that this limitation of time, in a justice without more human or material means, would lead to impunity for investigations against the powerful. And so it was. We told Rafael Català, Rafa for friends and defendants of the Lezo case and today collecting from the gambling houses that flood our neighborhoods, that Rafa who wrote to Ignacio González: I wish the trouble would be over soon. And he denied it. But it was exactly like that. Not long after the troubles were ended and investigations were activated or the proceedings after six months were annulled in the Pasarelas case, by Pedro Antonio Sánchez, former president of Murcia, of the People's Party, not for lack of proof - and this time not for the Botín doctrine - but for not calling to declare the investigated in the first six months and not being able to declare it complex; the Lasalle case, when the beneficiary was another former president of Murcia, of the PP, Ramón Luis Valcarce; the Nazarí and Alhambra cases, of Torres Hurtado, who was deputy with the People's Alliance, senator with the People's Party and Mayor of Granada three times with absolute majority of the People's Party and the fourth with the support of Citizens, until he was arrested practically at the gate of the city council. At that time, at the time this law was passed, there were about sixty cases of corruption pending from the PP, which my partner Irene Montero listed in the motion of censure that this parliamentary group filed against Mariano Rajoy. Impunity was and was the inevitable consequence because that was the reason, that was the cause of the law. It was not enough for them to use the State institutions, to remove the police officers who had investigated the People's Party - which is why we and we proposed that 126 of the Spanish Constitution be applied and that there be the possibility of a genuine judicial police attached to the courts and prosecutors to avoid reprisals for doing their job well, which we know has happened - but that the law was also on the part of the corrupt. The jurists, including the Justices for Democracy Association, called it the final point law, some considered it exaggerated. We, we call it the Berlusconi law, seemed to us to be an obvious example of the degradation of institutions at the service of the impunity of the powerful and from within the State itself. A magistrate of the Supreme, who is a jurist of recognized prestige and has just retired, defined this article saying: This is what happens when the legislator legislates from the bench of the accused. [[Applauds]] Technically it was very defective. They instruct the examining magistrates, but the declaration of complexity was left to the prosecutors, the prosecutor's office. It opened those eighteen months at the time of the greatest contempt - for the prosecution's leadership - for his connivance with the government and the appointment of the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Mr. Moix, applauded by the defendants in the Lezo case. The PP said here that there were no limits to extensions, this would be absurd and not true, it is not what the law says. He said that they could appeal to the workload of the courts, but this is not legal and when courts and prosecutors have widely interpreted the possibility of extension have been annulled. And it does not serve - and this is very important, as some people say and repeat acritically - to guarantee the constitutional right to a process without undue delay. That's not true. It's technically unrelated because it's not six months to investigate an investigated person without a court decision, no. There have been many archived without having anyone investigated, including the former president of Murcia. And by mentioning the Constitution or a constitutional right, let me remind you that it came into force on December 6, 2015, the day of the Constitution. Perhaps this serves to remind us what it is trying to cover up the constitutionalists with their great flags of Spain, which is corruption, the management of the State as a private courtship and impunity. [[Applauds]] The first six months since that December 6, 2015 took place on June 6, 2016, which for the courts and prosecutors was the day of the beast; the eighteen months, on December 6, 2017 and the last eighteen on June 6, 2019, three months ago. They could have avoided it if they had wanted to, but Citizens and PP at the Bureau blocked with sixty-two extensions the deadline for amendments to a law that had only one article: Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act is repealed and this reform - in the transitional period - will affect the processes in progress upon its entry into force. Because it would have prevented impunity. In a law that fits in a tweet they ask justice to work six months but in three years they do not approve it. I would have avoided impunity, I insist, even a decree-law of the Government before that date, June 6, 2019 - which I know was valued as a situation of extraordinary and urgent need with the dissolved Courts - but neither was approved. The effects are or were all complex investigations - this was then a useless article and a fraud of law - or were not so and ended in impunity. The only legal trick, of course, that we applied in the courts and courts was provisional dismissal: you order proof, leave and while you don't compute the deadline. But this withdrawal, ladies and gentlemen, is lifting the precautionary measures, neither provisional detention nor a misrepresentation can be maintained with an abandoned cause. Therefore, it was bad news not only for corruption - which was what they intended - but for sexual offences against minors who had not been tested for expertise, for environmental crimes, for routine ill-treatment in which a psychological expert had to be made and a little more than six months had to be forensic, but which was not the case in 324 or for complex reasons. It would have been a real misconception if it had not coincided with his purpose. I cannot end without mentioning again the five direct victims of yesterday's gender-based violence, 16 September 2019: three murdered women and two children, four and seven years old, deeply damaged and devastated by gender-based sexist violence, is sexist violence as racial violence has race. [[Applauds]] Machism is a disease of social transmission and the lethal virus of negationism of macho violence and the deep contempt of feminism has entered this Parliament and others, and into government pacts that, by action or omission, approve cuts in equality and unprotect the victims. If those were the inescapable consequences of 324, the consequences of the setback and the lack of protection of gender-based violence were more victims. Those who support this, please think about it, think about it and do not respond only with silence, with minutes of silence, when the unprotected victims are killed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Rosell. The joint parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero, then took the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u6	Thank you, President. In Junts per Catalunya we consider that, as a general rule, setting limits must always be for the benefit of citizens. Since there can be no limits if they are not accompanied by resources, we will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the comrades of Podemos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u8	Thank you very much, President. It is brought to debate in this one that seems to be the end of the XIII Legislature, as already done in the XI and XII previous, the controversial article 324 of the Law on Criminal Procedure after the drafting of the same by Law 41/2015, to limit, as has already been said, the duration of the stage of instruction in the criminal proceedings, and we do not think that the same will happen again as in the past: again it will remain in the drawer, in the XI Legislature by electoral repetition; in the XII - as has already been indicated - by the work of parliamentary obstruction to which the People's Party and Citizens subjected the processing of a proposed law of reform sponsored by Podemos. Nothing less than sixty-two extensions were agreed between the People's Party and Citizens until the electoral advance. And in this XIII Legislature what I will tell you that you do not know, but that it will not be an obstacle for us to expose our position in front of the initiative that is submitted to consideration for responsibility to this House and for what it represents, and also for responsibility to our voters and citizens in general. Ladies and gentlemen, the current article 324, as you will all recall, was adopted with the sole support of the absolute majority of the People's Party and with the majority opposition of the judicial professionals, since shortening the time limits without increasing the means implies - it was said that it was going to imply and has implied - false provisional postponements so that the instructions do not lapse, massive declaration of complex causes without being so and unfounded accusations, since there are no archives, except for the general reasons of the Criminal Procedure Act, nor do they practice non-term investigations at risk of nullity of the educated. In addition, the amended article 324 causes, as has already been pointed out, an inconsistency by separating the investigating judge from the direction of the investigation for the initiative of extensions of the time limits by depriving him of the same in favour of the prosecution, which is contrary to the role that the Prosecution Act gives the judge as sole director of the investigation. For these reasons, the Basque Parliamentary Group has always supported the reform initiatives of Article 324 throughout these legislatures, although we have also pointed out that the duration of the investigation cannot be unlimited, which would happen if the current Article 324 was simply repealed. The Basque Parliamentary Group believes that the time of investigation, which is an inquisitorial phase of the process, should be limited in duration, subject to a materially police state, which we consider unacceptable. The State should not have unlimited time to investigate cases against citizenship or, of course, to investigate general cases. A sine die bench sentence would violate both the principle of legal certainty recognized in article 9.3 of the Constitution and the fundamental right to a trial without undue delay, and would generally also violate the procedural guarantees and fundamental rights of the parties contained in the European conventions on human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to strike a balance between an investigation of unlimited duration, something unacceptable as I have already pointed out, and deadlines which cannot be met and which before the reform of Article 324 were exempted without limit but which are now peremptory and which at times involve, as is alleged, the victim's lack of guardianship and the author's consequent impunity. And this point of balance must be achieved, in our opinion, on the faithful of the human and material means at the disposal of justice, of its organization and of its degree of technologicalization, since the causal relationship between means and organization, on the one hand, and time limits, on the other, is inescapable. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u10	Thank you, President. Finally! I didn't think I was going to see this moment: the repeal of the reform that was made of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, a reform that I personally suffered during my legal practice. All citizens have the right to a fair trial, effective judicial protection and maximum legal certainty, but the reform that the PP adopted at the time was less than guaranteed by these fundamental rights. Very serious cases are currently being tried, crimes - ladies and gentlemen, crimes - that reach the stage of the oral trial without having been able to practice all the necessary evidence or diligence for the clarification of the facts; this cannot happen, it cannot continue to happen. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has already expressed at the time, with our conseillera de Justícia del Govern de la Generalitat de Catalunya, Ester Capella, both in the Senate and in this House, our total and absolute opposition to the temporary limitation of the investigative phase, a very important phase of a criminal procedure, where all the evidence is collected and all the diligence is practiced and then evaluated in the oral trial. Now the Republican Group again expresses its rejection of this reform and welcomes the initiative of the United Nations We can bring the repeal of this reform to Congress. Because a reform like that made by the People's Party cannot be done without providing it with the material and personal means it needs, and most seriously, knowing the lack of such means in the courts of inquiry of the whole State. This fact demonstrates two things: either the total and absolute lack of knowledge of the judicial reality of the State or that it gives it exactly the same as the investigative courts are, because the only thing that interests them are their issues: that their cases of corruption go unpunished. Therefore, what we have to do is to repeal this reform once and for all and give justice the material and personal means sufficient, modernizing it with tools that really work, not like some that, instead of facilitating, complicate. But I am afraid that we are giving false hopes to the entire judicial community, not only to the judges and prosecutors, but to all the staff working in the service of the Administration of Justice and also to the lawyers and prosecutors, who also exercise it, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a consideration that, if we have the necessary support to be approved, if elections are called for the inability of the Socialist Party to form a government, it will remain in a drawer. What a waste of time, work and money! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The VOX Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of the proposal for a law that has been presented by Podemos and its confluences to be considered, although we are in the antepodes of the explanatory statement made in this act by Mrs Rosell, which in fact proceed to the repeal of the legislative reform that the PP imposed with the roll of its absolute majority is a debt that this House maintains with Spanish society. However, Mrs Rosell, I will tell you that listening to your sectarian tone really makes it very hard not to think, when you see it to you, about the politicization of justice. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I come to talk about corruption because, in fact, I have had the opportunity to study and read the Journals of Sessions of the parliamentary process of this legislative reform, which through article thirty-three, which in this case was 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, imposed by the People's Party limiting criminal investigation, and it is clear that the only purpose and effect achieved was to facilitate impunity for the corrupt. So yes, indeed, today I come to talk about corruption. I'll start with two essential axioms. The first is how much damage they have done to our beloved Spain their respective absolute majorities. Mr Baldoví, Member of Parliament for Compromís, had the opportunity to express this eloquently during the parliamentary process of legislative reform, whose repeal we are dealing with today when he said that it seems a lie that the party with the highest number of accused of corruption at that time was the party that precisely had the majority enough to impose laws that favored impunity for the corrupt. The second finding is that the efficient cause of corruption is the partycracy in which we live and I will tell you that this last statement is not mine, but I just give voice to an anonymous Spanish who expressed himself in these terms in my official Twitter account this weekend. Neither the VOX parliamentary group nor this Member will fall into the demagogy of calling any political party in particular corrupt because it would be unfair and uncertain. What I want to tell you on behalf of and representation of my parliamentary group, however, is that it is clear that the party-cracy that prevails in our country has allowed them to be complicit in corruption by alternating in power, thanks to an unjust electoral system that favors regionalist parties, yielding to their successive blackmails when they have sought their support for the adoption of the State's General Budgets each year. They will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, and I was specifically referring to CiU and the Basque Nationalist Party, to illustrate this last statement with very concrete examples. Please take a look at the year 2012. I served as a state attorney in Bilbao and the People's Party enjoyed muscle with its absolute majority. In that capacity as a State lawyer, specifically specialized in the fight against corruption, I received a call from a high office of the Vice-President of the Government of Spain indicating that he had been called by a deputy of the Basque Nationalist Party - who is, by the way, present in this room today - interested in a cause of alleged corruption that I was pushing and wanted to know the details of the case. I facilitated this information to the high office of the Vice-President of the Government of Spain and, when I finished, I asked with complete transparency: Do you have any instructions to give me, sir? His answer, I have to confess, filled me with deep pride because what he said was, "Yes, you're still a state attorney. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]] Now I ask you to settle in October 2017. I was already a chief state attorney in the Basque Country and the PP had lost its absolute majority. In October 2017, the coup d'état against Catalonia was perpetuated, and what the all-powerful vice-president of the government once did was launch Operation Diálogo. The first manifestations of this operation were the fulminant cessations of the delegates of the Government of Catalonia and the Basque Country, which - I can give faith - if for something they were characterized was precisely for their ferret defense of legality in these territories. That was in December 2017. Do you know who came out six months after that territory? Me. [[Rumors]] In order not to disclose confidential information, I will explain to you what the media published and it is that, in fact, this requirement of my departure for my involvement in cases of corruption was requested by Basque nationalists, among other demands, to support the Rajoy government and to carry forward the 2018 state budgets. [[Rumors]] The partycracy, ladies and gentlemen, stood on the side of corruption. And now I ask you to settle down a few months later, because my departure from the Basque Country did not go to any destination: I assumed the General Secretariat of a public society in Madrid that has the honorable merit - see the irony - of having been the second public society in Spain accused, among other crimes, of corruption in international economic transactions. I started an internal investigation of arduous collaboration with the National High Court and after fifteen months, with a new president in October 2018, do you know how long it took that new president to propose my cessation? Fifteen days. A cessation that would not be of any greater importance if it were not because, if it had materialized in the terms in which it proposed, it would have prevented my statement to the National Court mentioned two days later. Once again the partycracy stood on the side of corruption. With this background what I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, is that I have not come to political life to deal with personal care; so I will not ask certain questions that I could ask, I assure you. Now, I do intend to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u14	It is truly insulting for the Spaniards that talking about corruption makes them laugh, truly insulting, and I speak on behalf of almost 3 million Spaniards; truly insulting! [[Applauds]] What I can assure you is that I intend - and this is my only objective - to bring to the VOX Parliamentary Group the experience I have treasured in this fight against corruption. Today, we can bring a proposal that, by the way, was registered by the VOX Parliamentary Group a month earlier, but the Socialist Executive has not had the pleasure of dealing with it and that is why we are not debating our proposal. It is clear that measures such as the repeal of the reform of Article 324 is a debt - and I conclude as I started this intervention - which is maintained by this House with Spanish society and it is clear that it was a shame that during the previous parliamentary term up to sixty-two times, as the previous speakers have pointed out, the deadlines for tabling amendments would be extended and their adoption prevented, when it was a text that had only one article. Because reality has shown us that you were all right when, unlike the People's Party, which was the proponent, you denounced that corruption was going to be promoted, and that is what you did with this approval with the roll of the absolute majority. That is why I am announcing to you today that the VOX Parliamentary Group will not stand on the side of the corrupt and that, of course, we will push all the measures that are necessary to depoliticize justice, something, Mrs Rosell, that when I see it - I repeat - I find it very hard for you to represent it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[With the applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some of them stood up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My first words today, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, are condemned for this triple murder: three murdered women, victims of male violence. On the other hand, they are also, of course, to express our solidarity with all those affected by the floods, to convey our condolences to the families from whom they have perished and, of course, to thank all the State Security Forces and Corpses, emergency services and volunteers who continue to work in the area. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] Today we are again discussing article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, on the limitation of the time limits for investigation, an initiative that brings back United We can, the group that is the preferred partner of the Government, the Adalid group of judicial independence, who in 2016 proposed that the State Attorney General, the Constitutional magistrates and the members of the General Council of the Judiciary should be elected for their commitment to the Government program and not for their merit and capacity; those who shared with the Socialist Party, and with the People's Party, also, the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary in the last and shameful attempt to renew that body; a deal, of course, that Mr Sánchez has again offered to them in this package of high state institutions that, together with Spanish Radiotelevision or the National Securities Market Commission, should be independent, but that the Socialist Party considers negotiable merchandise. [[Applauds]] Neither this Government nor its preferred partners have any credibility when they speak of judicial independence or separation of powers. On the other hand, some spokespersons have come up here today and talked about blocking again. In this regard, I just want to recall one fact. The first time that the repeal of article 324 was included in a bill was on September 15, 2016, in the proposal for a comprehensive law to combat corruption and protect the complainant, from Citizens, six months before you registered the one we discussed today. [[Applauds]] And another fact: neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party were in favour of repealing the article. They tabled an amendment to the provision containing it because then they did not want to repeal it. To block, ladies and gentlemen, is that we approve this reform today and that this afternoon Mr Sánchez tells his majesty the king that he is not going to go to an investiture, that he does not accept the votes of his preferred partners or the demands of the constitutionalists. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, trust is bidirectional; you cannot tell your partners that in Valencia yes, in Navarre yes and in Madrid they do not trust them, and at the same time ask the opposition to place our trust blindly in you. How are we going to trust Mr Sánchez, how are we going to do that if two hours after denying his pact with Bildu you, the Socialist Party, met with them in the Pamplona Commonwealth? How are we going to trust Mr. Sanchez? [[Applauds]] What was really important about this debate, the core of the issue, was what sought to limit the time frame for investigation: to embarrass and make it difficult to deal with the major corruption cases that were already under way; to make our prosecutors, our judges and our state lawyers, like my colleague Edmundo Bal, waste their precious time by presenting and requesting extensions and agreeing on such extensions, ultimately generating more role in our courts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable that the Government of the absolute majority of Mr Rajoy, instead of devoting more resources to our administration of justice and undertaking courageous procedural reforms since it had that absolute majority, would invent measures such as judicial fees or the limitation of the time limits for investigation, should pursue the speeding up of justice, to avoid undue delays and to put an end to the jamming of cases. That's not unleashing justice, ladies and gentlemen, that's putting a funnel on it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you will have to decide today whether you are going to continue to defend Mr Rajoy's reform or whether you are going to stand on the side of those who are against corruption without nuance and without reservation. And which side will the Socialist Parliamentary Group be on? Which side will be the party of the training courses, the ERE, FAFEE, Guadalquivir Futuro or Mercasevilla? I quote some cases of corruption because surely, when they come to this rostrum, they will forget about them and they will only talk about those of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Whose side will be the party that has destroyed with the money of the unemployed in Andalusia? No wonder employment policies in the end were that insurmountable stumbling block for you to come to an agreement. [[Applauds]] I assure you that the Andalusians will never forget the corruption of the socialist regime or the sticks on the wheels that the previous socialist government of the Andalusian Board has always put in the process of dealing with these causes of corruption. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative and in favour of an administration of justice that works as best as it can with the scarcity of resources it suffers. If this bill lapses because Sanchez fails, we will not miss the opportunity to win the elections to prevent you from continuing to colonize the institutions and create a client network of chiringuitos and favors, because that and only that is the germ of corruption; a network like the one that fortunately we are already dismantling in Andalusia. [[applause]] [[Laughter]] More than a hundred ghost chiringuitos who had budget but had no activity have already been dissolved by the Council for Democratic Regeneration of Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gómez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by expressing my condemnation and the more robust condemnation of the latest deaths from gender-based violence by the People's Parliamentary Group and all of them. And on the subject. I thought I'd seen it all before, but this afternoon - although I'm sure it's not the last thing I'll see - has been embarrassing. I thought that here we came to be useful to the citizens and not to make reproaches and small vendettas from the past or to discover secrets that must be kept - or not - from the profession of each one. Ladies and gentlemen, I am perplexed. You define yourselves. I ask Mrs Olona to respect my group, to respect the Members of this group, and to look at Article 408 of the Criminal Code, in case you could have been involved in it. Now let's go to the initiative. Mrs Rosell, welcome back to this House and to this debate. Surely you will have reviewed the Journal of Sessions and you will have seen that a procedural rule has never triggered debates so far away from common sense and the rigour demanded of legislators. I thought you were going to come here to impose rationality on this debate, but I was wrong. You've come to use this rostrum as a bold weapon. What you would never do in your profession has done here this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, those who do not know or need to know the 324 I ask you to read it and, in addition, to read the history of the Law, more than a hundred years old, of Civil Prosecution. You will see that it has nothing to do with corruption, or yes, but not with what has been said here, nor with the reform of Article 324 that was done in 2015. Of course, it is not a Berlusconi law; it is not a final law; it does not cause impunity for many causes or any cause; it is not a cause that affects political corruption. Read a little; read the memoirs of the prosecutor's office, which works hard; read the memoirs of the Attorney General's Office year by year and you will see the causes in which the complex instruction has been declared - more than 50% - and it will amaze you. See what Article 324 does not apply to, and you will see that some corruption and other serious crimes are not subject to 324; you will be surprised. See those cases they quote, which are not many, are some. In such cases there have been mistakes, there have been failures, as there have always been in justice on other issues, but it is no justification for what they wanted to happen and it has not happened. Do you present this initiative, as you said on another occasion, so that you do not continue to prescribe investigations? But it has nothing to do with the limitation of time limits. As the honourable Member knows, the spokespersons of justice and those who intervene today, the law is not an exact science; nor is there usually a single path for responding to legal problems, and there is rarely a single interpretation. Those of us who move in this field know that. Therefore, there is nothing to be surprised that certain solutions do not like, which does not mean that they are malicious, illicit or to look for a perverse object, such as that of which we have been accused and which is radically false, and is demonstrable. [[Applauds]] They can not be interpreted in the same way and can be improved in their formulation; hence what your ladies and gentlemen have said before and in today's debate there is an abyss. I never imagined that a boring procedural rule would serve as an instrument for the most reprehensible political demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has already been a lot of overaction. A pre-election environment is now flying, and it has also been noted in its debates. But we're in something else. We are serious, which you would have had to have shown if you had such an interest in expressing that political will so that you would not go back to doing what Penelope does, to wean permanently so that you will never get anywhere. You could have returned to the point where we left it in the XII Legislature: the People's Party tabled an amendment to the whole to improve the 324. Ladies and gentlemen, 324 when it came into operation, it may have had dysfunctions, as so many rules in history have had dysfunctions, but most of the time it has worked well, it has generated what was intended, the culture that research cannot continue to be governed by a rule that no longer serves, that makes waters everywhere, a rule that does not change because you have blocked that possibility year after year. If we do not enter a new criminal investigation system, we will have to do something, because if we do nothing there is responsibility, and that is what the People's Party did in 2015. And don't disrespect the voters, because you have an absolute majority and represent that number of voters and are first-rate voters and the representatives are first-rate, and it's not worth serving when you have a majority but not when you have the others. We therefore did not object to improving the text. We proposed solutions, some of which have also been proposed by the Attorney General's Office recently in his memoir and in his speech on 9th the Attorney General; they were proposed since 2015 in circular 5/2015 and then in the normative proposals in the memoir by successive prosecutors. There it was, they could have brought that initiative. Look, we can't agree that there's no time limit. Ladies and gentlemen of all groups, repealing this article means leaving without any time limit, it means leaving at the dawn of what everyone wants at every moment, and we cannot afford that. The transitional reform in 2015 made professionals work very hard. We are well aware of them, we know of their efforts, they did much to know how the causes were, many of them paralyzed without any intervention. You can't go back; you have to look forward. The right is built forward, not abrogating.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u19	Mrs. Moro, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u20	Yes, President, I'll be right down. My group is not going to oppose the consideration, but we do not agree with the repeal; we do not agree with the gulf, where there are no deadlines. When we tabled the partial amendments, no group, except Citizens, tabled amendments; but the PNV representative has already said this here: what do you want, that we go back to what one of those old professors of procedural law who had practices in the courts explained to me?: Do not learn the time limits of the law because they are the time limits that each of us processes in the courts. That is a Spain of 'you come back tomorrow'; that is a Spain in black and white, and to that we will oppose, we will always oppose, as the professionals oppose. Read the memoir of 2018, presented on the 9th, and you will see that the prosecutor has proposed to the government an amendment with deadlines, as we proposed in the amendment to the whole. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u22	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. They will allow me, as other spokesmen of other parliamentary groups have done, to break that minute of silence to denounce, to point out once again, the execrable crime of yesterday, the crime of the Pont-Vedress village of Valga, where three women have been murdered. We shouldn't afford one more. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to send a message to the families, but along with that pain and with all the affection, also a message of strength. We cannot allow ourselves as a society to analyse and continue to aggregate, today already 1015, since 2003. They're going to allow me to paraphrase Leon Tolstoy when he saw the head of a man executed by the guillotine fall, and when he said that the death penalty had to be abolished, not with reason, but with all his being, with all our being, and that's what we have to do to end gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] But here we have a question and, after hearing the parliamentary groups and seeing practically a global consideration, I think something is happening, and perhaps it is the environment that surrounds us. We are analysing the consideration of a proposal for a law presented by the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can in order to repeal article 324; a complex law, as you will have seen: it has one article, a transitional provision and two finals; it is read quickly. I have already shown you that the parliamentary group on which I am speaking today will support this derogation and will do so for many reasons. But for the purposes of reducing to schemes, because otherwise, we would not understand each other, I would like to talk about reasons of coherence and reasons of justice, which would be just as much as talking about reasons of justice and coherence, because in that osmotic process these terms come to magnify it. It is a matter of consistency, because our parliamentary group presented, also in July, an initiative with the same content, because within the 370 measures, for a common and progressive government, it is incorporated textually. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can think about this because this is also necessary and it will only be possible if we have a parliamentary term, if not, it will be a toast to the sun. [[Applauds]] He told them that, in keeping with this same coherence, we maintained a belligerent position in order to achieve the repeal of 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, since May 2017, when this law was taken into consideration. We did so despite this blockade, which has already been mentioned, with 62 extensions of the deadline for tabling amendments. It is clear that there was a blockade of the parties that controlled the Bureau and we had two years and a peak with that situation. Only in February 2019 was it possible to analyze the amendment in its entirety and, of course, it was known that there was no longer time for anything, but this parliamentary group continued and presented a non-law proposal in October 2018 in order to urge the release of that situation. Ladies and gentlemen, although there is no one else in favour of this derogation, I would like to outline a few points. I said that there is a second block: reasons for justice. Law 41/2015 of 5 October 2015 is a law that has a beautiful title, speeding up the administration of justice, and was promoted by a fast ministry of any significant measure. There was nothing in the administration of justice or in the improvement of justice. What's going on? That it was done without any forecast, without any management of the change and I do not know for what purposes, but of course it did not count on the justice sector, and there I want to establish a differential shade with the spokesman of the Group of the United Nations Podemos. I have to hear your speech again, but it seems to me that there is a breath of suspicion, of complicity, between a sector of the judiciary or the prosecution and the drafting or commissioning. I wish it wasn't. In any case, I do want to make it clear that this was done absolutely against the justice sector. There is one thing that is very clear and that is that no one can think that there should be no limits to instruction. The instructions cannot be eternal. The preamble to the Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882 - yes, before cinema was invented - already said this and warned of the danger that they would be open indefinitely. This cannot be, but if no one wants this, no one can want impunity, and that is what has caused a bad application of 324, which is very simple: the duration is six months, but there are possibilities to declare a special complexity. And I'm not talking about black hands, I'm talking about the everyday reality of our courts - different is the intention that the proposing groups might have - which prevents us from seeing the passage of time in those proceedings. There are no warnings to tell us, and that causes the effects that lead us to the Acal, La Sal, King Kong, Pasarelas and many others. So, what are we talking about? That we have to set limits, but of course we have to do it with the justice sector. Be careful, because it was the seven associations of judges and prosecutors who unanimously said that this article had to be repealed because they do not want to feel involved since this is sending a very dangerous and very simple message to society, and it is that the one who has a complex cause - and generally the cases of corruption and organized crime are - and also has powerful means to defend himself, can achieve impunity for these truths, and that we cannot afford because we are a rule of law. But for that we have to fight with legal instruments. I am not going to talk about blame for the lack of modernisation of justice - I think it is better not to blame - but you will see this accuser finger when the law is rude, it causes many more problems than benefits and above all it leads to the unhappiness of citizens, which is the only thing that should worry us here. But, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you one thing, and this is that we can only achieve this by having a parliamentary term. If there is no legislature, it will again be a toast to the sun and again we will repeat May 2017, 2018 and 2019, and in seven months we will again debate here about the repeal of the 324 and, however, many will have left in rositas. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. Thank you. [[Mr Esteban Bravo asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Campo. Yes, Mr. Aitor Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u24	Article 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u25	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u26	I am referring to Mrs Olona's speech and to certain accusations she has made to the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u27	Could you quote the phrase or the specific expression?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u28	Yes, yes, he has accused us, for example, of negotiating for the removal of an official from his post and, therefore, I would like to say something, among other things that he has also said. I already know that in this world there are people who think they are so important and so fatua that they think that she can be worth a few budgets. I'm sorry to tell you you're so wrong. I also understand that it has to be quite frustrating to pursue corruption and not win a case, not win a case having caused many innocent people to suffer along the way, which some of them are still suffering. This can only be due to two reasons: either you are unprofessional or your Basque anti-nationalist obsessions have lost you, which is what happens to officials who before officials are militants of an ideology. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u29	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u30	With the venom. I'll be very brief and I won't exhaust all the time available. Mr Esteban, representative of the People's Party, take very seriously...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u31	Mrs Olona, just by allusions and not to reopen the debate with all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u32	Absolutely, Madam President. Keep in mind that because I am very professional I will not reveal the conversations in Sabin Etxea nor anything more than I have told in this intervention, because I am very professional. Nothing more, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u34	We continue with the debate to take into consideration the proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I have a strange feeling going up to the rostrum to defend a reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, especially because, as I think we have quite internalized all or almost all, the dissolution of the House is likely to take place next week. Frankly, I think we are doing a weak favor to the citizenry, not only with this initiative but also the previous week we approved the being able to make a law on euthanasia and actually many people who have been listening to it might think that this was already underway but, no, no, if the House is now dissolved that consideration of that bill will disappear from the agenda and again it will have to be presented and the same will happen here with this. So, I'm not going to stretch out much. Frankly, we also present this reform of the Rules of Procedure because the government has not given it the place on those thirty working days that it has... Yes, yes, I know that July and August are inaccessible, that it is thirty days and that neither count on Sundays. [[Rumors]] But there was no other initiative and, therefore, this, to which they do not have to give placet, is the one that has come. This initiative was already discussed in the previous legislature and went ahead, it was taken into consideration, so I'm going to go quickly. What do we intend to do? In all parliaments there is an important role - in my opinion, more and more important if we want to strengthen democracy - which is to control and drive the executive. So, what does this cover? All initiatives that are not legislative, which is not the BOE strictly. What the government is obliged to do is what's in the BOE, the rest... well. Yes, but in the end there is a mandate, control and impulse from the executive, says the Constitution itself. Parliament must therefore do this work and must also know what has happened to those non-legislative initiatives it has adopted. What am I talking about? We have the - ill-called, in my opinion - debate on the state of the nation, that general debate which ends with a series of resolutions, but is it then being implemented by the Government? Do you realize whether you have actually responded to Parliament's requests or not? Of course, this in an absolute House of majority is less important, but in a House like this, fragmented House, it has a lot of it. What about the non-legislative proposals that are passed here? Is there a follow-up? Can we tell parliamentarians what the Executive has done? No, no, What about the motions? Does it have any value? Because it's very easy to say, 'Hey look, as I don't want any trouble and tomorrow in the press I don't want to hold a negative position, I'm going to vote in favour.' Yeah, but then the executive doesn't do anything. I don't care what color the Executive is, I'm not here blaming the Socialist Executive because it was presented when the People's Party Executive was here. In fact, there is a precedent in the Basque Parliament, it is not that we are inventing something that does not exist in other parliaments, there is a precedent and, in the case of the Basque Parliament, by the way, proposed by the People's Party. So, can it be done? Yes, it can be done if we want to. And basically for what? To facilitate the monitoring of parliamentarians and also for a self-assessment of the Executive. What do we propose? At the beginning of each session, that is, twice a year, an evaluation report by the Government is presented and a summary of these initiatives is distributed to parliamentarians: degree of compliance, why certain initiatives have not been made, etc. At the same time, a representative of the Government - I suppose it would be up to the Secretary of State - to explain why those initiatives that could not have been carried out, whether it had been materially impossible - that there might be cases - or where the difficulties were or what had happened. It is a possible initiative that I believe would improve the quality of parliamentarianism and make Parliament more relevant and that I hope you will accept, although unfortunately I fear that in the next parliamentary term we will have to repropose it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. We could all wonder what Tuesday's sessions are for here. Are they good for something? My impression, and in that I agree with Mr Esteban, is that they serve little good. We come here, we debate and until the next Tuesday, and the next Tuesday, and the next Tuesday. That is why I consider this initiative to be fully successful. I confess that I have been here almost eight years and it was a surprise to me to see the lack of respect that existed when I noticed that everything that was approved here on a Tuesday had no consequence. First with the propositions of law. We have seen that these proposals for law often languished one week and another, because the Bureau acted in a filibuster way and increased the deadlines for extending amendments to infinity. As a Valencian, I will set as an example the reform of the Valencian statute: one article; almost 50 extensions of the period of amendments. One article. We had to think a lot to amend a single article. Well, that's what happened in the last legislature, in the previous one... As I understand it: parliamentary filibusterism. PNL, proposals for legislation and motions will come today. Sometimes people trust us when we present these proposals here and then they are disappointed when they see that the government in office ignores everything we are able here, some out of conviction and others out of mere posture, to vote in favour. Another example - I am a teacher and I like to give examples -, the motion on citrus fruits that we present Compromises. It was adopted unanimously in this House in February. Tax measures were requested, IBI exemptions were requested, direct aid was requested, the safeguard clause was called for in the agreement with South Africa. What happened? Absolutely nothing, nothing at all. That is why we will vote with conviction on Mr Esteban's proposal, because I believe that it is a proposal that makes us respect this House, that makes us respect ourselves and, above all, that calls for respect for the citizens, who are ultimately the real owners of this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u38	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u39	Thank you, President. The PNV approach is elementary and, of course, our Junts per Catalunya group will vote in favour. Indeed, in most parliaments, Governments must be accountable for their compliance with the non-legislative initiatives adopted here. It is simple and elementary but neither the simple nor the elementary is capable of doing so by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. The Government of Catalonia, on the other hand, is accountable to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Rumors]] But even if the Government of Catalonia does the duties, not like you; even if the Government of Catalonia governs, not like you; and even if it defends fundamental rights, not like you; here everyone fights every day to see who has the 155 largest and fairest and thus scratch some more vote in the Kingdom of Spain. About accountability, I'll give you some example. In December 2017, the Children's Commission approved an increase of the monthly child allowance from EUR 24 to 100, the benefit has increased from EUR 24 to 28, and therefore nothing to do with the mandate; in October 2016 the repeal of the Lomce was approved, neither the People's Party nor the PSOE have fulfilled or executed the mandate; in April 2018 the Plenary of the Congress committed itself to abolishing the system of voting requested and again nothing. By the way, it is also not a guarantee of anything in the Spanish State because, in fact, voting something that the Spanish State does not like can bring several consequences such as imprisonment, exile or even that the president of the Congress mutes, becomes a judge, puts her robe on and suspends elected deputies. It is important to remember that all this is thanks to the satisfaction of the PSOE, because it seems that some people forget that in the face of the violation of our rights - and today they are ours but tomorrow they can be yours - the PSOE is just as incapable, useless and extreme right as they can be Citizens, People's Party or VOX. [[Rumors and Protests]] Even if they're dressed up in bread or even... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u41	Although they make beautiful and adorned speeches with regard to Catalonia and with regard to the sacred unity of the Spanish State, they are and act as the most far-right race in Spain. Thank you very much. Freed political prisoners and exiled. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez del Moral Fuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, on which we must say that we agree; we agree with the approach and would add to Mr Esteban - so that he may also have the reference to Catalonia - that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Catalan Parliament, the Government is obliged in four months' time to give the report on the implementation of the proposals that are well approved in the Commission or in the plenary session of the Parliament. This is, therefore, something that is usually common in parliaments, because precisely the role of parliaments is to control and drive government policies, and here we see that this is not taken into account for as long as Members, Members, entities and associations work to get Parliament to approve proposals for the government to comply. Let us look at some recent examples of the past legislature. Without going further, for example, the reduction of veterinary VAT which Joan Capdevila worked intensively to approve what was approved. Therefore, it is no longer a proposal of ours, of the Republican Left, or of the deputy who drives it, but it is of the Congress of Deputies, and where is it? Nowhere. We could continue with VAT for intimate feminine hygiene items; neither could we. I could say: Well, this has some budgetary counterparts. Well, let's look at other proposals, for example, the NLP that was approved for the police station of the Laietana National Police, or we could go to the dismantling of the Castor; neither. But they could say, "Well, moving the station can result in unforeseen expenses." So let's see some that only involve Parliament, such as repealing the law on the gag, which continues to pursue activists; repealing the criminalization and the crimes of strikes, which continues to pursue unionists. This is not budgeted, but this is not being carried forward by the Congress of Deputies. And all this which is paralysed also means, ladies and gentlemen, a huge frustration for the people who are fighting for this to come forward, people who have been years and months of work, of struggles, of meetings with all the members of the Congress of Deputies to carry out these proposals. But, of course, what are we going to wait for! Let us open the prism a little more and not just focus on non-law propositions. Let us go to the laws, to the law of laws - they say - the law of budgets. Well, just last week, at the hearing of the Minister of Development, we had the opportunity to talk about the fact that the Budgets Act, as far as Development is concerned in Catalonia, is implemented at 65%. That is, a third of what the law commands to execute is not enforced. We could also talk about the Dependency Act, as the Act itself requires the central government to bear 50 per cent of the expenditure, and it is not being met, and this goes behind the back of the autonomous communities. But I could say, well, these are laws from here. Well, let's go to European legislation. The European Parliament's report says that the Spanish State is the least compliant with European legislation and, by the way, the one that pays the most fines for non-compliance and for not transposing Community directives. They therefore also fail to comply with European legislation. I could even say, "Well, it's a long way from Brussels." Let us go, for example, to the statute, which was not only endorsed by the people of Catalonia, but the Courts, as you well know, in their day voted. And we could go to the third additional provision, which, of course, the Spanish State has not complied with either. But we could come and say: Well, as you are very constitutionalists - because this is the word that is always on the table - let's go to the Constitution. But you do not comply with the Constitution either, because if we go to the article of decent housing, decent work, of - and this, unfortunately, in the last few months has been far above the table - effective judicial guardianship, we see that neither do you; nor do you comply with the Constitution itself. We have reviewed laws, we have reviewed European legislation, we have reviewed the statute, we have reviewed the Constitution, but it is that, considering the panorama and the vodevil we are experiencing, you neither fulfill the electoral promises nor fulfil the votes that have given you representation in Congress. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you have a master's degree in non-compliance. And they might even say, "Well, take us to court; if we fail, take us to court now." But do you know what's going on? That we have already done, and the Spanish Government also fails to comply with the judgments of the courts; up to thirty-four decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not been complied with. Without going further, university scholarships, three rulings of the Constitutional Court, the first of the early 1990s, and still do not transfer them. Or we could go to 0.7 of the IRPF for NGOs where there are eleven rulings of the Constitutional Court calling for it to be transferred to the autonomous communities and you ignore it. This reform is therefore necessary. I would dare say, almost, that it is a patch, because if we look at globality the truth is that the picture is discouraging, but of course it is necessary that, at least, the political proposals that the Congress of Deputies, whether in plenary or in the committees, approve have to go through and that, therefore, the Government has to comply with them or, if not, it can explain to the Members who have approved these proposals why they are made or why they are not made. That is why we, in the political paradigm from which I said I say Diego - and I am not just saying it now, but I am voting, agreement and I am not fulfilling - are going to do what we are going to do, as always, is to defend the word, to defend dialogue, to defend commitments and agreements because that, after all, is to defend parliamentaryism and politics. That is why we are voting in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez del Moral. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not reveal any secrets if I tell you that the main function of the Congress of Deputies is the legislative, that is, the drafting and passing of laws, and I hope that one day we will also commit the repeal of many laws that only hinder the lives of the Spaniards. But, in addition to that function, today I would like to emphasize a second and very important function attributed also to this House, which is the function of control over the executive power, which is a function that must be exercised with the greatest efficiency in order, precisely, that we have better governance for all Spaniards and that the desirable balance between powers is sustained on a real basis. We in the VOX Parliamentary Group take this role very seriously and that is why we will always be in favour of any measures that facilitate the control work of the Government, whatever measures are and come from whomever they come. We know that in this work we can sometimes find ourselves alone, but we are not worried, even proud. In fact, in the last session some MP - from the self-proclaimed regenerators, to the good managers who love to shoot public spending, to those of moral misery - called us populists. I answer them today by calling them demagogues, because it is demagogues to pretend that it is the politicians who say what is corrupt and what is not corrupt, Mr Gutiérrez; precisely the politicians who have given such a bad example in Spain in recent years are not for that, that will rather be the task of the judges. It is demagogues to pretend that it is politicians who determine what is historically 'right' lords of the Socialist Party, of Podemos, of Citizens, of the PP and of all regionalist groups. That's exactly what that Historical Memory Law says that they like so much and that it doesn't allow them to disagree. It is demagogues to have already twenty-eight working commissions of forty-three members each and to intend to create still eight new commissions when they could fit perfectly as subcommittees in those existing ones, on the pretext that this is better controlled by the Government. It is clear that the one that is very tight does not cover much. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Better to say: the one that covers a lot little tight. I'm glad to see that some of you are alert, that's a good sign. As I say, it is clear that the one that covers a lot is not too tight and that you are most concerned about covering a lot in your parliamentary groups and tightening the government rather little. We are aware that common sense today represents a real transgression in the eyes of some of your lords, but I assure you that when you come down from your Tower of Babel and approach real Spain and look at the prism of the autonomous, the small merchant, the dependent, an impoverished middle class, you will wonder how you could live so far away from the reality of the Spaniards, so far away from living Spain, from that early Spain and that when it turns on the radio in the morning, at five minutes it turns off because you are sick of politicians like you... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u47	Politicians like you, who do not do your job and want to transfer to the Spaniards the effort to repeat an election; four elections in four years if you get elections again. I want to congratulate you all for being irresponsible. Nor do those politicians who do not work with the Executive seem very interested in facilitating the work of the Legislature, as demonstrated by the initiative we are dealing with today. And it is that this proposal poses more and more obstacles to effective and effective opposition. It involves creating more formulas that in the end allow the Government, between so many new commissions and so many new mechanisms, to pass by practically without control of this House. Thus, you are introducing procedures that hinder legislative action and from Parliament prevent serious opposition from being made to the executive. And while it is true that this initiative for once does not generate any more expenditure for the Spaniards as the new eight commissions of their lords, which only guarantee more money, more offices, more assistants and more status for the pride of their lords, it is also true, as I say, that it does not favour the control of this government at all. That is why we will vote against it. If we also take into account the affection of this executive, like the previous one, for governing on the basis of decree-laws avoiding precisely the control of the Legislature, we find that this reform, if it takes place, will allow the Government to rely on it to escape from the important, which is precisely the political and thorough control of each of its actions. Because let us not forget that this, like the previous one, is a government that uses all kinds of wits to avoid having to hold the Spaniards and their representatives accountable for their activity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end without first denouncing that halo of moderation that the Basque Nationalist Party has built on itself with the complicity and silence of the rest of the parties; well, silence not because the socialists applaud it very much. All Spaniards pay you for defending national sovereignty, not to liquidate it, which is what you have been doing continuously and repeatedly since your foundation, from the foundation by a true racist and supremacist like Sabino Arana. [[Protests]] Mr Esteban, I notice your frustration when you hear Mrs Olona speak, and your surprise, as I know you are not used to someone in this House bringing you the opposite. Precisely because of this, Members of the Spanish PNV Parliament, precisely because of this, when you read in your explanatory statement that this proposal seeks to remedy Parliament's undermining, that is, that you are now going to defend Parliament? Are you going to defend control procedures now? You, who have been exercising control over successive governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party outside this House for decades, with your own control mechanisms? You, Mr. Esteban? Anyway. [[Mr Esteban Bravo asks for the floor]] The real undermining of Parliament, where the national sovereignty of the Spanish people as a whole resides, is the presence of parties like yours. The presence of parties such as the PNV, such as the PDeCAT, such as the ERC... [[Mr Esteban Bravo: Madam President, Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure. The question has to be called.]] Madam President, I do understand that you are very frustrated, but if you allow me to finish, then you answer me.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u48	Mr. Esteban, please. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u49	Indeed, Mr Esteban, the presence of your party, the PNV, the PDECAT, the ERC and Bildu, that is the real anomaly that prevents the normal functioning of the Spanish Parliament. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u50	You'd have to finish, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u51	Parties like yours in any other civilized country would be illegalized, would never have existed, would certainly never have entered a Parliament like this for infringing on the indivisible unity of the Spanish nation, Article 2. [[Rumors.-Protests]] I see you're making gestures. Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution. I recommend it. In that you can also accuse us of populists, do so you and your partners; your past or future partners, we don't care. Please explain to your voters that you are in favour of parties that, using the public resources of the nation as a whole, are dedicated to invigorating it. In the meantime, we, impassioned by their contempt, will continue to work for their illegalization, even though we remain alone.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u52	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u53	I'm done. Because, gentlemen of PNV, Bildu, PDECAT and ERC, there is no greater nonsense than your mere presence in this House. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Ohhh!-Applause.-Mr Esteban Bravo asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u54	Mr. Esteban...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u55	Madam President, to quote an article from the Rules of Procedure, not to generate controversy. I am entitled to quote the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u56	Mr. Esteban, we're not listening to you. For what article do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u57	For Rule 102, Madam President, which is not much used in this House, but it is time for us to resurrect it.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u58	Mr. Esteban, it's the Presidency that...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u59	'The speakers will be called to the question whenever they are outside of it...'. I've had a great time with the filipica...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u60	Mr. Esteban, I'm not giving you the floor. Rule 102 is interpreted by the Presidency and applied by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u61	That's why we alluded to...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u62	Mr Esteban, thank you very much for trying to help the Presidency. Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u63	Good afternoon, President. I am going to stick to the question. This is not the first time we have had this debate in plenary. In fact, the debate on regulatory reforms is ongoing. However, it draws attention to the fact that structural reforms relating to democratic regeneration rarely come to fruition. We have as our legislative branch the imperative need to move forward with the necessary amendments to the Congressional Rules that heal and overcome not only the obvious challenges of parliamentary life, but also the democratic quality of this country. What is called for by this reform, in short, is that the tools and mechanisms for the legislative power should be put into effect in the face of the expansive action of the Government, and there we agree. The substance of this initiative points to a demand for democratic openness and flexibility, a flexibility that would have to be the norm vis-à-vis the old policy of imposing absolute majority voting. We understand that there are still historical suspicions that hold back changes in the rules of Congress. However, if we really want to move towards the internal democratization of State institutions, we need effective parliamentary tools that become valid and appropriate instruments to fulfil the mandate of representation. Today this Parliament has only symbolic tools in front of the Government, which has no obligation to comply with any of the non-legislative proposals adopted here. Non-legislative proposals are often left on wet paper because they do not involve any political responsibility or government response; therefore, they have no role beyond making a specific problem visible. They have become a senseless burden that translates into institutional wear and loss of legitimacy of the Legislature. However, the nature of non-law propositions is also that of expressing the will of the sovereign and legitimately elected House. If there is a consensus among the parliamentary groups that determine the majority will of the House, the Government should adapt its action to that will. The general will of the House cannot be reduced to the symbolic, to a mere declaration of intent. We believe that this amendment is intended to restore to non-legislative proposals an original essence of their role in promoting government activity. Our group will support this initiative because we believe that it is necessary to revalue this figure and give an effective link to its approval, as a result of the expression of the majority of the forces represented in the House through the vote after its deliberation. We therefore support the effective and effective use of parliamentary instruments on government actions. We support a better distribution of power by matching the parliamentary model, that is, an empowerment that has a democratic translation into state governance. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this initiative because we believe it is part of a much broader necessary reform of the Congress of Deputies. We believe that it is essential that with these acts we establish indelible traces that lead us to a way of doing politics in which political sovereignty by the Legislature is not ceded, but that we open the democratic game so that the consensus represented by the social majority is revalued. Democracy is a process in constant construction, infinitely perfectable, and we need to take small steps like this to make much more important progress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Elizo. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an initiative by the Basque Nationalist Group which is somewhat counter-productive. It certainly wasn't one of their priorities, but the circumstances of this legislature make this initiative the one to be discussed today. Some things have been said that I would like to need. Mrs Nogueras i Camero spoke of exiles, that the Government of Catalonia was accountable to Parliament and, in this country, we are exiled, but fled. There are fugitives from justice. This is the technical name of those who precisely refuse to be held accountable to justice, which is where one has to be held accountable, when one has allegedly committed crimes, Mrs Nogueras. [[Applauds]] That is, if they are an example of something, it is precisely non-accountability. Let's use the names accurately and talk about fugitives and not exiles. Accountability is what this initiative of the Basque Group is about. He spoke of a report that the Government had to refer to the House on the extent to which non-legislative initiatives were being implemented. Firstly, I must say that we will support this initiative as we did in the last parliamentary term. We are presenting some amendments and we will be doing so in the same way in this legislature. It is a question of protecting one of the functions that all spokesmen have mentioned: the impetus and direction of the Government's action, a function that has become more and more valuable, especially because once these iron majorities of bipartisanism have been broken, it is evident that this House becomes a central space in the political debate, and a Government cannot be held behind the back of the House representing the popular will, in the same way that neither can be claimed through non-legislative initiatives to replace the role of the Executive. In this respect, responsibility must be sought because on many occasions - I think Mr Baldoví said earlier - initiatives are being put forward which everyone knows are not going to be complied with, either because the corresponding budget allocation is missing or because the Executive is being asked to do something that is not going to be able to comply with. If we give courage and importance to this function of guidance and control, or if we abstain from such initiatives or - as I tell you - we do not create any more frustration for the citizens, which is what we do on many occasions with this activity. This initiative has already been discussed in this House in other legislatures and in addition this mechanism of control and accountability exists in most autonomous parliaments, not only in the Basque Parliament, Mr Esteban. Most autonomous parliaments have these instruments of accountability by the Government. Even the Senate establishes in section 178.2 of its rules of procedure a mechanism of accountability similar to that brought here today. The anomaly is that it does not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, so it seems reasonable that this reform should be undertaken. As I have said, citizens will be putting forward a number of reforms, precisely because we believe that the control mechanisms proposed here are excessively weak and, above all, if the repeated non-compliance with this function of government guidance occurs, there must be some kind of political sanction - understand me correctly - and there is no better political sanction than discussing in this House the reasons why these non-compliances occur. That is why we propose that these reports should end up being debated in plenary. Beyond this issue, on which I believe there is a broad consensus, this debate allows me today to reflect very well on the respect for the role of this House by the various executives, the respect for a basic principle of the rule of law and our constitutional system, the separation of powers. There's a very serious deficit here that we've been dragging for a long time. In the golden age of bipartisanism, where ironic legislative majorities also accompanied the political colour of the Executive, it is clear that this House has lived subordinate to what it wanted to order and command the Executive, so that separation of powers was absolutely erased. We have seen appointments of members of the General Council of the Judiciary or other initiatives where it was practically the leadership of the political parties that replaced the debate and the role of this House. I will give some rather more recent example that shows that we have a deficit in compliance with this principle of separation of powers: a government in office that refuses to submit to the control of the House arguing that, precisely because it does not have the confidence of this House, it does not have to be held accountable. This resulted in a conflict of powers before the Constitutional Court and it was the Constitutional Court that had to replenish the constitutional order and say that, precisely because it does not have the confidence of the House, it has to be subject to even more control and it has to appear and give account. By the way, this conflict of powers whose paternity I have heard attributed to several spokesmen of the Socialist Party I am referring to the conflict of powers generated by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in the XI legislature is not a conflict of powers whose paternity or motherhood is of the Socialist Party. That was an initiative that we jointly signed by all the groups in this House, except the People's Parliamentary Group, which was the addressee of it. That was an initiative that prompted the Bureau of that legislature in which some role had this deputy who is talking to them and some role had Citizens in reaching those majorities. [[Applauds]] Therefore, stop attributing successes that are not theirs; in any case, they would be shared by all the groups in this House. Another example of non-respect for the separation of powers is the emergency legislation with decreeslaws converted into ordinary legislation: thirty-four decreeslaws in ten months of government and another six with the Chambers already dissolved and called for elections. The decreeley became an instrument of pre-election propaganda used without any kind of blush. It is a Congress that plans its activity in the service of the strategy of the Government: commissions that are not constituted; a Permanent Diputation that in July was not even constituted, when it is precisely the one that has to maintain the powers of this House or, already most blushing, a President of the Government who even fails to fulfil the legal obligation to appear after the European Councils. These European councils have been very important, and they had to come along almost three months after they had taken place, when it came to fulfilling a legal obligation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this initiative, which updates the regulation, modernises it and introduces accountability mechanisms, but I also tell you that the regulation is a tool, an instrument at the service of political activity. Beyond that regulation, that instrument, the first thing that you would have to start doing, now that you are in the government, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, or that you would have to start doing when you were, gentlemen of the People's Party, is to respect that principle of separation of powers and not to disrespect this House. In the end, disrespecting this House is not disrespecting us, it is disrespecting the citizens, and I believe that we are in a situation where citizens no longer admit any more disrespect. Consequently, beyond regulatory reforms, compliance with constitutional principles and the first of these is the separation of powers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u66	Thank you, Mr. Prendes. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Borrego Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u67	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to show my support and that of my whole group to the thousands of families affected by last week's cold drop. In addition, the People's Parliamentary Group calls for the immediate declaration of the areas affected by a civil protection emergency and for immediate aid to be given to all those affected. [[Applauds]] The amendment to the regulation that we are discussing and in which almost all of us agree is correct, but perhaps we should be more ambitious when it comes to amending it, seeking to bring our activity much closer to the ambitions and problems of the citizens, modernising the behaviour of the House, giving greater relevance to the Members vis-à-vis the groups and, of course, bringing the debates much closer to the present and being more immediate in them. The functions of impetus, guidance and political direction, which are the ones that support the parliamentary initiatives to which we are referring, are linked with the classic functions of Parliament: legislative and control, to which they complement and complement. All the complexity of political, economic and social life is projected on Parliament and on the parliamentary groups which must hijack answers and points of position which fall within their competence, but it is up to the Government to take the action or decision that they demand, in order for something to be done, to stop doing something or to do it differently from the way it is being done. These parliamentary initiatives, which take the form, as we all know, of non-legislative proposals, resolutions or motions, make Parliament politically present and strengthen its centrality as the democratic institution par excellence, which has the right and, above all, the duty to demand, remember, reconfirm and criticize the Government, which is precisely born in Parliament. The adoption of these initiatives does not have legal effects, we do not want to be confused, but what we do know, and we want to understand, is that we must follow their course and see how they have evolved. Approval cannot immediately give way to frustration, as it is happening, because it is aware that nothing is going to be achieved; because initiatives are thrown into the trash bin or drawer less by hand of the corresponding department; because it is not even in any way followed their compliance or non-compliance. Parliament can be left unpunished and, if I may, mocked by governmental indifference. That is why we support, as we also supported two years ago, this initiative whose explanatory statement we would like to complete, but for that there is the process of amendments, if we come to it and there is no dissolution of the House next week. In addition, we announce that we will submit to the groups for consideration that the presentation of this report in the proposal for this general report will not be seen by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but that it can be seen in each of the relevant committees of the House on the subject, which we believe is far more logical. Ladies and gentlemen, my group would also like to point out that we must get respect for Parliament. We must avoid attitudes such as those that the current Government is putting into practice, manipulating the functioning of Parliament and putting this House, as it is already doing with Spanish Broadcasting or the CIS, at the service of its party interests. It cannot be that the opposition groups have put forward legislative proposals months ago and that the Government has not given its assent to their debate, when the Socialist Party has done so with proposals from the group that supports the Government, presented several months later, and everything to try to turn the Plenary into electoral acts of the Socialist Party, trying to silence the initiatives of the PSOE - now we are no longer on social Fridays, now we are on election Tuesdays -. For example, today we are debating this reform of the Rules of Procedure and it was not intended that the reform presented earlier by the People's Parliamentary Group, signed by many of its Members, should be discussed. What did we want to discuss in this reform of the Rules of Procedure? The formula for compliance with the Constitution. Perhaps discussing this was not of interest to the Government or its partners. It cannot be that from the Executive it is controlled, and less in such a crude way, to Parliament, however long the PSOE maintains the thesis on the death of Montesquieu. The People's Parliamentary Group maintains the need to restore the centrality of Parliament in political life, the non-interference of the executive power in the legislature, and for this it is necessary to reform in depth and with consensus, which I hope we will achieve in this or in another legislature, the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Borrego. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u69	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of taking account of the proposal for the reform of the Rules of Procedure presented by the Basque Nationalist Group. We are now faced with an anomaly, because we are debating for the second time, and I am afraid it can be for the third time, a single proposal. This is not normal, and it has to lead us to a minimal reflection on what the democratic health of this Congress is. To debate for debate, to waste time, to have a debate repeated three times in front of an issue like this, is an important issue, which is still a tip of the iceberg that hides the need for a comprehensive reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure. In the previous debate, which took place in 2017, in this very Chamber, the speaker of the Socialist Group has already pointed out something very interesting, and it is that in 2003 - see - the Socialist Group also put forward a proposal for an in-depth reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress; and that proposal contained, precisely, one mentioned in terms very similar, almost identical, to the proposal that we are debating here today in relation to the control of resolutions without force of law. If we take advantage of this debate, it is time to go to the depth of the issue, which is what the democratic health of this Congress is. Is Congress responding to its functions authentically: legislative function, legislative production, accountability, opposition control over the government in office, defence of democracy? Or are we doing it wrong and, therefore, are we strengthening those populist parties, enemy parties of democracy, enemies of the Constitution, which are here today and are called extreme right, and other forces that do not respect the Constitution and border democracy? Are we in a real position to defend democracy with a Parliament with so many shortcomings? Here it has been lived, not long ago, how a government continually vetoed the processing of proposals for legislation on grounds of budgetary impact. It has been a very recent experience here how the Bureau of Parliament blocked, by means of treasuries, the processing, by means of successive extensions of the period of submission of amendments, of proposals for legislation. Here things have been experienced that are unacceptable in a democratic parliamentary system. We can even ask ourselves: Given these months, do we all have the conviction that we have earned the salary, that we are doing our job well? Or are we contributing to a disaffection of the citizenship of an institution as important as Parliament? The Socialists want - and I hope that we can do so in this parliamentary term, although it is difficult for us to do so - to have an in-depth debate, since the search for consensus, for a comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress. We are looking for greater legislative output; a more agile operation; a Parliament more connected with society; ways of deliberative participation in the legislative process; a better use, now that a new website is being installed, updating it and modernizing it, because information and communication technologies allow for forms of participation, accessibility, legislative footprint; all of this, together with something that has failed because it has gone wrong, an ethical code that we have not even been able to approve with all the consequences; an ethical code that collects such important issues as the regulation of lobbyists, interest groups, or effective control, where appropriate, of conflicts of interest, prior declarations of interests that are more complete, more precise, to then avoid abnormal or illegal situations. All this is what we have pending in the coming months or years, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would also like to point out that this is an outstanding subject for Spanish democracy; that we are at the point of view of citizenship; that what we do here or stop doing contributes - as I said - to that disaffection, to that distancing, to that loss of prestige of the parliamentary institution and to that loss of confidence in politicians, in politics and in political groups, and therefore we cannot continue to disappoint the citizens who voted for us, who have brought us here and who certainly pay us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not being exemplary in this Congress, in this Parliament. So let us take the blame, make a very serious amendment and rectify all of them. In case I don't have a chance, in case I wish you Merry Christmas. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u70	Thank you, Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u71	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to alleviate the damage caused by floods and other disasters. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Franco Pardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying that in my parliamentary group, which I am speaking on today, we have raised and continue to raise this white glove initiative, highlighting only positive aspects, but I am looking with surprise, not without indignation, at how some parliamentary groups try to exercise a certain parliamentary filibusterism. I understand that there has been some frustration in some or some parliamentary groups for not being the first to present this non-law proposal, but, ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists are simply presenting it because we want to help people who have suffered all kinds of damage from the weather events that occurred during the summer in Spain. With regard to the amendments, I would first like to thank all the groups that have tabled amendments because I am sure they have done so with the best of intentions to improve our text, and I would also like to say that we are going to accept the number three compromises, and of course the one tabled by the Socialist Group, which updates this whole problem. We appreciate all those that have been presented, but it is true that some were redundant and that, above all, the spirit of many of them is already reflected in the non-law proposal presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It's been a summer, it's been a summer, with too many weather events that somehow have conditioned the lives of so many people. We started in June with a fire in the province of Tarragona that destroyed 6,000 hectares. We continue with another fire that started in Toledo and also affected the Community of Madrid and destroyed 3000 hectares. Then there were floods in Navarre, for example, with a dead man in Tafalla. Then came the result of an isolated depression at high levels, other floods that swept Spain from west to east causing serious damage to the Peninsula and, in this case, to the Balearic Islands: damage to agriculture and damage to infrastructure as well. Madrid was not left out of this, called vulgarly, cold drop and municipalities such as Arganda, Valdemoro, Getafe and Fuenlabrada suffered the consequences. I had the opportunity to visit the municipality of Arganda and witnessed the frustration and defencelessness that existed among many inhabitants of this municipality and that, of course, is transferable to all the inhabitants affected by the cold drop and the different weather events that have occurred. For example, some rivers also overflowed in Galicia. In Aragon and La Rioja there was serious damage that affected many crops and especially in La Rioja many vineyards. In Extremadura, in addition, there was a double factor, a double involvement of destructive character: first there was a fire and then the torrential rains caused the ashes of that fire to cause an environmental damage that seems almost irreparable. In Castile and León they also suffered these consequences and, in Castile-La Mancha, with serious damage to agriculture, especially the vine. In the Valencian Community, especially in the province of Alicante, they also suffered the consequences of this cold drop. I do not want to forget the fires - more fires - in particular the huge one that took place in Gran Canaria and several that took place in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The most serious thing undoubtedly happened a few days ago in the area of the southeast peninsula, specifically in Andalusia, Valencia, Murcia and Castilla-La Mancha, with loss of human life. There are already seven people who have lost their lives as a result of these floods, mainly the provinces most affected are those of Albacete, Alicante and Murcia. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, not to go to a municipality by municipality because I do not have time, but what I say for these communities is valid for all the municipalities of Spain, and I want everyone to feel represented by the words I am saying right now. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my parliamentary group has tabled this non-legislative proposal, where it calls for the declaration of a zone seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection, i.e. the application of Law 17/2015, which specifically in its article 24 contains a series of measures that help to alleviate the effects of this disaster with direct aid, compensation and tax benefits. In short, a set of aids which, if they do not solve the problems created by the cold drop, will certainly help to alleviate them. Ladies and gentlemen, after saying what I said at first, I want to go back to the constructive line. It's a moment of unity and effectiveness, it's a time to put ourselves at the service of people. All we have to do now, all we have to care about is to respond immediately to this tragedy, and we have to respond as a country, all together, without in this case, without political differences prevailing in these matters over the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the people, the people, demand an effective and rapid reaction, that is, without electoral flourishing; the only photos that we are interested in now and that we must take into account are those that reflect the destruction, the shambles and - why not say it - also the impotence of many people in the situations that have affected them. That is the picture, those are the only photos that we should be interested in right now by the Members of this House. [[Applauds]] To help our people, ladies and gentlemen, does not therefore admit excuses or delays. I want to take advantage of this moment and this opportunity given me by the Congress of Deputies to make some very well-deserved recognitions. I would like to express my gratitude, for example, to the local police, to the firemen, to the security forces and bodies, to the three perfectly coordinated armies that have worked in the area, to the Emergency Military Unit, to the Civil Protection Unit, to the emergency services, to the health services, to all the people in good faith who have worked together to alleviate these effects, and above all and above all to that genuine lesson of solidarity that the citizens concerned have given us, helping each other, giving up their daily occupations to help their neighbours, to be on the side of those who need them. It is a lesson that we have to take into account those who are representatives of those citizens in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u73	Mr. Franco, you'd have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u74	I'm done. Finally, I would also like to highlight the magnificent coordination carried out by the Spanish Government, coordination and sensitivity, which are two fundamental themes. I conclude with a matter in which we will certainly not all agree and there are differences, and it is in the importance of the State, the importance of the size of the State for situations like this. Socialists have always defended a strong state, because this strengthens us even more in our thesis. The citizens are waiting for us, let us give them answers, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u75	Thank you, Mr. Franco. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which in this turn will also fix a position, first of all, by Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. As a Valencian I want to start with a few verses from the poet of Xàtiva Raimon: In my country the rain does not sap rain: / or plou poc or plou mass; / if plou poc is the same, / if plou mass is the catastrophe. Who's taking the rain to school? In my country the rain does not rain: either it is drought or it is catastrophe. Who's gonna take the rain to school? Suddenly this rain has made us learn geography at blows: Orihuela, Redovan, Almoradi, Dolores, Old Daya, Vega Baja, Ontinyent, Font de la Figuera, Agullent... Stories we've been placing on the map. I have been able to speak to dismayed mayors, overwhelmed above all by the dramas of their neighbors - those we have been in municipal politics we can understand - and they only ask that we not fight, they only ask for speed, they only ask that we not escape and that we also learn from the mistakes that have been made. I'm done. Compromis has made three amendments; three amendments in a constructive spirit. The first and second are to supplement and place the Valencian territory in this GNP, and the third is to require the Government to apply for Community aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund to help people and to ensure that all damaged infrastructure of all kinds can be rescued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Secondly, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we would like to transfer the solidarity of the Union of the Navarro People to all the victims and to all those who have suffered from the floods this summer, especially also, as shipwrecks, to those who did so in July in the town of Tafalla and in other nearby areas. We wanted to make this amendment, also with a white glove and also with the aim of helping, to make it clear that, although the explanatory statement already contains the floods in Tafalla, it is true that when we read the article in point one, special emphasis was placed on those in August, and I believe that in this way it is better written that Navarra is also asking for the declaration. It seems very important to us that the Spanish Government should do so, because we understand that we cannot turn our backs on the floods that occurred in July, in which one person lost his life, when there are many families who lost everything and where there are devastated businesses that need the help of all, and that this House unanimously shows their support and support, and that help is provided quickly so that these people can recover normality as soon as possible. That is the objective of the amendment and I believe it is a shared objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u80	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would also like to express solidarity with those affected by the floods, especially with the families of the victims. I also say that our position will be to vote in favour on this matter, although I also want to say one thing: this is simply a GNP and I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Government, through its parliamentary group, that in January this year a decree law was already passed that directly affected floods in Cantabria, which were the largest in the last few years to remember, and that it is pending a development of a decree at least since July in which they have all the necessary information. That's why I want to remember that the images are now very recent, and once the images are passed, the papers are forgotten. I therefore ask you, while speeding up the procedures to solve these disasters, not to forget the ones that are pending and that are also very recent, those of the year 2018 and those of the first quarter of 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Finally, Mr Iñarritu García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, since Euskal Herria Bildu - as those who have spoken before me - we have also expressed our solidarity with all the victims of the disasters that have occurred and with all the people affected by those disasters that have caused the weather in recent months. Secondly, I share what the Socialist Group's spokesman said, these must not be proposed for political confrontation. Moreover, we even support the UPN amendment on Tafalla because, while we agree with the proposals that they have made mostly in their non-legislative proposal and the measures they propose, it is also true that something is missing. There is a lack of speed, which they say 'as soon as possible', as some other spokesman pointed out; from what happened in Tafalla it has been more than two months and the town hall, the families, the affected and the affected continue to wait for that statement that was previously called a catastrophic zone, now I see that it is called a zone seriously affected by civil protection emergencies. The Government must be urged to proceed quickly, to make such a declaration in order to ensure that such aid is effective. Because while it is not negative that such helicopter visits or non-law proposals take place - then we will see how effective they are, as we were talking about in the previous proposal - what is urgent and necessary is that this statement be speeded up. In that I do believe that you, the party that supports the Government, can do something: to urge as soon as possible that these declarations and proposals are not left in the water of drunkards and that they become effective as soon as possible. We will simply support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u83	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u84	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. We also want to start the intervention by showing our solidarity with the victims and with all those affected by the serious phenomena produced during this week and also during the summer period. In recent years and as a result of climate change, extreme heat and rainfall are becoming more frequent, a phenomenon with environmental, social and economic consequences that is leading us to disaster situations in different parts of the planet. Accidents which have caused emergency situations and which substantially alter the living conditions of the population and citizens, and cause serious personal and material damage, both in the private and public spheres, and which also entail significant expenses for society and the economy as a whole. Experiences and forecasts of more floods and droughts and other extreme weather conditions should lead us to take measures to better adapt to the new climate realities. The size of the emergency, the restoration of essential public services, and ultimately the recovery of normality make it necessary not only to involve local and territorial administrations in the exercise of their powers, but also that of the Central Administration in a complementary and subsidiary way, especially in accordance with the principle of solidarity. It is therefore necessary to enable all channels for the victims to have access to the aid provided for in the various administrations - as the spokesman for Bildu has also said - as soon as possible. In order for the injured party to be able to access and apply for such aid provided for when these phenomena occur, it is necessary to have an assessment of the damage, so that, from the same point of view, the State administration makes such a declaration of an area seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection. It is at least curious that such a statement has not yet taken place when some events took place there in June. Specifically and in the case of Navarra in July. In addition, there is already a damage assessment. The Foral Community has taken note of this fact. In addition, the Geroa Bai group asked last week in Parliament about this issue, and there was no concrete action. The truth is that there is still no declaration of a zone seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection by the Government either for Navarra or for the rest of the affected communities. The fact that a Government is in office and the instability in which we find ourselves can justify this delay. The damage is substantial and what they need is maximum agility on the part of the administrations. This group agrees with the substance described in the non-legislative proposal, but we had registered an amendment because we believed that there was a need to set time limits for that declaration of area seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection. The proposal does indicate the willingness to make such a statement, but we do not know when, that is to say when they are going to make such a statement; a time limit that is essential for this group, because as I have said before, reparation must be possible in the shortest possible time before an emergency response is urgent. We therefore felt that we needed to start a certain and concrete compromise, and that is that we should not forget that, apart from being in a functioning Government, we are practically faced with elections around the corner, and this fact must not be used as an excuse to delay this declaration of emergency over time. That is why our amendment to amend point 2 was in the process of setting that time limit. And it is that often a GNP as an instrument of impetus to the political action of the government that does not concretely seem to serve little of the purpose presented. You told us that all the amendments tabled were part of your initiative. We do not believe that ours is reflected in your non-legislative proposal, but we do agree with the amendments tabled by Compromís. Political instability cannot therefore co-ordinate all the actions of the Government in office. Citizenship demands concrete solutions and answers, especially in such extreme cases, because it is necessary not to delay its resolution over time. That is why our amendment was intended only to offer greater security and certainty to each affected municipality. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u86	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a desolating weekend with the devastation and terrible consequences of the cold drop storm. First of all, I would like to send a warm embrace to all the neighbours of the Valencia, Murcia, Andalusia, Castilla-La Mancha and Madrid. Unfortunately he has taken the most precious of all: seven lives. All our solidarity and support. [[Applauds]] This summer's end has undoubtedly been one of the worst to remember from a climate point of view, and it seems clear that the impact of climate change forces a debate on the mechanisms for planning and preventing natural disasters and adapting to a reality that is increasingly impossible to hide. I do not want to make an alarmist or trembling speech, but what has been done so far is insufficient, and we must begin to work on the basis of scientific evidence, which indicates that what seems to us to be temporary or exceptional today is on the way to becoming a structural change that would lead, on the one hand, to a strong increase in risks of drought, which will be more and more frequent, long and intense, favoring increasingly extreme fires; and on the other hand, floods, with more frequent growth and increasing maximum flows. This approach is not an elucubration of our group, but is part of the conclusions contained in the report of the Subcommittee on Water and Climate Change adopted in the previous parliamentary term, which reflects not only the current shortcomings, but various pragmatic proposals for correcting them. Today, major budgetary efforts are focused on remedial actions to address the effects, while prevention and adaptation policies should increasingly prevail. In this regard, the work of the subcommission points to a strategy for disaster planning and prevention, such as floods or fires. Look, I want to refer to what touched me most this summer, the fire on the banks of Ebre, which affected eight municipalities at the crossing of three regions of Tarragona and Lleida, and where only in Flix, my town, the fire destroyed 4000 hectares. After the revelations for helping displaced families from their homes and managing the emergency of the first days, the municipalities must face the disaster recovery, and to this end the municipalities of many of these municipalities claimed to be declared as an area seriously affected by a civil protection emergency. We therefore welcome the measures proposed here in the GNP, but I would like to point out the scope of some of them. As regards aid for material damage, these should include buildings which are neither the first homes nor the headquarters of enterprises or administrations; there are many cases where this limiting fact has left the families concerned without aid. Also, the limitations on the costs of local corporations provided for in Article 5(b) of Royal Decree 307/2005 should not be applied, allowing all costs incurred by municipalities to be met. As far as point 4 is concerned, please do not remain in assessing, apply the index reductions, as has already been requested from many municipalities. As a general reflection, I will say that the well-intentioned actions that you are proposing must be pursued with institutional loyalty with the administrations that are already acting on these catastrophes. In the case of Catalonia, the Department of Agriculture, with Councillor Jordà at the front, has already drawn up a plan of action against the fires, which must be the guide for all future actions with which the State wants to contribute. Do not be tempted to implement once again a package of aid that overlaps or contravenes the measures already taken. Finally I want to send a greeting to all the payees and people who live on earth and who, because of the disasters we are experiencing, see how they have suddenly lost everything. We'll all make it possible for us to bounce back. Turn around. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Pujol. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to convey our condolences from the VOX Parliamentary Group to the families of those who died from the floods that have occurred in various parts of Spain in recent days. With regard to the non-legislative proposal, the VOX Group will vote in favour, although it has already been anticipated that our addendum amendment will be rejected, that the only real intention was to extend the temporal and geographical extension of the declaration to the disasters experienced during the first half of September; it was not an opportunistic issue, simply the non-legislative proposal was incomplete and we wanted to complete it. Apart from what we have seen on television, that the images speak for themselves about the terrible consequences of the floods, it is also good to go to the data, and it is Aemet who has concluded that in the Vega Baja de Alicante the rains have been the most catastrophic in one hundred and forty years in this region; or in Almería, where it quantifies the daily precipitation suffered in that area as the highest since 1968; or also in Murcia, where it considers that it has been the highest since 1984, which justified as previously said the amendment of addition that had been presented. On the other hand, we hope that once the government is called upon to act, compensation will be quantified as quickly as possible and paid as quickly as possible, so that it will not happen, for example - I would say as an example - as with the EUR 10 million budget approved in the 2018 State General Budgets for a plan on the prevention of the Ebro River avenues, of which not a single euro has yet been implemented. The Aragonese urgently hope, in this case, that this plan will be committed because otherwise, and as has been happening constantly since 2003, next spring we will have another laugh, and unfortunately we will also have material damage, and hopefully they are not personal, another year. And even if these are budgets approved by a previous government and not by that government, that is no obstacle for it to be able to implement such an important item to prevent flooding on the Ebro River. We hope that what has happened these days will teach us that it is more important to prevent than to cure, and that we will therefore emphasize prevention plans in order to avoid, to the extent possible, these situations occurring again or at least to alleviate in part, because, of course, meteorological phenomena are not subject to human decisions or wills. All this justifies, in our view, the vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal, despite the rejection, which has already been anticipated, of our addendum amendment. I'm done. Mr Zaragoza, after your summer storms against my party on Twitter, you know: I hate VOX, I can't stand VOX, it turns out that now we're going to vote the same; you're going to vote the same as the far right, look where, look where. [[Applauds]] And I also assure you, I am convinced, that today you are going to have your own floods and overflows, but not water, nightmares, many nightmares that you are going to have today. Anyway, I'm telling you, don't worry, tomorrow's another day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u89	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, I have the floor, first of all, Mr GómezReino Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u90	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, as a Galician, I have to condemn and regret the savage murders of macho violence that took place yesterday in Valga, Pontevedra. [[Applauds]] And I want to stress that it is shameful that two of the three murdered women will not even be considered victims of male violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, Mr Franco, thank you for this initiative, it is clear that we will support it. In any case, you are taking the bad habits of the People's Party, which is to adopt by executive way issues that should come to the legislative sphere and yet bring here, to the legislative sphere, issues that are essentially for the executive. We must not deceive people, absolutely all the measures of this GNP depend on the Council of Ministers. And since they want to bring things to debate, in environmental matters we suggest that they could have brought the legalization of the harmful and explosive Reganosa plant, in the Ferrol ria, which has five sentences against the Supreme and which you have approved by the back door. [[Applauds]] In any case, it is well the deployment of ministers and ministers in the areas dramatically affected this week by the DANA, by the cold drop, but please make a Council of Ministers and approve at once the declaration of catastrophic zone for all areas affected this summer by fires and floods in Galicia, Navarre, Madrid, Valencia, Andalusia or Murcia. In any case, there are two fundamental reasons behind the fires and floods that we are suffering: on the one hand, climate change and, on the other hand, the urban speculation that has been lived in this country for years, years of bipartisanism, of governments of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party that have allowed speculation and non-compliance with urban regulations, which favor floods. In Spain there are about 50 000 constructions and more than 700,000 people living today on waterways and flood areas that do not comply with the regulations. I think we'll have to do something more than a GNP. [[Applauds]] On climate change, we must say this: we are not doing what is necessary to combat climate change. Let us hope, at least, that today, precisely at this parliamentary seat at the request of our group, the climate emergency declaration will be adopted once and for all. And two points to finish. Floods in Baleares and Malaga, October 2018. The urgent aid was approved on 26 January 2019. You haven't seen a hard one yet, gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] Secondly, today, with regard to these floods, the Government is telling us that there is no need to develop any special insurance lines for crops in flood areas. It's not serious, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In any case and ultimately, Galicia, Navarre, Aragon, Extremadura, Balearic Islands, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Catalonia, Murcia and Valencia are waiting not for this GNP, they are waiting for the Council of Ministers to approve these measures and for once and for all the compensation corresponding to the citizenry to arrive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Pérez Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u92	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen the devastating images that have left the cold drop on my land, particularly in the Vega Baja and in areas of Murcia near the Segura River, a cold drop that, unfortunately, has left us seven dead for now. We have seen houses, shops, crops and even hospitals completely flooded, but we have also seen a wave of solidarity and emergency equipment and public services that, as always, have given everything. For now the situation requires that administrations at different levels work in tune, and, if aid is to arrive as soon as possible instead of taking advantage of the situation, what we have to do, in fact, is not fight each other. But let's go to the causes. I want to talk about why this happened. Mainly because those who have ruled have always allowed and sometimes even contributed to speculative and predatory urbanism, which has left the rivers without space and has not respected flood zones. [[Applauds]] It has been built without stopping in areas of risk, where, in addition, working people always live and without resources, which now needs institutions to give a firm response. But I also want to make a general reflection: These episodes are becoming more frequent and more intense because the Mediterranean Sea is warming above its possibilities. Are we going to have the nerve to ask the planet to tighten its belt or are we going to apply environmental policies once and for all to the point? [[Applauds]] More and more people separate the containers, the cardboard and the organic, throw the trash into five different cubes, avoid using the car and carry cloth bags to the supermarket to avoid using plastic. We have done it, ladies and gentlemen. But you know what? Whatever. It is good to bring a granite of sand, but it doesn't matter, because until the government dares to tell the contaminating companies, that with their mode of production they are signing the death sentence of the land, we will not be doing enough. As far as I know, we're here as public representatives...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u93	Mrs. Pérez, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u94	I'm done. ... to defend the general interest, not the particular interest of companies that are created above good and evil, since there is no greater representation of the common good and the general interest than the struggle for the sustainability of the planet. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to make a reminder. To those who do not want to assume that 15-M happened - because it happened - and have been thinking for a long time that we are only looking at November 10 in our agendas, I say one thing: Aim this date, September 27, because that day, another 15-M, this time climate, environmentalist, will again explode in the face for not listening to my generation and not facing this challenge with the courage it deserves. So, I'll see you there. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arteaga Espinosa de los Monteros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today for the first time from this rostrum, and I am doing so on a matter which is extremely worrying to all of us. Throughout this summer there have been serious weather events, which have caused very high material damage, but, above all, we have had to regret several dead people, and that is something that particularly hurts all of us here, of course. In Navarre, floods occurred at the beginning of the summer, and the most widespread events, territorially speaking, took place between 26 and 27 August, when a DANA or cold drop, which is as we all know it, traveled from west to this country. The Community of Madrid, Galicia, Aragon, Extremadura, La Rioja, Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, the Valencian Community, Baleares suffered floods and hails whose devastating consequences are still visible right now: the damage is substantial; and in the case of Tarragona, Madrid and Toledo we are talking about serious forest fires. We note, however, that this proposal does not mention the fires in the Canary Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that temperatures are getting higher and higher. Especially aggressive fires are proliferating and floods have increased, all as a result of climate change. The year 2019 is being a very unfortunate year, it is a record year in figures, because, in addition to regret the loss of human lives, as I have commented, the material damage is very high: about a billion euros, and what is to be quantified. And worst of all, this is on the rise, so we have to put in place mechanisms for adaptation and risk prevention as a result of all this. Therefore, a state action is urgently needed in which we are coordinated with all the autonomous communities, with a desire for dialogue and joint work. It is clear that Citizens will always be on the side of all those affected by circumstances over which they have no control, in short, and which are linked to climate change, such as those I have already mentioned. We are fully aware of the need to alleviate the damage caused, and that is why we agree on most of the points in this proposal. However, there are three fundamental issues that we believe should be addressed in this initiative. The first is that it does not mention the Canary Islands. If the objective is to alleviate the damage caused by the accidents caused in the summer period, it must include the fire in Gran Canaria, because more than 10 000 hectares were burned. Interestingly, Pedro Sánchez flew and, once the fire stabilized, became interested in the damage caused, but then he did not include it in this proposal that we are discussing right now. They can still rectify. We have also missed the fact that in its proposal the Socialist Party has devoted a few words of appreciation to the State Security Forces and Bodies. They risk their lives to protect everyone: they deserve it. Thirdly, we want to give an immediate response to what has happened these days, because we have had a new cold drop, there are so many affected areas and therefore we do not want to delay the implementation of special measures to help all those affected. They all deserve a quick, agile and effective response to the magnitude of events. We therefore propose an amendment to the first paragraph of the amendment to include all the claims that have taken place during the summer. This includes the latest events, the fire in Gran Canaria and, ultimately, all the areas affected and all those affected. We're not gonna waste a minute giving them the help they need, it's the most important thing of all. And I would like to end by sending out on behalf of my entire parliamentary group all our support, all our affection and the utmost solidarity with those affected by these events, and, of course, I would like to thank all the State Security Forces and Bodies for their dedication and dedication. They are heroes, and they are because they literally play life to save ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Arteaga. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casero Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude with which the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going down to present an initiative like this, on which, of course, it is difficult for someone to vote against, is somewhat surprising. No one is going to vote but for the Government to work and perform the functions it has to do to restore normalcy in those territories that have been clearly affected by a series of disasters. But that does not require you to accuse, that is why you do not need to say that other parliamentary groups with your amendments are trying to make political filibusterism, that is why you do not need to tell others that you do not have the solidarity or the feeling that you are permanently arrogant of feeling the same as those people who are having such a bad time right now and who have had it very difficult during the event of all these misfortunes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you do not have that kind of copyright of solidarity. All the Members of this House and all the colleagues from all the political groups who preceded me in the speech have announced to you, as I say to you, that they will vote in favour of this initiative. The only thing we have tried to do with our amendments is to improve and extend something that was not well done from our point of view. And when an initiative receives amendments from all the parliamentary groups, you will have to acknowledge that something was missing from it. And, of course, very important issues were missing, because this initiative has a negative part, from my point of view; being positive, it has a negative part, because who are we to define what disasters have been more or less harmful; for that there are services, which are the ones who have to decide. Who are we to exclude or include certain areas in these declarations of territories seriously affected by a civil protection emergency, if we may not know the reality of all the catastrophic situations that have occurred this summer? That is why the amendments that the rest of the political groups have made obviously, some from their territorial perspective, others from their knowledge perspective, the only thing they wanted, as I say, was to enrich this proposal. That said, my first words serve to show from the Popular Parliamentary Group our solidarity with the families of all those who have lost their lives in these disasters eight in this case and our solidarity with all those people who have had and have to suffer a situation of these characteristics in Almería, Granada, Malaga, Murcia, Alicante, Valencia, Albacete, Toledo, Cuenca, Guadalajara or Madrid, or in the fires in Tarragona, Toledo, Madrid and Cáceres, in the fire of more than 1500 hectares in the mountains of Gredos, in Pedro Bernardo, in the valley of Tiétar, Avila, or in the fire of more than 1500 hectares in Paterna del Campo, Huelva, in these past days, or in the fire of more than 10,000 hectares in Gran Canaria. We, the People's Group, being responsible for each of these misfortunes, have tried to propose an individual initiative, with which the rest of the groups have done their work: they have presented individual initiatives against each of the emergency situations that have occurred in our country, while you have waited at the end of the summer to make a joint initiative, in which a totum revolution is made and in which, of course, situations cannot be compared. You have only recorded a specific initiative for the fire in the Canary Islands, which has not yet been debated; but not one on the floods in Navarre, not one on the DANA that took place in Madrid, and not one on the latest weather in the Spanish Levant, because it has not given time with regard to this initiative. That is why I want to defend from here the work that is being done by my political group so that each of the citizens who have seen their way of life affected by a disaster can be supported by a parliamentary initiative that is being debated in the Commission or in plenary to know the causes, consequences and measures to be taken, because, of course, this is the most important thing. What is waiting for all the people who have been affected by these disasters, Mr Spokesman of the Socialist Group, is for the government to act. [[Applauds]] It seems to me that it causes blush, believe me, to bring in an initiative saying that we are going to urge the Government to declare a catastrophic zone in the July rains in Navarre, when the Government has not even begun the relevant procedures to do so. Speed, because, as my colleagues have said, they have not yet paid the royal decree they passed in January 2019, the measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u99	Mr. Homemaker, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u100	... that they took - I'm finishing, president - with respect to Mallorca. And that is no good, Mr. Socialist Party spokesman. In addition, we cannot allow a secretary of state for the environment to put on his Twitter things like this: The great infrastructure works - dams, flood channels or drought transfers - make no sense in a climate change scenario. If that is the prevention response that we give to citizens and if we do not pay in time and form, obviously these initiatives that we are going to support will be of little use. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u101	Thank you, Mr. Homer. At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, Mr Franco, I ask you, although you have already mentioned this in your speech, whether you accept any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u102	Thank you, Madam President. We accept the number 3, of Compromises, and of course that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Franco. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) on the recognition of the gratuity of the first cycle of child education. [[File number 162/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u104	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the recognition of the gratuitousness of the first cycle of Child Education. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. This plenary initially kept a minute of silence for the five victims of macho violence of yesterday, three murdered women and two orphaned children. But that minute of silence we know that it does not work, this House already knows it and the citizenry knows it, because every time something shrinks us, every time we wonder why we relate how we relate, why we live as we live, at the end of all the conversations it sounds the phrase that this changes with education; and then, we say school, we say from little ones, we say educate in values; and then, then, the waste, the waste when budgets arrive, when the ratios do not allow the teacher to work in conditions, when the public school is precarious, when we go to the local administrations - a greeting to Mr Montoro wherever he is, he knows that in this House are his General Budgets - and they have to be engineered in order to guarantee the service of the first cycle of Children's Education; the waste, even when the educational community clearly says to us in the streets: We do not get lost. That is what you have to listen to, that is what you have to know that here in this House we are for what we are and for who we are, that we owe ourselves to a citizen who defends public services and public education as a democratic principle. But let us speak with more property: the tracks are not such. The spoilage of the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act was not a waste, nor was its effect of leaving children's schools in limbo after cutbacks in municipalities. And so much so that as soon as the so-called Asturian law has had occasion it has sought the way to reverse in all the advances that state-of-the-art municipalities, such as that of Uviéu, have made in the field of education. The previous government of Uviéu gave stability and bet for an education 0 to 3, invested like no other city hall in the whole state, instituted the educational couple, a demand that the sector had for a long time. But all this nothing more arrived the PP and Citizens decided to jump it out of the air, first, cutting, and then, directly, when the workers complained, firing them; twenty-six child educators from 0 to 3 that the city council of Uviéu has fired - of which today attend a representation to this plenary -, because what is really wanted is the dismantling of a public service, precariousing the working conditions. What they claim is that only those who can make up for this can access it, perhaps with checks, with aids, as if it were not a right of all citizens, but the patching of which only eligible families are worthy. Both citizens and the PP have shown interest in this non-law proposal. If you really are interested, in addition to making amendments to this non-law proposal, I think it is much more effective that you talk to the leaders of your parties in Uviéu and already readmit these workers, just as you could also talk to those of those five municipalities in Andalucia and readmit the seventy-three workers who have also been fired at this beginning of the course. [[Applauds]] We come today to defend school 0 to 3 so that it is public, so that it is free and universal because it is a demand of a long time, because it has to be accessible to any family, not only to those who are allowed their income; because it has to reach everywhere, and that is possible with a public network of educational centers from 0 to 3; because we know that it is an effective way to combat gender inequality and also socio-economic inequality; because we are social beings from our first moment of life and because in educating there is a social and institutional responsibility, and not only the commendable work that families do. Professionals tell us that, as much as mothers and fathers bother to educate their children in autonomy, it is not something that can be done only in the family environment. The relational skills, the promotion of self-esteem, the possibilities to reverse gender stereotypes - and not just gender - in the early age are key in the antibullying strategy, to educate in nonviolence, to educate in diversity as a value, to educate against sexist violence. And for that, 0-3 education needs to have measures, guarantees for its faculty, training with a feminist perspective, consumable ratios, educational couples; a public education, non-precarious, quality and access to all citizens between 0 and 3 years old. Can we talk about universal education 0 to 3 years and that at the same time is public? It seems that there will be groups in this House who feel that this is not feasible. We argue that creating this public access network is viable for those who need it with the necessary cooperation of the autonomous communities. We have learned - and we have also read very carefully - the statements of Felipe González in 2011, saying that he himself regretted having opened the door to concerts. Is it viable? Yes, but we have to choose; as always, we have to choose, because, if we want, as Sánchez proposes, to continue to finance with public money 3000 million a year, private pension funds for those who can also afford it, we can also not access with justice and democracy education 0 to 3 in a public network for all people, live where they live, in cities and in villages; because, if we are concerned about emptied Spain, we will have to stop emptying it, we will have to offer the same services that are offered in cities. It is not I who think what or to me it seems to me that, it simply depends on choosing and then assuming it; and besides, telling it, telling what has been chosen and what has been assumed. I ask a friend about 0-3 education - we don't all have the same opinion; in fact, neither the first nor the second cycle of Early Childhood Education are mandatory - and what she tells me is that for many mothers, especially if they are single-maritime families, it is the only way to be compatible with working life, because, in addition to being a question of growth in community, of relationship, of learning, it is also a mechanism to deal with the wage gap. We could also do nothing, of course, but long we are given, and, with the strong coming of the climate crisis, how so that they no longer see it not only our grandchildren but perhaps this planet! We want to do something about the pay gap, and it is true that this is not the only one, but it is part of a plan to reorganize the care system, along with equal and non-transferable permits, with a determined bet to be at the forefront in attention to dependence, to be able to place lives in the center. Many feminist economists have long been making it clear that our current system is neither fair nor efficient. It serves a monster of ancient words, capitalism, who wants to eat every day and, in order to be, eat us. Ancient words that continue to take effect today. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. This morning I read in an interview to one of the most interesting writers of our time, Belén Gopegui, who thanked Carmen Martín Gaite for teaching him to dare even when he was afraid, to have courage even when he was afraid. We need references that help us overcome fears, to be in our diversity, in our freedom, not to deny who we are for fear of exclusion, for lack of respect for fear of the bad weather. Ladies and gentlemen, this GNP will be approved today or not, but in any case there is a risk that it will remain like tears in the rain. And, you see, it's not that you want to make me poetic, it's maybe that I'm using sarcasm before so much cynicism, because, if we don't have a legislature, this GNP won't have worked at all. This House houses a bench that has not learned to overcome the fear that Belén Gopegui spoke of or that directly does not assume what he is or that has been lying all this time with his slogans. I ask Sánchez's party if they see this too, if they agree on these things, if it's not fear or if they're directly denying who they are. And please don't answer me, because it's a rhetorical question. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. In defence of the amendments put forward by its groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which will also adopt a position at this time. I give the floor first to Mrs González Taño.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I had a beautiful, beautiful speech, but, in the end, we have arrived here and it turns out that today it does not go on these issues, it does not go on what comes to be presented, as we have just seen. We are in a Joint Congress, that means that half of the people we are here, women - also men, but especially women - we have been able to be mothers thanks to children's schools and our families, to public and also private children's schools, because, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, if you really wanted to move forward on children's education, you would have been able to accept the proposal and have supported a Government that would promote this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, if you really wanted to do this, you would have to have focused on this issue, and not on many others that we have heard in your speech. Those of us who come from so far away - I come from the farthest island, along with El Hierro, from this Congress, three hours by plane -, sincerely, we hope to hear about people's problems, and this is so, because we cannot be mothers and workers while they fire us because our children get sick, as long as we do not have access, as has been well said here, to children's schools. Of course, more is needed, but, ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime the Socialist Party Government owes three million euros to the Canary Islands for this, it owes all the financing money to fix public schools in the Canary Islands, the Education Infrastructure Plan: 42 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in an election campaign in a week's time we will talk about this again, we will tell people that we are going to do it again, but in the meantime, we will at least continue to claim what we have to do with ourselves, what is to do with the Canary Islands, that money we have to do with children's schools and education. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u108	Thank you, Mrs. González. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u109	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. We are going to support this initiative pending discussion of the amendments that we have tabled and that we believe that they do not alter the meaning to which you refer, but that I believe that they improve technically and are more sensitive to the territorial realities that must also have an answer. For us, and from our humble but decisive parliamentary group, education has always been a pillar to defend, it has been for students but also for teachers. That is why today, taking advantage of the fact that this is the first educational intervention of this short legislature, I would like to claim the work of the teachers of the El Palau Institute, who saw how some groups in this House accused them of using their profession, their place of authority in front of the students to indoctrinate them. The judge filed this case last July and it seemed interesting to me that my group's support for those teachers who saw how some of those groups took advantage of this rostrum to insult and defame them. I was telling you, Your Honor, that we are going to support this initiative, although we ask you for two things that seem to us to be most sensible and normal. First of all, if we are to amend Law 2/2016, as you ask, let us do so taking into account that the competences in the educational field in the Catalan case, and also in other cases, are the exclusive competence of the Generalitat, as set out in Article 131 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, so we consider it important that it is in this initiative that you present here today. Secondly, we believe that if there is to be a widening of the powers - and I will end immediately, Madam President - on the part of the Government of the Generalitat, in this case, the budget allocation received by this body must also be increased. We therefore, pending discussion of these amendments, have, as I have said, voted in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. Finally, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for this parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. What is the use of governments? Are all politicians the same? Is it like they rule one to rule another? I think the answer is easy. No, it's not the same thing that some govern others. In our case, in my country, the Valencian Government of the Botànic, we are, together with the Balearic Government, leading the increase in social spending per capita. We have risen by 6.5% compared to 2009, despite having infamous funding that has not been resolved either when the PP was governed or in the year and peak that the PSOE governs. Data. Education data from 0 to 3 years. In 2018, 36,000 Valencian boys and girls benefited from the children's bonus. We have made the 2 to 3 year stretch free in all municipal schools throughout Valencia; 248 schools and 485 classrooms. We have opened many classrooms in public schools free of charge for students from 2 to 3 years old and we partially fund private schools in the 0 to 1 year and 1 to 2 years old. In addition, we have put 6,000 more teachers; in addition, we have lowered the ratios; in addition, all Valencian children have free books. I insist: with infamous funding. Infamous. What are these measures for? Obviously because early schooling prevents school failure. And so that mothers and fathers can reconcile, so that they can have a vital project. When we talk about birth, when we talk about depopulation, in those cases we have to bet on this initiative. We will therefore vote in favour of it and we agree with the amendment tabled by the EPECat.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech in this Chamber, I will ask you to reflect. Tonight, when we finish the sitting and proceed to the votes, there will be four Members of this House who will not be able to press the button because they are in a prison in Lledoners, including the chairman of the parliamentary group I represent, Oriol Junqueras, and who are precisely in prison for letting the citizens of Catalonia express themselves through the vote. [[applause]] [[applause]] Do the reflection, I'll start. [[The lady]] This debate that the fellow Members of the United Nations are putting before us seems to us to be of the utmost importance, as it allows us to discuss a strategic issue that could place us at a new level of development with regard to the welfare state. I will focus our intervention on two axes: one of the pedagogical perspective and the other of the work reconciliation. On the pedagogical perspective, education from 0 to 3 years is an essential part of the training of citizens and is a central element in the lifelong learning process. International evidence, academic studies and theoretical models tell us that in positive impact on boys and girls in the development of various cognitive skills is significant and that this impact is magnified in the most vulnerable profiles. In other words, education between the ages of 0 and 3 is not only a key factor in the educational process but is an equal and equitable element in the socio-economic inequalities of boys and girls. Pupils who attend school later are those who previously leave the system and those who have the worst results. In short, increasing investment in early childhood education is the best policy against school failure, which is one of the main, if not the largest, scourges of our educational systems. It is perhaps the stage in which education systems would have to invest more and it is just the opposite. It would be time for the State to reflect on investment priorities and realize that if the Generalitat and the Department of Education were the competent administrations in the field of education, they had to be well financed. The municipalities have struggled to build a network of children's schools that are currently a pedagogical reference to the world of children's education. Collectively, we need to strengthen this work to help build a model that guarantees access to everyone. A model that respects the rhythms of learning, that addresses diversity and the different social realities, that serves to offer an adequate ratio and that also collaborates with families. Just as it is clear to us that a public secondary school must be guaranteed to all pupils, it must also be an objective to create the public children's school places that are necessary to ensure access to primary education. With regard to the perspective of conciliation, it is no coincidence that one of the demands of feminist groups is the universalization of child education. Today it remains a normal fact that mothers decide to apply for maternity leave and workday reductions while parents maintain their professional routines. The concept of work as proposed is a model incompatible with family reconciliation, especially when a family has children at preschool age. The result of this lack of investment also translates into greater precariousness in the labour market - mainly among women - greater partiality in working hours and greater unemployment in absolute terms. A restructuring of working hours is necessary. The universalization of education from 0 to 3 years for us is essential; but, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can not make us poetry, since we have come to see them because we did not agree with the initiative and because it invades the competences of the Generalitat. We have tabled two amendments to them and they tell us that they are going to reject them. Please think about it, they're putting themselves on the ground that we had already granted. We ask them to vote separately and it seems that they will also reject them. Do you guys know how to negotiate? Because it's clear that negotiation isn't going to be your strong suit. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to speak today in this rostrum to address an issue as fundamental as education. Because I am very clear that education is the fundamental tool for the future of our new generation and, above all, the key that will open the door to those children who are in vulnerable situations and deserve access to a dignified life. Citizens are a party committed to equality, a party committed to the equality of all families and to the right to education, an inclusive education that guarantees equal opportunities for all children regardless of the territory in which we are, regardless of whether we are in a village or in a city. It will also address - and we are very clear that this must be taken into account - the situation of children in vulnerable environments. We are committed and we have also demonstrated it. We have demonstrated this in Madrid because we already have 0 to 3 years of schooling approved and we contemplate the reality of all families. Because we also contemplate the reality of those families who choose their children to go to approved centres and who need help. What do we do, not help them because they don't go to a public center? We must offer help to all family diversity and that is what we do with our school check. With this, we agree not only to recognize that right but to guarantee it for all people. [[Applauds]] Likewise, we are a party that is committed to all families. Already in summer we presented an initiative, our proposal of family law. Regrettably, the Sánchez government parked it and paralyzed it because since it has only dealt with the laws introduced by the Socialist Party, the rest of the work does not seem to serve this House. [[Applauds]] A law that also recognizes the equality of our social diversity, recognizing the situation of single-parent families, large families and families in difficulty. A bill in which we already include free schooling from 0 to 3 years. We are convinced that this must be done on a pedagogical basis and on a conciliation basis, and we have demonstrated that. Our proposal for a law also includes measures of work conciliation. When we are talking about 0 to 3 years of schooling, we have to keep in mind the serious problem we have at birth. We have already included it in this legislation, our birth rate is one of the worst in Europe. We have very low rates and we really need to address a solution to our country. And that goes through measures and not just boasting with certain words, it seems to be very good when it comes to conciliation. Effective measures must be put in place. Schooling from 0 to 3 years is going to be one, but schooling for everyone, for all families. Let us stop cultivating when we are talking about concepts that address the fundamental right to equality. [[Applauds]] Because if we talk about conciliation we are all very clear that it is women, when we have children, who in the vast majority sacrifice our professional careers; it is women who, when we have children, ask for surpluses in the vast majority, who ask for work permits. That inequality and gaps must therefore be corrected, and it is very clear that we, as a party, are in favour of such legislation. Because, moreover, as I said, we have shown. We are betting on 0 to 3 years of schooling, and we are putting forward a series of amendments that they want to guarantee that and not just recognize it, which would be to make a toast to the sun, because sometimes it seems that in the field of human rights, equality rights we are making a toast to the sun all day long. We must not make a toast to the sun, we must put in place effective measures to guarantee the exercise of rights. We have tabled a number of amendments which seek to guarantee this right. We have tabled an amendment to Article 15 to say that schooling must be guaranteed in networks of public institutions, but that schooling must also be included in those centres authorized to respect the freedom of choice of parents' centre, to respect that this right is really guaranteed, because we must take into account the territorial reality, the reality of resources, and not just think about what we will do and what we will do but seek effective solutions. That is why this concept needs to be broadened. [[Applauds]] Let us talk about equal opportunities, the equal opportunities that all children have in this enjoyment; in this enjoyment for their pedagogical journey, as we have been saying, for their learning, to avoid school failure, because the rates are alarming and we have been saying it for many years, although it has been ignored. We therefore believe that the measures which we have tabled and which seek to achieve equal opportunities must be taken into account. How can we guarantee that? Ensuring that there is an aid system with the municipalities and the autonomous communities. Why is an aid scheme not accepted? How do we implement this measure if we do not take into account the territorial reality, the reality of people who have less economic resources and more difficulties in accessing services or even those who live in villages? What we've proposed is that too...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u116	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u117	Yes, Madam President. We have proposed that there should be an education for all children, that there should be equal opportunities, and that is why our amendments are aimed at this effectiveness. On the side of conciliation as well. See how easy it is to reconcile with the measure we have proposed: that, together with the choice of the centre near the home, the choice of the workplace can also be made. Wouldn't it be much easier for many parents to take the boys and girls to the centre close to the job? Therefore, what I find incomprehensible is that our amendments are not accepted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jiménez. Mrs Moneo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Fernández Castañón, that is to say, this debate was about this. I thought we were coming here to discuss a proposal on the progressive extension of the gratuity of the first cycle of child education, taking into account not only the importance and significance of such a measure, but also the very demand that society is demanding of us all on this issue. But look, since it was something else, I'm going to answer you and I'm going to tell you that you haven't told the truth. You know that these workers - some of them were in the rostrum - were not renewed the contract to which you referred in Oviedo City Hall because there was a report from the municipal attorney - which, by the way, was approved while you were government - which said that if you were hired you would incur fraud of law. That is the reality, Mrs. Fernández Castañón, and do you know what you have done, who have been in a tripartite with these workers in Oviedo City Hall for four years? Nothing. Have you regularized your situation? No, no, Have they built or promoted any children's schools? None. That is why I ask you to stick to the issue and not bring us here an act of political propaganda, which is what you have come up to this rostrum. [[Applauds.- Mrs Fernández Castañón utters words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as this proposal is important to us, which has certainly been discussed here in 2017, I must say - I do not know if you have informed her in your group - that there are issues on which you and we agree. We agree that it is necessary to make progress in this free of charge from 0 to 3 years on two fundamental issues: firstly, it is necessary for children, those children who belong to the most disadvantaged environments in which they weigh social, cultural, which have not had or have the opportunities of others, to find equality of opportunity in the education system; secondly, because, in addition to that equality of opportunity, those children must have the opportunity to advance in the education system with the same guarantees as the rest of the students have. Our education system continues to have a problem, Mrs Fernández Castañón, which is early educational abandonment, which, although it has fallen significantly in recent years to 17% compared to 26.3% inherited by the People's Party government, still lacks the requirement that the European Union is asking us to achieve 15% by 2020. That objective cannot be achieved by partial measures, by partisan measures, but by a careful, objective and contrasting analysis, which is what we do in an amendment which, I am afraid, you will not consider. And this is where early schooling plays a key role. Therefore, any decision we make on this issue, apart from the necessary budgetary commitment, must bear in mind that progress in the progressive gratuitousness of the first cycle of child education deepens the greater fairness of the system, and equity remains one of the great strengths of the Spanish educational system. We are therefore talking about equity, we are also talking about conciliation and we are talking about co-responsibility. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there is an objective fact: the OECD, in the last report of 2018, Panorama for Education, made it very clear that the availability of affordable early childhood education and care services play a key role in increasing the female employment rate observed in most countries. Equity, freedom for families, to organize their personal, family and work lives on an equal footing. And this is where you and we have different approaches - you, us and the Socialist Party - because you are committed to ensuring that only public education guarantees that equality of opportunity. I invite you to read the Constitution, to read the successive rulings of the Constitutional Court that will tell you that the right to education is guaranteed through the public network, through the private, concerted network and through aid that we can give to families, because there is no uniformity and because we need the guarantee of another right, which is freedom of education, which you forget in each and every one of your proposals. I'm finishing up, Madam President. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations-We can, we are not going to vote against them, we are not going to give them that satisfaction because we really agree on the most important thing: that we need to move forward on this issue. We are going to abstain and we are going to ask them, first, to mature, to recognize the constitutional framework in which we move; secondly, not to undermine constitutional principles, to be sensible, and when they have government responsibilities, to fulfil what they promise and, above all, not to impose on all Spanish families a monolithic, monolithic system, based on the beginning of the last century and which violates a fundamental principle called freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo. Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Fernández Castañón, I will answer you: of course what we want is in evidence, these are the 370 measures that we have put before you and in which we hope to count on your agreement to be able to give stability to Spain, and among them is children's education from 0 to 3 years. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] No one can be more convinced than the Socialist Party and that the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the need to promote children's education from 0 to 3 years; in fact you have shown this in your background. It was with Zapatero, with the Programme Educa 3, when the most advanced in the extension of 0 to 3 years, but it has also been with socialist laws with which it has been given a great impulse. We must remember how almost one hundred per cent of the schooling of children between the ages of 3 and 6 was achieved with LOE or how with the Logse the 0-3 boost was already started and for the first time it was recognized that 0-3 was an educational cycle; with a dual objective: on the one hand, to provide quality education for the children of this country, and on the other, to try to reconcile family and professional life. In other words, no one has as much interest as the Socialist Party in securing, defending and stabilizing cycle 0 to 3 so that, as you propose and we agree, the extension of free and fundamentally also of public places is achieved. There have been many debates that have been held here in Congress and in other autonomous parliaments in which we have insisted, in a clear and very serious way, on this educational concept, and I say that we have insisted because not all political groups have had the same concept that 0-3 should be educational and not merely assistance, in fact you do not even have it clear because, as I know, it has even come to pose this segregation, to take it out of education and to pose it elsewhere, in councils, as in Galicia, where it is still part of Social Rights; but you also wanted to pose it for the Vice-President of the Government. Therefore, you must not be so clear about that educational concept, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Not everyone is so clear that children's education is educational, because he was told that in Galicia it remains within the Council of Social Rights, but it is clear that when the People's Party ruled, we have always encountered setbacks in the progress of children's education and when the Socialist Party ruled, progress has always been made. Proof of this is that in the autonomous governments that we have, progress has been made in a very significant way in the schooling of 2 to 3 years, as it is already included in the centers of children's and primary education, as is the case of Cantabria, as it is in the Valencian Community, mentioned above, and will also be extended to Extremadura and Aragon specifically. It has also been the Socialist Party - and it must be made very clear - that it has always advocated the alleviation of these differences and socio-educational disadvantages with support for families. We have also been the socialists who, in times of economic crisis, have continued to fund municipal schools, which, by the way, the People's Party has left unfunded in many autonomous communities, such as Castile and León. [[Applauds]] It is also in Castile and León that we have seen that, thanks to these popular policies, there is no progress in the rate of schooling. By the way, for Citizens, since it seems that now they also defend the model of education from 0 to 3, it must be remembered that according to the Councillor of Education of Citizens to the Government in Andalusia the first thing he did was to announce that he was going to raise the tuition price for boys and girls from 0 to 3 years old. [[Applauds]] So I'd say less words and more facts and bet on child education for all. [[The lady]] Look, if there is no doubt about the benefits of education from 0 to 3, we are certainly very much in favour of regulating it by regulation because there are a number of outstanding issues. But you too have in your hand, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations. We can make this a reality because, as you rightly put in the background, the law must be amended to make this a reality. This and other kinds of emergencies that many Spanish children and young people need to no longer have to suffer from Lomce, because if they do not facilitate an investiture with their vote, and assume the election results at once, it will give the chance that millions of children will have to continue working in educational institutions with an absolutely retrograde law that is Lomce, and it would take us another year to get it repealed. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, I ask you to be consistent as well and to support our amendment because all the issues you raise need collaboration and consensus with the territory, with the autonomous communities, and they need co-financing in which autonomous communities and also the State must enter. But I must remind you that all this has to be done progressively and wisely, so I ask you to reconsider and accept the amendment that we are proposing to you, which seeks to move forward in the free use of public places. And yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, public places because they are the true guarantors of the right to education and of equal opportunities throughout the Spanish territory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u122	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u123	I'm done, President. All I have to say is that we are going to support the initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, but, please, a little more rigour in the initiatives that they present and, of course, bear in mind that they are autonomous powers and that they must be done in a consensual way and worked on both the regulation and, logically, on budgetary viability. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u125	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs Fernández Castañón, good afternoon to you and the rest of the comrades who have spoken today. It seems to me that there are bad times for calm, calm and rigorous debates, because if we stick to the different speeches that we have been listening to throughout the debate and to what sense of vote they have expressed, there is certainly a lack of coherence. With regard to the initiative presented to us, we do not like it because the approach taken is undoubtedly an approach of competition interference. Mrs Martínez Seijo told you: they are autonomous competences, and you are asking that it be regulated from here. For us, it is a clear interference in our area of competence and we reject the approaches that are taken in that direction. You have powers and responsibilities of government in autonomous communities as citizens as well as other formations. If you do not want to manage them and if you think it is better from here, you will see what you do, but we believe that our competences must be preserved and respected and that is what we demand. I would like to say that, in relation to children's schools, from our parliamentary group, from the Basque Parliamentary Group, from the Basque Nationalist Party and from the various areas in which we are governing, we do believe that it is a very effective instrument; we believe that it is a very effective instrument to respond to two of the great challenges we are facing as a country in Basque: the demographic challenge and the challenge of education. We believe that children's schools are crucial in order to make progress in the struggle in both areas. On the demographic front, on the one hand, because it is going to promote reconciliation, it is an aid for work and family reconciliation; on the other hand, because it will also help to increase birth rates, which in our case, in Euskadi, as in many other places, are a serious problem. With regard to the challenge of education, children's schools were an absolutely effective tool to fight in that direction. There are important studies at different levels, from the OECD, among others, that say that training in the first stages, in children's school, is decisive for the results that students will achieve in the future. We therefore believe that we should continue to work in that direction. I will give you some data on what we are doing in Euskadi, because here we have given data and we have talked about experiences from other places. I will tell you that in 2003 we started with children's schools in Euskadi and we had 27; today we have 236. In the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, there are 251 municipalities and 178 have children's schools. The reality may be different between Mrs Giménez and you, Mrs Fernández, who spoke of emptied Spain, of rural environments. In our case, this small territorial imbalance that we can have between demand and supply occurs mainly in the centers of the cities, because in the other areas the supply is surpassing even the demand. Schooling rates are very important and in the time I have I will try to give them to you. In Euskadi, almost 99% of the three-year-old population is in school; 92.9% of the two-year-old children are in school; 17.5% of the under-year-old population is in school at a school and almost 50% of the two-year-old population is in school as well. We have an average school enrolment of between 0 and 3 years, which exceeds 50%, standing above even Nordic countries such as Sweden and Iceland and very close to Norway. What worries us - and our struggle is going to go that way - is the great socio-economic bias in order to be able to access these children's schools. Therefore, in Euskadi, since 1 January 2019, since this year, all families with incomes of less than €18,000 have free access to children's schools. No one will have to pay the pre-matricule that was previously required, and all families who have a second child and succeeding families will also have free enrollment. They are examples of what we consider to be good practices and the way forward to bridge this socio-economic gap and to ensure that we effectively achieve a cohesive society, with equal opportunities for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u127	As the Grimm brothers recounted in their famous 19th century tale, Hansel and Gretel were two children who were lost in the forest and what they found was a huge chocolate house. That chocolate house was a trap and it's the trap that is presented to us today by the Parliamentary Group of Podemos. He pretends to be a false concern for children and women, when in reality what he claims is what he has already shown us since his first intervention on this GNP: the indoctrination of children. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, get your hands off our children, get your hands off not only our children, because we must remember that what is being debated here today is the first cycle of child education, from 0 to 3 years, and you advocate educating our babies in a gender perspective, with all those elements of your neo-Marxist policy that you want to implement in our society. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Hala!]] [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Hala!]] But you do not hide your intentions; you do not hide them, ladies and gentlemen. We saw it when a representative of his in the Madrid Assembly stated that he wanted to protect his parents' children. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want you to protect your parents' children; and less so for babies, because babies need their parents, what they need is their parents' freedom to choose how to raise them, as enshrined in Article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u129	Not only that, but, disguised as ultrafeminism, they show a huge contempt for women; a huge contempt and a huge misunderstanding of what women are and represent. [[Applauds]] They consider, as they say in their explanatory statement, that it is an academic waste that women have on average more academic qualifications and, however, access to less qualified employment. What, that women who choose a reduced day or raise their babies at home are fools? Don't you say you have many more degrees? [[Rumors]] Let women choose what they want to do. [[Applauds]] You regard women - and they constantly demonstrate this - as a mere means of production. Women are for you an element of the productive chain and nothing more. They will never consider that there are women and families who want to choose a different education and, fundamentally, an education outside their monopoly on women. Because you are very anti-capitalist, but you have created a huge monopoly on what is and represents the woman and the right has bought it from her. [[Applauds]] That is what happens in this House constantly, that the left puts the ideas and the right buys them. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: The right is you]] In the VOX Parliamentary Group we are going to abstain from this hysteria, because we are not against funding the education of the first cycle of children's education, but we want it to be made free. [[rumors]] We want it to be done with a check that would keep as families want and knowing that to really address this problem what is needed is an expansion of maternal casualties and a reduction in taxes on children's products. Gentlemen, you can ignore us and laugh at us; you're gonna have a great time with us. You can escort us out and send us there to that balcony, but what you do not contemplate is that Spain lives - yes, the one that still has blood in its veins - we need a balcony to deploy a flag. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u130	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. Mrs Fernández Castañón, in order for you to let us know if you accept any of the amendments, I give you the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u131	Madam President, we want the non-law proposal to be discussed in its terms, but we also wanted to refer to Article 71.3 with regard to the dignity of our parliamentary group. If there is a chance, I would like to ask specifically for a statement from the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group to be withdrawn. If the president's okay with it, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u132	Please indicate the expression.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u133	The expression has to do with the fact that the report - which it does not sentence - referred to by the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group regarding the situation of women educational workers from 0 to 3 of the City of Uvíeu has nothing to do with the employment situation, but with the timetables. [[Rumors]] It is the year 2014 and is the government of the People's Party. What is a fraud is firing women workers without notice and violating their rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u134	Mrs Fernández, you did not mention the specific reference made by the popular spokesman. I therefore understand that you are not asking for the withdrawal of any expression from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Moneo Diez asks for the floor.]] Mrs Moneo, there has been no mention of any expression or any specific request. [[The lady]] It is not a time for debate, it is a time for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u135	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the need to declare the state of climate emergency in Spain in the face of the serious impacts that climate change is having in our country and with the aim of urgently arbitrating mitigation and adaptation measures in the face of the climate and ecological crisis in which we are immersed. For the author group of the initiative, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u136	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to make an important decision, and that is not what you are thinking. It is the declaration that Spain is in a state of climate emergency. If we make this decision, surely many people who are listening to us out there, people worried about what is going on in their environment, environmental organizations, many young people who are mobilizing in the face of the global climate alert in which we are immersed, will feel recognized and recognized when they see that this Congress of Deputies recognizes that Spain is in a state of climate emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, our house is on fire and we cannot hide our heads in front of it. Last week, in this same Chamber, we had an interpellation with the Minister of Ecological Transition and discussed various aspects of climate change and energy policy. Only during these days, in the days that have passed since that debate, have we witnessed the serious floods that have devastated the Levant and that, by the way, have also been the subject of a previous debate in this very House. Unfortunately, this is the new normality: more and more facts like this are going to happen in our territory; more and more we are going to witness extreme weather phenomena that will alter people's lives, that will destroy our environment and that will cost us human lives. I wanted to recall, because of the limited time we have, only some data based on scientific studies of what is happening in our country. I'm not going to talk about the Arctic, I'm not going to talk about Antarctica, I'm going to talk about what's going on in Spain. And to those groups that do not recognize the gravity of climate change, even those who say in the media that climate change is a milonga, I challenge them to go up to this stage and discuss with scientific studies the points that I will mention. These are just some of the many data that are scientifically proven; scientific consensus is overwhelming. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a reality, a serious reality and a reality that is affecting us. Firstly, the increase in temperatures. The Sustainability Observatory of Spain warns that in the last thirty years temperatures in our cities have increased by an average of 1.6 °C; that is, temperatures have risen in our cities more than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns us that it is entering a dangerous climate change. And if we go back thirty years, the data is even more shocking. Summers are longer. When many of you and I were children, the summers lasted five weeks less than they do now; that is, now the summer season, and this is what the Spanish Meteorology Agency says, is five weeks longer than it was. This has important impacts on many issues, ranging from the season of forest fires to the behavior of animal species - many of them are not able to adapt - as well as, by the way, to the production of our fields, because what we are talking about also has impacts on agricultural production. Semiarid climates are spreading in our country. There is more and more extension of our bull skin, of our Iberian peninsula, which has semi-arid climate. Again, citing the Spanish Meteorology Agency, it can be estimated that more than 30,000 square kilometres have grown in recent years, around 6% of the area of Spain, being the most affected areas Castilla-La Mancha, the Ebro Valley or the southeast peninsula. The great forest fires - already referred to the fire of the Canary Islands - are on the increase; they are those that affect more than 500 hectares; they are the fires that are given in extreme conditions, in the famous rule 30-30-30, that can not stop neither the best brigades, nor the UME; they are fires impossible to stop because of the extreme conditions of the environment, and they are increasingly occurring in our country. Again I have to say: the Canary Islands has not been an exception, it is the new normality, and it is going to be repeated more and more often. As for the availability of water, many times in this House there has been talk about water policies, about the National Water Pact, and very little attention has been paid to reducing the resource due to increased temperatures. Estimates of hydrographic confederations say that in recent years the flows of our rivers have been reduced by 15%, not because it rains less, but because the increase in temperatures makes evaporation higher. It is another fact that we must bear in mind, that it must alarm us and that it must show us to what extent we are in a state of climate emergency. As for the warming of the oceans, our seas, our oceans, are warming up. In particular, the Mediterranean Sea has increased its temperature by 0.34° per decade since the 1980s, and this also has an impact on sea level rise, which adds to the impact of thawing in areas such as Greenland. That is, our seas are also warming up; this has ecological impacts on the species living in it and is allowing the entry into our ecosystems of invasive alien species that, in many cases, have devastating impacts. Finally, I could go on, but again I say, that they come up here and that they clash with scientific studies each of the data we have given; and if they are not able to do so, they vote in favour of the climate emergency declaration, because Spain is in a climate emergency situation. [[Applauds]] It is necessary to take political action in every sense: energy, mobility, agriculture, building..., in all sectors, and that must come. But today, if Congress supports this declaration of climate emergency, we will be giving ourselves a framework so that, from now on, whatever the colour of the government that governs us, those policies always take this obligation into consideration. I end with a phrase from Greta Zamber that says: If your house were on fire, you would not say that you have the situation under control and you would leave the living conditions of the future of all species in the hands of inventions that still have to be invented; you would not waste time arguing about taxes or Brexit; you would leave your differences aside and you would start cooperating. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u137	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, and this time Mr Miquel i Valenti will also fix a position, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u138	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. We agree, Your Honor, on virtually the whole of the initiative that you have now defended in this rostrum. In fact, some have needed a 15-year-old girl to arrive to teach them a lesson in commitment to the fight against climate change. It is not the case either of my parliamentary group or of other groups that from this or other Chambers, such as the Parliament of Catalonia, we have been defending the fight against climate change as a priority on the country's political agendas. In 2016, the Parliament of Catalonia, with the vote of the Socialist Party, Podemos and so many other groups in the House, adopted a law that complemented certain laws that had been reorganized, so that in a single law different elements were incorporated that allowed the fight against climate change to be addressed in a solid, rigorous way and with very concrete proposals. But in this case - as in so many others - we find that when on one side of the balance is the unity of Spain or the Spanish political recentralisation, it doesn't matter what we put on the other side. If on the other side we put the right to self-determination, the unity of Spain will always weigh more. If we put energy poverty, the unity of Spain will always weigh more. If we put gender equality, the unity of Spain will always weigh more. And if we put the law on combating climate change, in this case too, the unity of Spain weighed more than the fight against climate change. That is why the Constitutional Court annulled key articles of that law, and that is why we welcome today's debate in this House on this initiative, which we will certainly support. What we do ask you, Your Honor, as other groups with responsibilities in parliaments and autonomous governments have also done, is that we review the date. It is not that we do not want the country to be decarbonized in the year 2040, but that we see it absolutely impossible to have it by the year 2040. That is why, Your Honor, we propose to review this date and to get to work tomorrow so that in 2050 we will have the country decarbonized. In this sense, I was led by those words of Mr Molins quoting Rafael Guerra when he saw the proposal of 2040, and it is that what cannot be, cannot be, and is also impossible. But if we get to work right away, Your Honor, we're going to have the country decarbonized in 2050.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u139	Mr. Miquel.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u140	That is a possibility, that is a proposal that can undoubtedly be a reality in a few years.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u141	Mr. Miquel, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u142	Yeah, I'm finishing up. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support your initiative and we look forward to a response to our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u143	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u144	I am going to do what will probably be my last intervention here to talk about a motion that we are of course going to adopt; a motion that was adopted last Friday - just a week ago - by the Valencian Government, which thus assumes its responsibility to deal with this ecological, economic and social crisis that is causing climate change on our land and which is also the first axis of the Botanical Government. Declaring a state of emergency doesn't just mean coming here to make a speech, it doesn't just mean taking the picture; it involves responsibilities, especially when you're in government. Therefore, one cannot pretend to defend the climate emergency and not invest in improving more sustainable mobility alternatives, such as the nearby railway, that railway really is an alternative to the car for all those who live outside the urban centers. We cannot defend the climate emergency and destroy the garden that surrounds the cities, in our case the Valencian garden, or abuse farmers with absolutely harmful treaties. You can't defend the climate emergency and see with good eyes barbarities like that of the Mediterranean Port in the city of Paterna. One cannot pretend to defend the climate emergency and allow the levels of pollution to increase giving wide sleeve to a new project, for example that of the extension of the Port of Valencia, without enough information, without the environmental impacts. We cannot defend the climate emergency and not commit ourselves fully to renewables and allow the electric or energy oligopoly to continue to enrich itself with everyone. I'm done. They're not worth lukewarm solutions, they're not worth just the green market. The fight against climate change must be a priority, especially for those who have the responsibility to make political decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u145	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u146	Get out of the way. We will vote in favour of the climate emergency declaration in line with what Euskal Herria Bildu is proposing also in the towns and cities of Euskal Herria, that same climate emergency declaration. We do so because it is clear that the sustainability of the planet is at risk, if it is not already seriously threatened, and because although every time, fortunately, there are fewer negatists - probably, not even Rajoy's cousin is a negatist of climate change - there are still dangerous negatists such as Trump or Bolsonaro and some more anecdotes and bizarre ones, such as the extreme right of Spain. But, as I say, despite the fact that the scientific community cares little or nothing about them, the evidence is there, and that evidence puts us in a position to make drastic, urgent and absolutely efficient decisions; measures that would have to talk about CO2 emissions, decarbonisation, waste management, reduction of the use of plastics and polymers, or the commitment to clean and renewable energies. There is, therefore, much to be done and little time left and it would be good for us to start doing these things, whether there are transitional governments or governments in office that have not worked very well, because if not, what will be at our disposal will have to be taken seriously measures that seem like anecdotes or jokes of little or doubtful humor, such as the Bill Gates Foundation's proposal to bomb the atmosphere with sulphur and so cool the planet. But, as I was saying, and I'm done... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence, we cannot listen to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u148	As I said - and I finish already - the climate crisis is only the consequence of an economic system, the capitalist, which is based on unbridled consumerism and unlimited production that exceeds the finite limits of the planet and that prevents nature from reproducing itself with the necessity or speed with which we demand it to expand. In any case, and to conclude, if this is so, if the planet is finite, and of that we will surely have no doubt; if the planet's resources are finite, and we will have no doubt; if the system behind climate change is the capitalist, probably the best thing we could do is rethink the economy to change the system.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u150	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. This group certainly agrees with the need to declare a state of climate emergency and, moreover, we understand that it is a declaration that should be based on agreement between all political parties. I also have to say that we have tabled an amendment which simply wants to refer to a small nuance, which is the one relating to the year in which it is established. The fight against climate change is a global challenge for us all, especially the closest entities, who are better aware of the demands and needs of citizens. In this regard, international bodies have underlined the commitment of the regions, who say that it is essential to address the climate crisis. In this context, the Basque Government, in July, made the declaration of climate emergency for a carbon neutral Euskadi as a country's objective and with urgent and concrete actions in its public policies, allocating not only material and human resources but also economic resources for this purpose. Although there is no international consensus on what climate emergency is, there is a consensus on the existence of climate change. The United Nations Framework Convention has defined it as a climate change attributed directly or indirectly to human activity that alters the composition of the global atmosphere and adds to the natural variability of the climate observed over comparable periods of time. A phenomenon, that of climate change, with relevant environmental, social and economic consequences that can lead us to crises and catastrophes such as those we have experienced in recent days. It is therefore essential to recognize the gravity of the situation and to focus on the climate emergency in order to recognize the problem and to make real and binding political commitments for public policies to respond to the problem through concrete actions. [[The lady]] This group also considers that the emergency declaration should serve to accept the reality of the climate crisis and therefore recognize the need to act on environmental issues, also to recognize the conclusions of the scientific community in relation to climate change, to position the climate crisis at the centre of the political and social debate, to propose objectives and actions to mitigate the effects of global warming, to also raise awareness among the different sectors of society, to act on environmental issues and to transform the development model and, therefore, on the productive fabric, on mobility and on territorial planning. In addition, this group considers it necessary to join the political, social and academic institutions of the world with the formal declaration of climate emergency, in order to achieve a carbon neutral territory as soon as a just transition allows, and in any case no later than 2050, as well as to achieve a more resilient territory and society in the face of climate emergency. And this is the shade we wanted to highlight with our amendment. We propose as a deadline to achieve a neutral territory by 2050, as has been endorsed by most of the Member States of Europe. We are talking about achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, which does not mean that no efforts will be made in the previous period. The fact that this limit, beyond the year 2040 that the motion contains, does not mean delaying the objective but is aware that in order to achieve it we need to know, on the one hand, the potentialities of the territory in generating renewable energies and also the potentialities of reduction and energy efficiency of each of the consumer sectors. All this is also in keeping with the current context, technology and knowledge, and it is therefore preferable for us to set the deadline of 2050, in line with that European will. What is at issue is to be foresight in the light of the reality and potential of the territory and technology, as I have said. It is necessary to be bold, yes; and to try to achieve the goal by 2050, but it is not necessary to rush because it is about making a fair transition, as this will lead to greater growth and development, will protect nature, will reduce inequalities and will certainly create, in our view, numerous opportunities. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Hervías Chirosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u152	Thank you, President. The land belongs to no one but the wind. This phrase is obviously not from any scientist, philosopher or thinker, it is from José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, former president of the government, at the Copenhagen Climate Summit in December 2009. A phrase that represents the clear example of the inefficient policies to combat climate change that the Socialist Party has made all this time. [[Applauds]] A move by the Socialist Party, which has been saying for more than a year that they were going to push forward a law of climate change, that it was going to be a reality, and we see that no, that they are more concerned with walking in airplanes and helicopters than with taking real measures to alleviate the issue and the problem of climate change. [[Rumors]] And that is a fact, just as it is a fact that global warming is a reality. In this House we have the VOX group, which seems to be that they do not believe in climate change, which they believe climate change is not a reality in Spain. Perhaps with this graph you will understand that the planet is warming up and that climate change is therefore a reality. [[shows a graph]] As you will notice, the line is ascending and you can see how it is actually increasing the temperature on the planet. But it is not only on a global level, in Spain we are noticing it. The temperature on the planet has increased more than 1°, but in Spain we also suffer these consequences: summers five weeks longer, heat waves prolonged, harder and with increases in temperature and record absolute maximum temperature also recorded - increasing, by the way, mortality, reaching more than 400 victims killed by heat strokes -. The water temperature of the Mediterranean Sea is also heated in Spain, 0.34 oC per decade and also increases its level, rising 3.4 millimeters each year. Tropical nights, i.e., minimum temperatures above the 20th, are also a reality; up to eighty tropical nights have been recorded in cities in Spain; and something also very worrying, in Spain the semiarid climate is increasing. In areas of the southeast peninsula, the Ebro Valley, Castile-La Mancha increases this semi-arid climate with everything it represents. We have also seen extreme weather phenomena in recent weeks, extreme weather phenomena that have led to the loss of human lives and extensive destruction. From here, we want to transfer our solidarity and support to the families and friends of the victims and also to thank the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses and all emergency services, which have been left behind these days to avoid major evils. [[Applauds]] As we said, climate change is a reality and we have to adapt to it. There is, we can't turn our backs on him. For this reason, in Citizens we have tabled an amendment to promote, encourage, invest in R & D & i in order to develop technologies, measures to alleviate climate change and, above all, to adapt to the current reality; and, on the other hand, to seek a broad political consensus. Climate change does not understand borders, although some are committed to continuing to establish borders in our country and also say that the blame for climate change lies with Madrid. They are so obsessed with it that Madrid always blames everything. A broad consensus must be sought, it has no borders and its consequences neither. For this reason, in Citizens we are going to work hard, side by side, we are going to leave the skin to provide solutions, to provide real measures to get Spain to lead this fight against climate change and finally, renewable energies to win the battle for other interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Hervías. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u154	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be for the victims and the families, to remind all those who have been harmed and affected by the terrible torrential rains we have been living in for the past week. As we have already said in another proposal, the People's Party is going to do everything in its power to require the Socialist Party Government to take measures to mitigate material damage as soon as possible and also measures in anticipation to prevent future damage. As the motion before us today has to do with this too, I will start by saying, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt either in this parliamentary group that Spain is a country that is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change due, fundamentally or among other things, to our geographical position. A report by the IPCC, which described the risks of water pressure in southern Europe, said that we would have irregular rainfall and very destructive torrential episodes that would increase the risk of flooding and that would also produce and aggravate the danger of desertification due to the deterioration of soil quality. Moreover, we are a country that has two archipelagos and many kilometers of coastline and we are very aware of the drastic consequences that sea level rise can have on all of them. These I have just described to you are physical consequences, consequences arising from the climate change we feel, which we notice, but to these we would have to add, to be serious, the economic consequences that these physical damage have; consequences in productive sectors: for agriculture, livestock and livestock; for tourism; for the coal industry in Asturias; for the steel industry in Galicia or for the car industry. In addition, there are social consequences arising from the previous two and social consequences for employment, for equal opportunities and for the immediate future of the next generations. It is therefore a question of making decisions and not so much of declarations for Spain to have planning and to achieve a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because just a year ago, on 8 October last year, I defended in this very rostrum a proposal for a law from my political group, which we had prepared and presented while we were in government, which you, Citizens' Lords, Podemos and other groups, did not support, and did not support, with the excuse that it was unambitious. That project urged real political action with the most important instrument that we have in this House: a climate change law that provides a serious and reliable regulatory framework to address this serious problem. That text was rejected, and you know why? Not because it was unambitious; no, they rejected it only and exclusively because it had been presented by the People's Party, because it was not even the text itself; it was the consideration. In fact, when Minister Ribera presented that confidential draft that we knew from the press, we saw that suspiciously there were great coincidences with our text that called into question that resounding 'no' that had been given to us. In any case, what I do want to denounce here - and I hope and trust that it will be once and for all - is the partisan use that is made of key issues not for this legislature - which seems to be very short - not even for the next four years, but for the future of the next generations. Why am I saying this? Because, do you know what happened, Mr. López de Uralde? That a year after that, today we have no law of climate change and energy transition in Spain. To this day we still have no law. That is why I am surprised that they continue with this urgency of continuing to make statements without taking decisions. I believe that what we have to do is get to work on the measures that our country has to take with the circumstances that Spain has, with the economic circumstances, with the employment circumstances, with the social circumstances, with the environmental ones, with the concrete ones so that we can tackle together - because if we do this separately, it will be much more difficult - and in a serious way this fight against climate change. When I insist that it be serious I mean that they are economically solvent measures, because they have to be sustainable over time, and for that we need to have a consensus. I believe that we cannot continue to make this issue of climate change a demagogic use and abuse of good and bad, of believers and non-believers. I would like to make it clear that the People's Party does not only want a declaration without intent, but also wants a work plan; we want a table at which all parties are present and where we agree on priority measures to address climate change. We want declarations but with solutions; we want to introduce that amendment that I would love to be accepted so that we could have the consensus that fundamental issues like this need.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u155	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u156	I ended up literally. What I think we need to do, gentlemen, is to move forward on prudent, reasonable and economically viable measures; on realistic measures that mitigate the social, economic and employment consequences in this transition to climate neutrality; consequences that I have described in the first part. What I do not think is prudent or reasonable is that, under the pretext of climate change, we launch respective electoral campaigns in a demagogic and reckless way. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u158	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come today to discuss the motion following the urgent inquiry by the United Nations Group We can on 11 September which called on the Government to declare the state of climate emergency in Spain, in order to compromise all future government policies to deal with this emergency. In the debate on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government on 25 July, the President-in-Office already raised the attention to the climate emergency as his Government's third major challenge. A challenge to which Spain's position must be - I quote textually - to lead the struggle, adaptation and mitigation of climate change, turning this great challenge into what can really be and is, a great opportunity for prosperity and secure progress for the whole of Spanish citizenship. The document Open Proposal for a Common Progressive Programme of the PSOE, which was made public on 3rd of this month, also commits itself to promoting for adoption in Congress a declaration of climate emergency in our country and Minister Ribera, during the debate last week, also declared that it is essential to declare a state of emergency that includes a rapid and urgent programme of action that will cross-cuttingly permeate all policies and trusts to bring this declaration of climate emergency to the first meeting of the Council of Ministers, once it is in full use of its functions. This statement is particularly timely today because, the day after this debate in Parliament, the European Union announced the results of the special Eurobarometer on climate change that it had carried out, giving clearly significant results for our country. Spain becomes one of the European Union countries most aware of the fight against the environmental crisis, ten points more than the average in the rest of Europe: nine out of ten respondents in Spain see climate change as a very serious problem, 89 %, an increase of three percentage points since 2017, and significantly above the Union average, which is 79 %. A large majority of Spaniards agree that it is important for their government to set targets to increase the use of renewable energy by 2030 - 95% above the Union average of 92% - and also that the government must provide support to improve energy efficiency by 2030 - 92%, also above the Union average of 89%. Most importantly, 95% of respondents, above and above the EU average of 92%, support the goal of a climate-neutral European Union by 2050. Based on this concern of Europeans, including the Spaniards, the Union announced a few days ago the position that will lead to the Climate Change Summit convened by the Secretary-General of the United Nations for 23rd of this month, next week, with the aim of boosting climate ambition and accelerating action to implement the Paris Agreement. The Union is now the only major economy in the world that has fully translated into its legislation the steps to meet the Paris Agreement promises and will work to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, preparing for a climate-neutral economy by 2050. The European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have already supported the 2050 climate neutrality objective and will present a long-term Union strategy in early 2020 with the aim of achieving it. The European Commission has also proposed that at least 25% of Union expenditure be devoted to climate mitigation and adaptation activities. The future budget will therefore encourage climate-friendly action in all policy areas and will be subject to controls to ensure that investments that are not in line with the transition to climate neutrality are not financed. The European Union is jointly preparing with other partners an initiative to be launched next week in New York called the International Sustainable Finance Platform. The Socialist Government, taking this concern from the Spaniards, has turned climate policy over the past year, turning the fight against climate change into a state policy. Work has been done to activate a new agenda for the ecological transition, representing Spain's firm commitment to the Paris Agreement, as well as the need to respond to the climate emergency and the need to foster a more just and socially prepared economy for the challenges of the twenty-first century. There is a consensus of the international scientific community on the urgent need to substantially reduce global greenhouse gas emissions in the next decade. The latest IPCC report, as mentioned above, sets out as an essential requirement to avoid an increase in the global average temperature above 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels, to achieve climate neutrality by the middle of the century on the basis of equity and in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication efforts. The Government has already assumed the responsibility of facilitating a transformation of the Spanish economy towards a non-emissioned development model in which the country will gain in prosperity, energy security, employment generation, innovation, health, etc. The Government presented in February this year the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030, which is a road map for the next decade. In August this year, the in-depth evaluation of the current National Climate Change Adaptation Plan was also completed. A strategic framework is already being prepared...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u159	Mrs. Knight, you've got to finish, excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u160	In a moment. ... the strategic energy and climate framework to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, and the Council of Ministers of 21 February this year also adopted the preliminary draft climate law, which also provides for a follow-up committee. It is therefore not true, as the spokesman for Citizens says, that the Socialist Government has not complied. I mean, you can't say that there is no what is ignored, just say that you ignore it; it's much simpler. The Government has therefore repeatedly expressed its support for declaring the climate emergency in the first formally constituted Council of Ministers to align from now on all the policies of the Government of Spain. It is therefore proposed that the second paragraph of the motion should speak of climate neutrality rather than total decarbonisation, within a deadline to be reached by 2050 and not by 2040 for the reasons set out above. I say to you that we will vote in favour of this climate emergency statement if you accept our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Knight. Mr Erija Ciuró has the floor on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u162	Thank you very much, President. I would not like to begin my intervention without first expressing our deepest condolences to the victims and relatives of the victims and to all those affected by the floods that these days have punished the Peninsular Levant. In fact, it is an extreme phenomenon caused by the cold drop, a phenomenon that is not new and that year after year, with more or less intensity, has been affecting the Peninsular Levant. Therefore, we find extreme weather phenomena that overlap what would be new effects or variables that we do not know about. In view of the phenomena of these magnitudes, it is inevitable to ask us how much climate change is altering the degree of intensity of these seasonal phenomena. In that regard, I would like to take advantage of some of the conclusions contained in the report of the Subcommittee on Water Policy and the Challenges of Climate Change, which was adopted precisely in the previous legislature, as it is very enlightening in that regard. The different scenarios predict a clear increase in climatic variability and the Mediterranean puvliometrics, factors that will end up substantially altering seasonal rainfall patterns. These new patterns will result in a strong increase in drought risks, which will be more frequent, long and intense, and on the other hand, floods with more frequent growths and higher maximum flows. Therefore, we have at least diagnosed what these effects can be, to which is added what the current climate model would be. It is clear that climate change has come to stay and that today it already shows its most hostile face. I am not going to entertain myself to give many examples because they are known to everyone, in any case these changes in climate patterns that we perceive at regional or local level remind us that we are involved in a process at global level. In that sense, we have the ability if not to reverse it, yes to mitigate its effects, as long as we are able to react in time and be rigorous in the agreements we make. Why this weather emergency? Very simple: the lack of consistency and the delay in the implementation of consensual measures in international forums is not having the expected results. Following the Paris Agreement of 2016, a part of organised civil society launched a series of mobilizations in Australia to declare the climate emergency. The main reasons for this decision were expressed in an open letter published in the Melbourne The Age newspaper of 23 June 2016. The letter dealt with the following: In the climate talks in Paris, scientists and professionals from the island States have established a 1.5oC of warming as a red line that should not be crossed. At the beginning of this year, however, the global average temperature increased beyond 1.6 oC. On December 5, 2016, the Australian city of Darwin unanimously approved the motion to declare a state of climate emergency. Since then, statements have been made and, by the end of June 2019, more than eight hundred state, regional and local administrations from sixteen countries have declared the climate emergency with the inclusion of concrete actions. For this reason, we welcome the proposal of the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can bring the motion to debate, and we fully agree with the ten measures presented which are grouped around four main axes as they would be: the energy transition, the reduction of emissions, the safeguarding of biodiversity and waste management. There is even one point with which we agree that it refers precisely to the date envisaged to stop the sale of new motor vehicles and, in this case, there has been an open debate as to whether it should be in 2040 or 2050, as some of the groups with their amendments propose. Let us remember that measures taken so far by other countries include the ban on the sale of diesel or petrol cars from 2030 onwards, so we are talking about twenty years after what some States have agreed. We, on the other hand, will call for an extension of twenty years to decarbonize. Lucky it's been an emergency because twenty more years, look at the distance and the margins on which we work. Precisely, and given the lack of consistency in the delay in the implementation of environmental policies, it is clear that today's climate emergency calls for measures to be much more demanding, and we need to make this very clear. The later, the more demanding the measures must be. I'm finishing up. The effects of climate change not only have a global dimension, but also have their translation at regional and local levels and, in this regard, the Peninsula, as has been said, is particularly vulnerable because of its geographical location. Perhaps in this proposal we lack a greater demand for regional and local measures to address the effects that climate change is already having on our current climate model, but also on ecosystems and on the current development model itself. That is why we believe it is necessary to extend to all administrations the need to develop risk prevention plans in view of the prediction of climate variability scenarios and their adverse effects in the form of extreme climate events. It is not just a question of avoiding greater evils in anticipation of future scenarios; the effects already suffered today from the alteration of the traditional climate model, and in view of this new reality and evidence we must be able to adapt and be much more resilient than now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr López de Uralde and Mr Hervías, fortunately for almost 3 million Spaniards, there is already a voice and a representation of VOX in this rostrum, so and so that we do not need anyone to interpret us at your liking, your convenience, your demagogy or your need to always have an enemy in front of you. We interpret ourselves in this question and in all, without fear of any label, without fear of what they will say and without any kind of complex, no doubt. I will begin this intervention by pointing out, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, a threefold unequivocal commitment: our commitment to the conservation and preservation of the natural environment; our commitment to the preservation and conservation of the ecological heritage and our commitment to the preservation of the climate balance. That is the basic position of this parliamentary group. The honourable Members can then say what they want: that if the VOX Parliamentary Group is a negationist and if we are in the ultra caverns. It's exactly the same to us. It is said from this rostrum and reflected in the Journal of Sessions what our position is strictly. Today I come to insist on something that seems fundamental to me. When it comes to a matter of the nature of this, one cannot strive to remain systematically in the pure common places. Today we have attended a debate in which all the honourable Members have done nothing but compete in a successive collection of vagaries. From the literal tenor itself, from the literal tenor of the motion itself we have not heard a single speaker with the capacity to explain a specific measure useful for achieving the proposed end, which is nothing more than preserving the environmental conditions of the planet. Well, I correct: Yes, there has been an intervener who has proposed a concrete measure. Mr Bildu has said that the capitalist system must be brought to an end, which translates exactly into the lack of rigorous capacity, the lack of rigorous capacity - let me say it with all due respect - of this House as a whole to address this issue seriously. Of course, dealing with an issue like this cannot be done from a local perspective; it must necessarily be done from a universalist dimension and counting, as it is natural, with the momentum, the role and the motorization by the great world powers, because without that we will not be able to achieve anything, but the said does not prevent it from being possible - of course they can be - to carry out measures of a local or national type to move on this path. What can't be done when we talk about a question like this is to remember policies of bandages such as those carried out by successive socialist governments, for example, in matters as sensitive as fuel for automotive or renewable energy. What cannot be done is not to be carried away in this matter by the terminology proper to certain globalist lobbies, which respond to interests sometimes - sometimes - certainly unrecognizable even though they are dressed in a humanist and philanthropic tone. What cannot be done, Mr López de Uralde, proposer of the motion, is to remain on purely declarative issues and statements, and this question is purely declarative. This question does not have the slightest substance, and I believe, with all due respect to the world, that this motion does not respond at this time to that certain competition that leads between the Spanish left, unable to understand itself, unable to pose a serious option for Spain - also in this - when you are in the last week, in the killing and I will kill you, between the Group of the United Nations Podemos and the Socialist Group in relation to this matter. We are going to vote, without any complex, against this motion and we say that wherever you want to meet for dialogue, with technical rigour and with a vision of state, you will find us without any doubt, with technical rigour and with a vision of state, because at the end of the day, Mr López de Uralde, ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to the natural environment, our commitment to the climate balance, our commitment to the ecological heritage is a consubstantial part - it could not be otherwise - of that commitment which in two words underpins all our presence here, our raison d'être and our political activity. The commitment to the defence of the natural environment is also for us a commitment for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u165	Thank you very much. Mr López de Uralde, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u166	We accept the Socialist Group's amendment on 2050 and points 3 and 4 of the Citizens' amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u167	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group, on the evolution of public accounts and its impact on the well-being of Spain. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u168	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group on the evolution of public accounts and their impact on the well-being of the Spaniards. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u169	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank my group for the opportunity to participate again from this place, which is the history of Spain, in a new legislature. Thank you for letting me defend my country from this rostrum with my extreme accent. Let's talk about economics. Yes, gentlemen of the PSOE, I know it's like a visit to the dentist to you. I know talking about economics gives them a little bit of hives, but I'll try to be very clear so they don't have the temptation to continue with the demagogy these past few weeks. I'm sorry Dr. PlagScan isn't among us. Like his predecessor at the PSOE, this and two more evenings would have taught them a great deal. Our motion is very clear. To defend it let me make a little memory and let all those who try to deceive the Spaniards by hiding and manipulating data or changing and twisting others let us make it clear to them from our party, the People's Party. During these years the Spaniards have had one thing clear: nobody has spoken to them as meridianly and has managed the economy as well as the governments of the People's Party. For years, we had been listening repeatedly in the Committee on Budgets to talk about tailwinds. Everything was the responsibility of the tail winds and nothing of our management. Not anymore; either the wind has changed or, rather, you have changed the economic policy of this government. They have irreversibly moved away from the budgetary stability and economic discipline that the Socialists left behind the economy of the People's Party Government recovered from the disaster. These are not tailwinds, they have abandoned the policies that have brought Spain out of the crisis and have chosen to stop lowering taxes and propose to raise them indiscriminately. Yes, Spanish people are receiving more and more clearly that PSOE is synonymous with higher taxes, higher tax pressure and tax cuts in taxpayers' pockets. This goes from two antagonistic models: ours, that of energizing the economy and more in times of deceleration based on lowering taxes and relaunching consumption, and his model, the socialist, which is that of his last document, that of the Common Progressive Programme, which he does is to shoot the proposals of Podemos more reactionary fiscally. That is, they no longer have a model. From the story, marketing and posture, we no longer know where the PSOE is, whether to the left of Podemos or the right of Esquerra. What we do know is that it is in front of what the Spanish want. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards don't want any more deception. They do not want pompous appearances to announce that no one else would pay the tax on legal acts documented in mortgages, and that the Banco de España arrives a few months later and says that mortgages have risen 30 basis points only for that purpose. I know Calviño didn't like the Banco de España doing its job, but that's what he's for. Nor do the Spaniards want to present in these Chambers a bloated budget of tax increases, new taxes, taxes and widespread increases. That's right, @desdelamoncloa will tell us that Robin Hood's spirit that imprisons them is nothing more than to seek the money of the rich and distribute it to the poor. Sánchez is the Robin Hood of the 21st century; the same one that runs through Spain and its indie festivals on board a plane that we all pay, summer like a new rich or sees the laughs from the heights. Don't hang up, like don't hang up the diesel argument. Are the 17 million diesel drivers rich? Does anyone believe that technology will not pass on these taxes to their millions of customers? And the banks, does anyone think they won't hit them? Do you really think they're still cheating on someone? The Spaniards do not want any more deception or lies and ask to be made clear to them. What do you want to increase taxes by EUR 96 billion, as you put it in your document? Say it, loud and clear. Don't cheat, say it. Do you need time? I'll give you half a minute and you'll tell them, but tell them who's going to pay that €96 billion. Or I say to him: All the Spaniards, those who are watching us and all who are here. Return to budgetary discipline, square the accounts, comply with the Spanish and our partners, and comply with our autonomous communities. 70% of social spending comes from the autonomous communities in our country. Are you really going to keep stealing your 7 billion euros? Are they really going to continue to threaten and coerce the autonomous communities by telling them that there is either government in Spain or they don't charge their money? Because it's yours. Is this really your road map? What have we done to deserve so little respect? The phrase is not mine, this Corleone told Bonasera in the first scene of The Godfather. What have our autonomous communities done to deserve so little respect from their central government? [[Applauds]] The autonomous communities maintain most of the public services that generate the quality of life of citizens, their education, their health and their dependence. Are you really going to threaten all the Spaniards with that: either government or there's no money to pay for all that? I don't think that's serious. The minister told us here last week that it was only treasury, that it would not mean cutbacks in these basic services. Really? I'm telling you, I don't believe it. I don't believe it because they're already asking for adjustments to the autonomous communities. What about the city halls? Are they also going to use the city halls? It seems incredible that a government of a serious country, of a party that, when in opposition, looks like Zumosol's handsome cousin, comes to the government and turns into a trier, hiding the ball while moving the cubes. Stop using the municipalities as shields in view of their inability to form Government. Speak clearly to the Spaniards about their inability to manage our economy. Talk to them, for example, about the data on indefinite contracts, which fell by 20% in August, while, with a government of the People's Party, in 2018, they grew by 20%, in our last month. Tell the Spaniards how foreign investment in Spain is feeling, how exports are falling, how consumption is falling, how the number of mortgages or vehicle registrations is falling. Take advantage of any of the public media, which they use inconspicuously to their liking, and tell the Spaniards how the creation of companies in Spain lowers, the turnover of our companies, or how tourism data begins to resent. Am I? Are we talking about tailwinds that have changed or that you guys flew in and got in front of the air? Are we talking about the deficit, which we no longer know is the 1.3 that was agreed with Brussels, the 1.8 that they brought here and rejected it or the 2% that they are already talking about? Are we talking about social spending? In the 2019 budgets they were up 6.4%, while the infrastructures - some, those of the extremists did not, of course - were up 40%. Call it whatever you want. Keep going up to the tiger, but don't punish the Spaniards. Don't punish us. Get away from the populisms and the failed recipes; lower taxes, comply with budgetary discipline and we will again be a reliable country that can be trusted. Roosevelt said a radical is a man with both feet firmly planted in the air. Abandon your spin doctor profile and put your feet back on the ground. This will sound to them: Spain does not deserve a government that lies to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, and this time it will also fix its position, first of all, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the Canary Coalition is not going to support this motion. We, with the governments of the PSOE and the People's Party, have always been consistent and have never repudiated ministers, because we have always considered that the responsibility lies with the presidents. That's what we've done in every legislature. By introducing the amendment with Citizens, we are not going to support the motion. We would have liked them to have introduced the proposal that the Canary Coalition has made, because it seems to us essential that the autonomous communities do not pay the punishment of a finance minister who has not had political will and who has spent the last three months, instead of seeking a solution for the financing of the autonomous communities, to try to prevent a government from coming out, not to try to get a government out. In this sense, in the Canary Coalition, with people who know about this matter - with state lawyers, with technicians - we believe that with a decree-law based on the general interest and that the government guarantees the essential services, which is its obligation, could approve it, bring it to validation to this Congress, either in the Permanent Chamber - I suspect, because they are doing the press conferences and I do not know whether we are going to elections or not - or in the plenary if this legislature follows. Communities cannot wait; they are suffocated, and the political blackmail that the socialist government has done to pressure political parties and political forces so that, theoretically, there could be this discourse of 'choose Sanchez and they will have the money for health, education and essential services', cannot be allowed. We wish they hadn't. We are not going to support this because, simply, they have introduced into that transactional that is reproved to the minister. And I, even though I want the minister, politically, will certainly not blame her. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Then Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u173	Good afternoon. Look, the defense that you have made of the motion is the defense of a theoretical financial balance that is based only on cutting expenditures, but I have not heard any proposals for improving revenues through equitable tax measures, in a state that has less collection effectiveness in our nearest environment. At the same time, the People's Party defends a very curious spending ceiling; it does not set a spending ceiling to cover the deficit of banks, but there is a spending ceiling to cover the needs of unemployed families. There is no spending ceiling for arms, but there is spending ceiling for research and scholarships. There is no expenditure ceiling to pay for privatization of services, but there is expenditure ceiling for investments in public services. In fact, behind that theoretical defense of the institutions, of the municipalities, of the parliaments, etc., there is nothing but a threat, precisely, of drowning these institutions. We have a number of institutions, small municipalities, municipalities and provincial institutions that have very small deficits, or even surpluses, which through this Stability Act are preventing them from reinvesting those savings that they have made during their practice. Those institutions that are governing more responsibly and have surplus are being banned, prevented, and invested in social policies that are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, with your model of policy implementation, what you are actually doing is punishing the institutions that are being most effective. We are not going to approve this motion because we are facing that neoliberal model that is attacking people's most basic rights. In Euskal Herria be sure we're not going through there. We are going to make a policy based on defending the rights of citizens, because what you are representing is a real threat to the state of social welfare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u174	Thank you very much. Then you have the floor, Mr Miquel i Valentí.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u175	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know the fable of the scorpion and the frog, the one that tells the story of a scorpion lying on the bank of a river and asking a frog passing through there to cross it to the other side of the river, to which the frog says: No, because when we're in the middle of the river you're going to pinch me and we're going to die. The scorpion says to him, "No, man, no, how will I do that to you; we would both die." With this, in the end the frog accepts and loads the scorpion to cross it. When they are in the middle of the river, the scorpion pinches the frog, kills the frog, and they begin to sink. The frog says to him, "I told you, but what have you done?" And the scorpion answered him, "I'm sorry, it's my nature. What we have seen here today has been the nature of the two large groups in this House, who make some criticisms when they are in the opposition and the contrary when they rule. We agree that fiscal pressure should not be increased, but it was the People's Party that increased fiscal pressure on the citizens of this country. We agree that it is not necessary to owe money to the autonomous communities or to local governments, but it is the People's Party that has for a long time accumulated and retained money that was from the autonomous communities and local governments. I will tell you what you can do: you can improve the Tax Agency, which has a complicated operation, you can increase resources for the autonomous communities and you can pay the debts of the autonomous communities and local governments. There is no doubt that we are not going to support this initiative, which seems to us to be electoralist and technically quite improveable. Furthermore, as you know, we withdrew our amendment because we found that the initiative had a very clearly electoralistic orientation, as we have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De Quinto Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u177	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, your Government is failing to meet its spending commitments. I'm sorry, but the data is cruel to you. In July 2018 his Government approved the objectives for this exercise. Then the deficit forecast rose from 1.3 % to 1.8 %. Well, by June this year that deficit already stood at 2, 1. They also estimated that debt would be around 96% of GDP, and today it already exceeds 98% of GDP. Paradoxically, they have managed to get us to thank Mr Montoro for the budgets we continue to govern ourselves, because if we are subject to those you worked out with your partners, and this Congress rejected, the situation could be much worse. As everyone knows, fiscal prudence and electoralism have a bad match, and what you called on your social Fridays - which I think would be better called election Fridays - have contributed in part to this situation. But you do not learn, and therefore I anticipate that the new elections that you are forcing the Spaniards today will lead us to even more waste. On the 11th last day, Minister Montero took out a lot of breasts - too much - regarding her management in Andalusia. Look, ladies and gentlemen, a decent government has an obligation not only to square accounts, but also to exercise the necessary controls to ensure that public money is spent on what needs to be spent, not on other things. But, as is being deduced from the judicialized case of the ERE, the Andalusian Board, which Mrs Montero knows very well, not only did she not exercise such controls, but she dismantled some of them to facilitate so that public money, which is of everyone and not of anyone else, would be diverted more easily for other menesteres, menesteres that we are all ashamed of in this House. [[Applauds]] On October 26th the ERE case will presumably be handed down and we will all be able to get a more precise picture of what you Socialists understand to be good at managing public money. But the problem that we are dealing with today is that you have tried to use something as serious as financing the autonomous communities, and you have also lied. His Government had taken citizens hostage, blocking the transfer of resources to other administrations and jeopardizing the services they provided, and by the way compromising the survival of some small and medium-sized enterprises. I do not explain how Mrs Montero could say the other day that this blockage of payments did not cause any harm, which was harmless, because it only meant - and I quote textually - a problem of treasury and not of expenditure. That statement only denotes his tremendous ignorance of what a company is, and the difference that for it means charging thirty, sixty, ninety, or two hundred days, a difference that is nothing innocuous and that I think someone would have to explain to them what it is. [[Applauds]] He said that they lie because the Government, contrary to what they claim, is not tied up with its feet and hands to solve this hussy. You are not engaged in blocking deliveries as you were not engaged in a deal with Bildu in Navarre; yes, a deal. In fact, it seems that unlocking these funds is not so complicated when it comes to autonomy governed by their own, as El Mundo says today, where they say that the minister grants 250 million to Valencia and gives lengths to the PP's barons. The problem, of course, is not a legal problem, but a political one, and you want not only to blackmail us, but also to twist the law. In case it were little, Mrs Montero has tried to justify the blockade by parapetting in a report of the State's Attorney, initially non-existent, as she acknowledged, but a report that then appeared surprisingly at the last moment as to save Private Montero. In Citizens we know very well the ability of his Government to improvise reports, such as the famous Marlaska report, which appeared without signature and which seems to be being investigated by Madrid's 45th Court of Instruction. We also know very well the ability of his Government to twist the arm of the State Advocate, as my colleague Edmundo Bal, who certainly did not allow him to bend it, as they will never be able to bend it to the Spaniards. For all these reasons, for their disastrous management, for blackmailing and playing with the well-being of the Spaniards, for pure partisan interests, and for lying to cover up their true intentions, my parliamentary group joins this motion, and also of course calls for the reprobation of Minister Montero. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u178	Thank you very much, Mr De Quinto. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u179	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today, the PP is presenting us with a motion for a follow-up inquiry in which it proposes various measures, a motion that this group is not going to support, among other things because it calls for measures that you have not even complied with, nor will it proceed to a reprobation of the minister because it has not done so before. In short, it is a proposal that we also call an electoralist. On the one hand, they are talking about returning to the path of fiscal stability, and the truth is that it is curious that you mention this circumstance, because when you were in the Government you did not meet the objective of stability assigned by the Government of Spain, and when you did so it was thanks to the municipalities and the autonomous communities, not to the State administration and social security. In the motion they also point out - and today too - that the state was in 2.1% of the deficit, but what they do not say is whether in that account you have counted on the surplus of local administrations or not. They also set up a tax waiver, which has not yet been given because the Government has simply not been set up. In this respect, and with regard to tax-type measures, this group reiterates its caution, both in one sense and another, in raising or lowering taxes, because the objective of tax reform is to provide the public sector with the necessary economic resources to provide the services that society requires, to adjust and even to regulate tax figures in order to make a society more sustainable and of course more equal. We do not believe that reducing taxes directly increases growth. We are not in the defense of the Laffer curve; and less can we maintain a welfare state with less income. And it is that, as has been said in Davos, tax collection that is efficiently distributed in public services has proven advantages for the population. A system where you pay taxes, but when you open windows you see flowers, it doesn't generate questions. The problem is when you pay taxes but you don't know what your destination is. When talking about the Council's recommendation on the 2019 National Reform Programme, it is true that Brussels required extraordinary revenues to accelerate the reduction of the public debt ratio, and to ensure that public expenditure does not exceed its nominal growth of 0.9 during the 2020 financial year. But it seems that the margins resulting from the reduction in the cost of interest rates or the additional revenue from tax collection are certainly being used to reduce that public debt. Moreover, and with a Government in office at the moment, there are reforms that have not yet been carried out, so it does not seem prudent to talk about actions in the face of possible future failures. On the other hand, we do understand the need to hold the Government accountable for dealing with transfers and updates of deliveries to the autonomous communities, because it can lead to a cash flow problem. But again, like last week, we understand that you are raising this problem without really addressing the fundamental or structural issue, which is nothing but the reform of the autonomous funding of the common system communities, and which you did not face when you were in government. They also intend to transfer all responsibility in this matter to the Government, without paying attention to the fact that the origin of some of the consequences of the financing is due to decisions taken by the party of their Government, for example VAT. That is why, given the situation in which we find ourselves, in the face of a possibility of attending new elections, and in the face of clearly electoral proposals to alleviate some consequences that have not yet materialized, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u181	Thank you, President. Members, Members, before this motion tabled by the People's Party, it seems to me that the proponent is already in electoral campaign mode. I could no longer be in the antipodes of our political and economic ideology, both because of their diagnosis of reality and because of the recipes they propose, in your opinion, to safeguard the well-being of the Spaniards. There have already been several debates in this House on the fulfilment of the suffocating budgetary stability objectives imposed by Brussels. An austere policy applied during the years of economic crisis that, far from strengthening the welfare state, as you gentlemen of the PP have the defachability to say, has led us to a situation of greater inequality and precariousness at work. Because by now we should accept that this is not the right recipe. No one should accept more deficit limits than those that suit their economic situation, because the European Union needs no more austerity, but quite the contrary: a genuine New Deal that has the welfare of the population as its goal and the energy transition as a tool to ensure the well-being of the future population. You're also talking about giving up the tax hikes. What taxes? Who? To your friends at Ibex 35? To sustain a state of quality well-being - with capitals - resources are needed, and there are, there are. We argue that there is a very wide margin of collection through a fair and progressive tax system, which pays more than they have, and that is not the case in the Spanish State at present. We are talking, for example, about raising tax rates to higher incomes, about large companies paying at least as much as SMEs or that luxury goods are taxed at higher tax rates than basic consumer goods. Look at the measures that exist and that involve tax increases, but in a fair and equitable way, although I already understand that many of these measures do not arouse much sympathy between their ranks. But this does not interest you, and so every time storm clouds appear they take the opportunity to justify their neoliberal prescriptions and continue to dismantle the welfare state by applying insurmountable deficit percentages to autonomous communities and municipalities, which are the administrations closest to citizens and which provide the most essential services. [[Applauds]] And it doesn't matter if it governs the PP or if it does the PSOE, history repeats itself, and we take advantage of this plenary to ask the socialist government again to transfer the 2019 advances already received to the Generalitat de Catalunya, enough to drown the finances of the autonomous communities with the excuse of being a government in office. [[Applauds]] In short, gentlemen of the PP, I suppose you have already guessed that we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, an interesting proposal comes from those in their six years of government who have raised all the taxes that have been and will be. There were thirty increases in the first year and a half of the legislature, including five revisions of the IRPF, four of the company tax, two of the VAT or the creation of twelve new tax figures. It is interesting to note how the party that raised the overall rate of VAT from 18 % to 21 % asks to waive taxes to the party that raised it from 16 % to 18 %. And in case it wasn't enough, they acted irresponsiblely with the money of all the Spaniards, raising the level of public debt to really impressive figures. After the Spanish Socialist Workers Party you are Spanish sub-champions in issuing debt and raising taxes. In VOX we believe that responsible budgetary policy must be based on responsibility, common sense and state sense, but you have not been responsible. Responsibility, gentlemen of the People's Party, is not to increase public debt by EUR 401 billion between 2011 and 2017, from 69.5% of GDP to 98.1% - while GDP only increased by EUR 96 billion -. This means that for each euro of GDP increase the debt was increased by €4.18. Responsibility is not to issue debt rather than to dismantle an expensive and inefficient autonomous state. Responsibility and good management, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is not to close the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 with deficits of 10,95 %, 9,38 % or 9,64 % of GDP. Nor is it increasing public debt from 45.3% in 2004 to 69.5% of GDP in 2011. And you haven't had common sense either. Common sense is to reduce debt against the impact that an increase in interest rates, now at the lowest levels of its history, could have on public accounts conditioned by the high level of debt; common sense is what guided companies and families during the past crisis to reduce their debt. While public debt grew between 2008 and 2018 by €733 billion, the private debt of families and businesses fell by more than €58 billion. That is, the Spaniards tightening their belts and saving, while the PP and PSOE governments rewarded us with the effort to be more indebted. You have not acted responsibly, with common sense and not with a sense of state. State sense is not to transfer tax increases to future generations, who will have to pay the high volume of public debt. In Spain, at the end of the second quarter of 2019, the per capita debt amounts to EUR 25,791, which in my case, in a family of four members, means that we have EUR 103 000. State sense means obtaining a primary surplus that allows debt to be reduced, in the same way as families and businesses have; a primary surplus that allows debt to be paid and its absolute value to be reduced. It is a sense of State to realize that a high debt is an undoubted loss of sovereignty. In VOX we think that action must be taken, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. On the revenue side, our proposal is to eliminate or reduce taxes. On the expenditure side in Spain we find that waste and clientelisms are put before an in-depth analysis of the doubles and inefficiencies of the expenses of the multiple administrations. Fiscal policies lack medium- and long-term objectives, and public spending continues to be used with political and electoral criteria. In VOX we consider it essential to have common sense, responsibility and sense of state.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u184	Mr. Saez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u185	I'm done, Madam President. We believe that this motion represents an amendment to its own policies and is in the right direction, so we will support it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Freixanet Mateo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u187	Gentlemen, today we are dealing with something crucial, the state of public accounts and what to do with the indicators that point to an economic slowdown, when for the majority of citizens the destruction of the previous crisis is still their daily reality today. There are conjunctural problems such as the United States-China trade war, its impact on Germany, or the Brexit itself, but they add to structural problems, the doctrine of austerity and the orientation of our economic policy in the last decade. And you have to ask yourself, how is Spain in economic and social terms, and in what state of shape is it in order to face a possible recession? In our opinion, frankly wrong. Our welfare state has not recovered from the cuts that socialists and people applied as a failed recipe to the last crisis. The drowning of autonomous communities and municipalities is unsustainable, we must now, as a matter of urgency, unblock emergency transfers and reform the financing system, although your position here, ladies and gentlemen, is pure cynicism that has already been demonstrated. And economic recovery has also not reached the pockets of the majority. Wages have not recovered and our economy is still based on sectors of high seasonality and precariousness. Today, 10% of the wealthiest population owns more than half of the country's wealth, and 1% of the wealthiest, 1% of the tax privilege has 3.4 times more than 50% poorer, half of our people. Inequality, ladies and gentlemen, is unleashed. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, your proposal is more than the same, pure failed ideology, to continue to weaken a very weakened welfare state, to continue to depress the daily economy and to reduce the Spanish Government to a mere Brussels rendezvous, which renounces to make use of its margin of action. Your motion places compliance with the path of stability above any social need, above citizenship, and marks the line of renouncing social spending and income; reducing, constraining, undermining the State, which is what you always think of. That is a theft of citizens, but it is also that they compromise the future of the country and our possibilities to face the next crisis. Our political group is in favour of changing the European Union's fiscal framework, and not just our group, because that review is already on the agenda. But even within the framework of the Union, there are strong welfare states and minimal welfare states as the PP dreams of. Why not, for example, tell the extreme wealth to pay what it has to pay to be able to cover the state of collective well-being, as other countries do? You deny the margins of action that this country has, and in its accounts it simply cannot live. So, what to do? Countercyclical policies, ladies and gentlemen, that when the private sector loses strength the public can endure the economy. What you defend would speed up the recession. It already happened in 2013 - if we've already lived it - after they passed the Stability Act and then the biggest cuts in history. Countercyclical policies, what we need is for fiscal policy to act, a progressive tax reform because today the system is profoundly unfair; for those who have the most to contribute with what they have and to devote those revenues to the welfare system, to social protection and to invest in strategic economic sectors, for example, those sectors that prepare us for the ecological challenge or, for example, to invest in care, which is fundamental: dependence, health, early childhood. Investing public money in care is vital, vital to life. Of course we need predisposition policies: raising minimum wages, repealing labour reform, employment with rights. That increases consumption and is a brake on the recession. A magnificent example is the rise in the minimum wage that we have achieved; a social achievement, but also an economic boost. In short, we must stop helping crises, which is what you do; we must stop helping crises. We need a strong government, anchored on the left, that does not buy you the framework for deepening depression, that puts life at the centre; a government that can lead an economic alternative in Europe and ensure that the crisis does not pay for it the usual ones; a government that banishs cuts and accounts for people inside. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you must decide now, because people live drowned. Either you are the PSOE that anchored 135 in the Constitution, indistinguishable economically from the right, or you work with us, with trade unions and organised civil society to show that there is an alternative way to face a recession, to defend that this country does not renounce social justice, to defend that this country does not renounce shared well-being and that there is hope. Decide, ladies and gentlemen, decide: either you serve the economic line of Mark of Fifth or you serve ours, but everything cannot be. Decide why the material living conditions of the vast majority of the population are at stake. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Freixanet. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that their disqualifications portray them. Let the institutional relations throughout the territory cease to be irresponsibly strained. Leave that toxic rhetoric which certainly does not lead to anything good, because there is no blockade on the part of the Government, and you know it. It is precisely the Finance that suffers from the consequences of the political blockade that you have made to new budgets and that you also continue to pose to the investiture. Blocks that have forced the Government in office to continue with extended budgets, with limited capacity for action. Finance is fulfilling, it is transferring monthly deliveries to 2019's account, there is no record of its update in the absence of a budget approved by the General Courts, and you know it. There is also a commitment on the part of the Minister to seek solutions before the end of the year. However, you - and many in fact continue to think about your things without thinking about what citizens need - rather than demanding solutions, real solutions, with a government that has all the capabilities, all you are trying to do is keep this issue alive by pure electoral strategy. [[Applauds]] With regard to the evolution of the accounts, I do not know which country you live in, but our country still maintains strong socio-economic indicators. August's number of affiliates is the best data for August of the decade, and there are 2.55% more jobs than last year. The Spanish economy is resisting the slowdown better than the rest of the countries in the environment, and the deficit of the state continues to shrink compared to the previous year. But that said, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that many are the challenges we face in an increasingly globalised world. The influence of the economy, of the decisions of other countries such as the protectionism of the United States or China, the geopolitical tensions over crude oil, the decision of the Brexit, or global warming, which is already leaving a mark, as we could see this very weekend with the extreme and virulent cold drop, are global challenges that can affect public accounts, and therefore cannot be left out of the analysis either. For socialists, the importance of a strong State capable of preventing and mitigating the most negative impact of these global challenges with sufficient resources is unquestionable. Our engagement? A strengthened State which, while promoting and enhancing solid growth, responds to the needs of citizens in the face of adversities such as unemployment, disease or those arising from ageing itself, inter alia, by ensuring equal access to public services throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, of course it is you who have renounced the measures that have made that commitment possible by the Government. [[Applauds]] And yet the motion proposed to us by the People's Party goes precisely the opposite direction; its proposals, far from seeking shared answers to the difficulties, pose us with recipes that seek the weakening of the State. They propose to return to indiscriminate cuts and adjustments when they already know that in the past they were a failure. They reduced public spending in terms of GDP by 4.57% in five years, and despite all the suffering generated by the People's Party government successively failed to meet fiscal consolidation commitments, to the point of having to renegotiate the deficit path up to three times and expose the country to a million dollar fine. Montoro has the merit of having led Spain to be the last country to leave the excessive deficit procedure, and it was precisely with a socialist government when last June we left. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Government always fulfils the commitments to Europe, and therefore proposed a path of stability adapted to a reasonable, feasible and realistic fiscal effort, which you have certainly blocked. Secondly, they impose a sterile debate on us. The question for us is not to raise or lower taxes, the discussion should focus on how to achieve a fair, harmonised taxation in all territories that avoids fiscal dumping, and adapted to the new economic and digital reality. And few lessons on this matter can be given by the People's Party, because being in the government, at the same time they decided an immoral fiscal amnesty, forgiving taxes to those who have the most, raising indirect taxes to all alike, exacerbating the hardness of the crisis and undermining the collective fiscal conscience. Is that your good management, Mr. Píriz? Is that the good management of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] They focused all their efforts on internal devaluation at the expense of the working class and, when the favourable tail winds arrived, yes, they were unable to take advantage of them. Is that the economic miracle of the People's Party? It has been with the Socialist Government that measures have been taken during these months to combat job insecurity, strengthen the welfare state and promote a productive and intensive model in innovation and knowledge with which to deal with digitization or ecological transition with guarantees. And I'm done, Madam President. Thank you so much. The good combination of measures is what guarantees the well-being of people, not the measures themselves, as they claim with this motion. For all the above reasons, we shall vote against. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Mr Píriz Maya, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u191	Yes, we have filed a transaction with Citizens, and the rest will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u192	Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON INDULTS GRANTED TO SEPARATIST LEGISLATIVES. [[File number 173/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u193	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the granting of pardons to independent leaders. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u194	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is presenting this motion basically as a result of the fact that, having been questioned by the Government on numerous occasions on the subject in question, that is, whether it has in its political vocation to pardon or not, whether or not to open the pardon file to those who are most likely to be convicted of the judgment of what we call the trial, we have never received a reply at any time. We have heard vague excuses and gross pretexts, but we have not heard an answer. Of course, I am addressing the whole House, but in particular the Socialist Group, which supports the Spanish Government. I ask you to vote yes to this motion, as I say. I also say, Madam President, that we will not accept either of the two addenda that have been submitted to us. That of Junts per Catalunya was trying to add a paragraph concerning that relations between the State and Catalonia should be ventilated in politics, and not in the courts, not with sentences, not with sentences. Mrs Borràs, the exercise of politics is not a safe conduct to commit crimes. [[Applauds]] And VOX's claim was that we should also urge the government to reform the Pardon Act and exclude certain offences from it, a claim with which my parliamentary group agrees, but we have to say that this is not the time. Ten minutes ago we just heard that there is no candidate, and this is the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, in which you have to portray yourselves with this vote. They have to tell us clearly whether or not to our motion, whether or not to the pardons of the thugs. And there are no more answers for the Spaniards, just these. [[Applauds]] The three pretexts Mrs Delgado used at last week's plenary session cannot be called reasons, they are gross excuses not to express themselves. First, he tells us that all citizens have the right to pardon. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that at least twice you have been through legal reforms of the Pardon Act, where you said that those convicted of crimes of macho violence and those related to corruption did not have the right to be pardoned. And you said you didn't have it because that way you got a social sensitivity, because society in these disgusting crimes wanted the sentences to be carried out in full. Is there not in this case that we are talking about this social sensitivity of the majority of the Spaniards so that the coupsmen will carry out their sentences in full? Doesn't it exist in this case? Is that what they're gonna tell me by voting no? [[Applauds]] They also argued, on the basis of simple legal arguments, that the judgment was not yet final. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking the government to say at once whether it is going to open an administrative file of pardon, because it understands that it is a cause of public utility to sell pardons for investiture. We only ask them to do that, we ask them to express their political will. And, therefore, it is not necessary to say that the sentence is not firm, that we all know. But, thirdly, above all, the most irritating argument, which is most unworthy, is that we are being accused of disturbing the normal exercise of jurisdictional power, that we are violating the division of powers. Do you know how the normal exercise of jurisdiction is disturbed? It is disturbed when high leaders of the Socialist Party say that it would be better for those in provisional detention to be on the street, ultimately criticizing the Supreme's provisional arrest warrants. [[Applauds]] The division of powers and the normal exercise of jurisdiction are violated when Mr.Iceta and the government delegate in Catalonia - by the way, without a final ruling yet - say that we must be brave and ask for pardon. This violates the division of powers. [[Applauds]] And it is true, as I said the other day from this rostrum, that the judges are not influenceable, that the judges are looking at that lady who carries the scales in one hand, the sword in the other and a blindfold, but it must be borne in mind that anyone who thinks of the effort made by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court - with important personal inconveniences for Mr Llarena, who has carried out an exemplary trial and is deliberating a sentence that will be drafted and will be long -, any one of these people who sees that the Government does not tell him that he is not going to pardon these gentlemen and that his work may not be worth anything, can indeed be considered disappointed by the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] We ask you to say no to the pardons, to guarantee precisely the division of powers, so that the seven magistrates of the Supreme Court know that their sencia will be fulfilled. That's the power division. [[Applauds]] The Government of the Socialist Party has carried out a number of acts since it arrived at the Government that cause many Spaniards to go down the street in Cabizbaos, thinking they belong to a weak State, to a State that does not plant in front of separatism, that does not plant in front of crimes against constitutional order. And what did you do? How did you do it? Lifting the budget controls of the Generalitat, tolerating the yellow ties in the public buildings, sending Mr. Iglesias to negotiate with Junqueras in prison the budgets, hiding from the Spanish the twenty-one points of infamy, admitting the conspicuous rapporteur, subtracting from the debate of the parliaments that of Catalonia and putting it at the party table, criticizing the provisional prison cars and asking for pardon. All that has been done by the Socialist Party, all that has been done by the Spanish Government. We give them the opportunity to correct those mistakes, the opportunity to vote yes to the Citizens' motion. They have three opportunities: the first, to give us joy to the Spaniards, to know that we are part of a serious state that is facing the crimes and the independenceists; the second, to disengage from their partners, to enter into a clean electoral campaign, without playing the game to Esquerra Republicana and to Mr Torra when he says that he is not going to obey the sentence; and until ten minutes ago you had a third chance: to tell Mr Rivera that, indeed, you were going to meet the conditions for the abstention in the investiture. [[Applauds]] We're going to the second election because you're irresponsible. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u195	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor]] Mr. Rufian, article and mention of why.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u196	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 71(3), on the basis of the subject of coups, which has been referred to by your Lordship. I want to ask you to remove it or at least say it to Montse Bassa's face. She's here; she's talking about her sister, tell her to the face. [[Rumors]] The only thugs who entered this Congress were those from the shots that are on the roof. By the way, one of them was Navy, who was pardoned by the government in a real way, and I don't see them so pissed off. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr Bal, would you like to respond to the withdrawal consideration of the Journal of Sessions?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u198	I have not heard any of the Rules of Procedure that mentions this issue. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u199	I'm just asking if you have any answers to the mention.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u200	Of course, the term used seems to me nothing but descriptive, non-offensive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u201	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix positions at this time, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u202	Thank you, President. Mr Prendes and Mr Bal, if in the Kingdom of Spain there are political prisoners and exiles and, moreover, incapacity and political futility, it is said and end point. The motion put forward by Citizens only reflects the punitive populism of a party that does not seek to build anything, rather the opposite. Moreover, the lack of technical rigour in the proposal makes it possible to attribute not only the signature but also the authorship to Mr Bal. [[Rumors]] It is clear that it corresponds to an initiative conceived at a procedural stage prior to the farce of the trial and that now, for reasons of political expediency, it has been presented with an updated date. It also looks like a vendetta, Mr. Bal, towards your former boss. And it's not going to be us who defend the minister, but this attack has more to do with misogyny and visceral hatred for everything that smells like Catalan independence. [[strong protests]] Mr Bal, gentlemen of Citizens, they claim that they are concerned about the image and credibility of Spanish justice, and they do well to worry, because they are on the ground thanks to their contribution, to Citizens and VOX, because for the case all this is the same. And speaking of the discredit of Spanish justice, let me take the opportunity to congratulate and give our support to the friend Valtonyc. Spain continues to stumble and make the international ridiculous and you continue to show that the ones we are in Matrix are us. Fortunately, I think people are starting to see the elephant. In short - and I finish - what Mr Bal claims with this proposal and with Rivera next door, not getting tired of doing the ridiculous thing is doing the same thing that he did from the State's Advocate, that is, politicizing justice more by implementing this punitive populism, instead of seeking political solutions to political problems and conflicts. Finally, in the absence of a judgment, this proposal, together with statements by some political representatives and ministers, such as Mrs Calvo, is in breach of the presumption of innocence, Mr Bal, according to the European Court of Human Rights and the Community Directive 343/2016. We can say, with Rivera, no. Obviously, our vote is going to be no. Thank you. Free political prisoners and exiles and live Catalonia free.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor]] Yes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u204	I ask you to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the allusion you have made to insult me, calling me misogynist; I appear to be suffering from misogyny. I just want to say, firstly, that it is an insult and, secondly, that it is absolutely uncertain, I assure the whole House. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u205	Thank you. [[Mrs Nogueras i Camero calls for the floor]] Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u206	Mr. Bal, it was descriptive. Thank you very much. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u207	Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Well, to me, Mr. Bal, I think you've done very well. [[Applauds]] This is very simple: whoever is in favour of the pardon will vote against and whoever is in favour of not being pardoned will vote in favour. But don't worry, the Socialist Party won't support you. Moreover, in a few days we will hear you say that you are statesmen, because yesterday the Minister of the Interior said in Navarre that EH Bildu and Geroa Bai were constitutionalists, with which in four days the Catalans will be statesmen. [[Applauds]] And the Minister of the Interior, who are constitutionalists, said so. That's right, while the Minister of the Interior said that, a councilwoman of EH Bildu from Pamplona City Hall was recognizing his membership in the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] But it is that, at the same time, the Socialist Party of Navarre was negotiating in the Commonwealth of Pamplona County with the comrades of that councilman of Bildu in the City of Pamplona. And all that happened at the same time. But nobody deals with anyone here. So, what do we have? What we have is very clear, that the Socialist Party could have chosen between the constitutionalists and Esquerra and EH Bildu, and has chosen Esquerra and EH Bildu. And we have more: the ones on the mountain are the Union of the Navarro People, the People's Party and Citizens, and the ones that are centered are they, the ones that rely on Euskal Herria Bildu and Esquerra. I think it's all said. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u209	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u210	Good afternoon. We have seen it throughout the day, we have seen it in previous days and we are seeing it in the debate we are holding now. It's a shame and a irresponsibility that you give yourself a new chance to the right, we're seeing it right now. And I say this because, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, your proposal, which will certainly also count on the vote of the PP and VOX, is deeply revealing of your concept of democracy and justice: you advance to the Supreme and propose to prevent hypothetical legal measures in the face of a sentence that you already consider to be condemnatory. We are not surprised, to come from the mouth of those who demand the application of article 155 immediately, in a preventive way, and because what they propose is an expression more of a long Spanish tradition, that of dealing with conflicts not with democratic solutions, but with measures of coercion, punishment and repression. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You allude in your motion to the principle of equality before the law and indicate that any hint of impunity must be banished with regard to the political leaders. Well, do you, ladies and gentlemen, know what the ranking of pardons in the Spanish state has been like in recent decades? From 1996 to 2016, 227 pardons have been granted to political representatives convicted of corruption cases. By the way, most of them to their PP partners. He has also been pardoned for sound political representatives convicted of actions by the LAG, such as the former Minister of the Interior, Barrionuevo, or the former Secretary of State, Rafael Vera. And to you, so given to speak of coupism when you refer to Catalonia, I remind you that the military Armada, one of the ideologists of the 23F, that coupist, was also pardoned by the government; without forgetting the pardons to police and civilian guards condemned for torture: of sixty-two agents condemned for torturing Basques and Basques, half have been pardoned and then some decorated. Do you know what this means? Because throughout history the Spanish State has used the Law of Pardon to protect itself and to protect that idea and that concept of the sacrosanct unity of Spain, it means that state terrorism, torture and corruption are forgiven in Spain and, instead, vote in a ballot box is paid expensive, very expensive. Needless to say, we will not support the motion, because this judicial process should never have been reached, and there can be no other just sentence than that of acquittal for Catalan independence leaders... [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u211	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first speech in this Congress of Deputies, the seat of the national sovereignty of the Spanish people - despite the fact that some of the Members and some of the groups have not wanted to accept this situation for decades - it is an honour for me to intervene here and to do so precisely on behalf of the VOX parliamentary group and on behalf of millions of Spaniards, and to do so in a matter that directly affects the effective defence of national unity, the sovereignty of the Spanish people, the constitutional rule of law, the division of powers and, therefore, the independence of the judiciary, because this parliamentary initiative that we are debating today is the result of a coup d'état perpetrated by the institutions of Catalonia, precisely against the unity of Spain, against the rule of law and against the democracy and freedom of all Spaniards; a coup d'état which was discovered, investigated, its authors arrested and imprisoned in a precautionary manner, and we are awaiting, after the trial, a ruling by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. And this was possible thanks to the legal action of the VOX Group, of the VOX political party, alone, because none of the parties in this House did anything at all when it was due and when it could, when, moreover, they had infinite means to have done so. [[applause]] I'm saying we're acting alone, aren't we, gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party? Although it is true that there was a party that did act, but it was not precisely in the defence of the rule of law and in the persecution of the coups. It was the Socialist Party, which, from the government, after failing in its attempt to double the pulse to the prosecutor's office, did, on the other hand, manage to double the pulse to the State's Advocate, making it, regrettably, the Government's Advocate, or, even more serious, the Advocate in the service of the interests of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] This motion is based on the same principles as my parliamentary question to the Minister of Justice - she asks, by the way, very clearly that she did not want to answer: is the government going to grant pardon to the coupsmen if they are convicted?-, whose silence and evasive, coming out of the tangent, worries the Spaniards enormously. As I say, it is based on the same principles: the principle of defending the independence of judges, the principle of persecuting crime and not accepting impunity and the principle that pardons cannot be granted to those who have perpetrated a coup d'état. But it is an insufficient motion. That is why our amendment to add, because we ask this House to urge the Government to reform that anachronistic and nineteenth-century Pardon Act of 18 July 1870, so that neither this Government nor the next nor any, of any colour, can ever grant an pardon to those who have perpetrated the most serious crimes in democracy: rebellion crimes, sedition crimes, crimes of misappropriation of public revenues and crimes of disobedience. [[The lady]] That is why we ask you to move forward with this amendment, because, as you know, criminal law has a dual function. On the one hand, the obvious, the punitive function, that of punishing those responsible, the guilty, but as important as that is a deterrent function, so that those who intend to commit the same criminal acts - and we already have the xenophobic of Quim Torra announcing that he will do so - know that the rule of law will act with all force, with all rigour, that they will be arrested, that they will be tried and that, if they are convicted, no Government will ever be able to pardon them. [[Applauds]] That is, in short - and I will finish with this - the reason for our amendment, so that today's coup-makers or those who intend to do so in the future will not be left with the slightest hint of hope that if they commit a crime they will be able to find either a government that bends to their blackmail or a government that directly commits the betrayal of not defending the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u214	Thank you very much, President. The motion now debated on the proposal of Citizens is preceded by its various interventions on Catalonia and the procedure at the plenary session held last week in this House. Thus, they claimed from the Government the reapplication of article 155 in Catalonia for apparently the stated intention of the President of the Generalitat to dismiss an eventual conviction of the accused independenceist politicians. They also announced initiatives to reform the Euroorder in relation to the situation of President Puigdemont and other former members of the Government of the Generalitat. They also called on the Government to express its failure to grant pardons to those same Catalan independenceist politicians. All these petitions are not only in the pre-election moment at which we are standing, but also in assuming that there will be a conviction, that it will be disregarded and that the Government will pardon the condemned, and also - as the President of the Government pointed out to the spokesman for Citizens - because 155, ETA and Venezuela are their monothemes. If we begin with the claim that Article 155 should be applied again by means of a manifesto of intentions and that it should withdraw its words, the President of the Generalitat, we believe that this is no longer to be received, not only politically, not even in the light of the recent manifestations and the content of the rulings of the Constitutional Court on Article 155. It states that the coercive intervention of the State calls for legal and institutional alterations made in material terms, not eventual alterations, since article 155 is not a clause that empowers the State to ignore itself neither the rule of law nor the guarantee of autonomy. Furthermore, he points out that article 155 is a means of last resort, of a temporary nature and that it should only be undertaken when the general channels or rules of ordinary control - and I quote from article 153 of the Constitution - have proved insufficient to restore constitutional order. In short, it is one thing to announce that contempt of a sentence will be called if it were a conviction and a very different one in the future, but neither the sentence has been issued nor the call to contempt has occurred nor its realization made effective; even, if all this were to occur, it would have to be seen whether with the ordinary controls it would be sufficient before proceeding to the last resort, which is article 155. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, too many eventualities in the face of an infringement, if any, which has not yet materialised. With regard to their claim to modify the Euroorder to delete the double-listing system, I am already in advance of them that will not happen. In the face of the so-called crimes of the Euroorder, this double list is a consequence of the criminal differences between the Member States that must be respected and responds to reasons of criminal policy and guarantee to avoid the excessive extension of the scope of the punishable that would give carte blanche to the most repressive punitive systems, which would thus always have the best right to more liberal penal systems and is also explained to ensure the punitive coherence of the system of which cooperation is claimed. As well as a possible conviction, the Government is requested to state that it will not grant pardon to convicted persons. This, ladies and gentlemen, has already been said in this rostrum, it is only a fictional exercise that the only thing you seek is to wear down the government by overacting regardless of cohabitation or reducing tension. But since you insist, I must tell you that there has been no rebellion, no sedition or coup d'état for the Basque Parliamentary Group. We are facing a constitutional crisis around a national question answered by the State with emergency measures. I would also like to point out that the institution of pardon is not an arbitrary privilege but a prerogative of the Government and that it exists in all the constitutions of our environment as an instrument of criminal policy and also of the policy itself to temper the jus puniendi in the light of circumstances of material justice, equity and also of public utility which, as the Supreme Court points out, among other purposes is that of smoothing international conflicts and resolving in their case serious public problems affecting internal coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, justice, and I said it once in this rostrum, must be blind; the interests of a society, no. Nor will we support this motion because it advances the events surrounding the presumption of innocence of those now accused and not yet convicted. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, for you to restore coexistence is a surrender and a humiliation. His thesis is more dialogue more confrontation and I tell you that political problems are not prohibited, they are faced, they are not solved by Article 155. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you continue to propose judicial measures for what is not known to be channeled and solved and, in addition, you are committed to meeting it. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u215	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u216	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good afternoon. From the prison, where I am unjustly imprisoned, I turn to the representatives of the Spanish state's citizenship to say: I do not ask for a pardon, I want justice. Pains..... [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]] Dolors Bassa, from cell 25 of Puig de les Basses prison. This was my sister's answer when I told her of the motion we are dealing with today. Obviously the same answer that the other political prisoners would have given me. Listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen: while you are talking about pardons, what they want is justice. And it is that you, lords of Citizens, do not seek justice: you seek vengeance. They want to punish us, so they are happy that our political representatives, our families, our comrades, are in jail. And they are happy, as they were glad that on October 1st they sent the police to shout 'a for them' to hit us. [[Rumors]] And they applauded the blows to teachers, masons, self-employed, retired, students, people like any other person in Albacete, Seville or León. [[Rumors]] To people like any of you for the simple crime of wanting to vote democratically and peacefully. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] And they're so proud that they hit us that they've even decorated the charges that ordered it. The people in prison are imprisoned for being representatives of the citizenry and for fulfilling the majority democratic mandate of the Catalan people. They are in jail for claiming a democratic right such as that exercised by other peoples, such as Scotland or Quebec. And precisely because they fight for a democratic right they are political prisoners and prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a political conflict, not a criminal one. You and the courts could interpret the law and the Constitution generously as Canada did rather than restrictively. Be brave and allow the right to vote of Catalans and Catalans. But even if you believe that the Constitution does not allow it, you can change it, the problem is not what a Constitution approved forty years ago says in the post - or not so much post - Francoism, but today in the 21st century you do not want to interpret it in a generous way, nor just change it. They don't even want to talk to us: they'd rather hit us, put us in jail. How much hate do you have to feel if you want to beat us up and put us in jail before you talk? I wonder, I really wonder, I repeat, if you are people. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They will never solve the Catalan problem; they know that. But you do not want to solve it but to gain votes at the expense of fostering an intolerant nationalism in which the unity of Spain is above the will and even the suffering of the Catalan people. And I certainly recognize that they make us suffer. First, people imprisoned and, secondly, our mothers, children, babies, relatives, friends and friends of these, among which there are all ideologies. Because you see that there are many people voting for parties like the PSC, Citizens and the PP who want the unity of Spain, yes, but who are also against the imprisonment of our politicians because they do not share the repressive logic and because they understand that political problems are solved by talking and not by incarculating. However, let me make it clear to you that it is a pride for me to be able to say that, despite everything, they have not managed to change our convictions. On the contrary, we are independentists and will continue to fight. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u217	Mrs. Bassa, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u218	And that is why, if the judges end up condemning our political prisoners and prisoners in application of the laws passed by this Parliament, we do not want them to be forgiven but to change these laws because they are unjust and you...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u219	Mrs. Bassa...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u220	...if they were more democrats than Spanish nationalists - I'm finishing - they should also consider them unfair. That is the political and democratic struggle of our political prisoners and prisoners and, therefore, they do not want forgiveness of pardon but the justice of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Propagated applause from the Members of the Republican Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u222	Thank you, President, and good night to everyone and everyone. This is a motion, Mr Bal, which questions the separation of powers and seeks to close the door to any solution to the territorial conflict, nothing new in Citizens. Unfortunately, the surprise has been that since yesterday the Socialist Party has given in to these positions, even today even considering opening the door to a pact that seeks to apply an autonomous state of exception in Catalonia. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u224	It has been more than 24 hours since Mr Rivera's offer and I must say to you that I deeply regret the silence of some Socialists in their ranks and the absolute silence of the Catalan Socialists and Mr Iceta who have not yet had the courage to oppose the possibility of a pact which intends to continue to damage the Catalan institutions - thus also damaging the lives of the people - or to demarcate the position which Mr Ábalos has defended this morning saying that he was willing to value it. I am very surprised, but seeing that you are even able to publish photos in restricted areas where we all speak in this House... At this point, unfortunately, I'm not surprised anymore. [[Applauds]] And something is not right, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if in the end the voice that is imposed is that of the gurus of paid marketing above the general interest of the Spaniards. You send us irresponsibly to an electoral repetition because you do not want to decide between a social and dialogueal government or continue dragged by those of Spain from the territorial confrontation. And that's what this is about. Having said that, Mr Bal, your motion seeks to put the bandage before the wound. We're in the usual. You say you want to guarantee the equality of all citizens before the law. That is, less for the rich and privileged to whom you apply laws to pay less taxes in those communities where you govern. His education spokesman said that in the past plenary session. For you all who do not think alike is ideological scrap and with this motion, moreover, you are also presumed criminals. [[Applauds]] Let's go to the bulk of the motion. Pardon - and you should know that, Mr Bal - is an exceptional measure that falls within the competence of the Government and that we all have the right to sue. Once there is a conviction, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, everyone must have the same rights, and they are pardoned according to the particular case of each person and not according to the crime committed, because the gravity of the crime is decided by the judges, not by the Government and much less by you. [[Applauds]] Because, seeing this motion, it seems that what you would like is for the sentence to be drafted by Mr Rivera and Mrs Arrimadas with their fist and letter or, worse still, that you already knew the outcome of this sentence. Look, we have a lot to say about the judiciary in this country, many have been told by my partner, Vicky Rosell, who first experienced what it means to have a politicized judiciary and impunity for those who feel powerful. And this, Lords of Citizens, comes from afar. I remember - and all the ladies and gentlemen that we are here - the rascal that you have been giving during these months - buses including running through Madrid - with the subject of pardons. They should be reminded that they even forgot the International Day against Machist Violence and had to change that manifestation; priorities that each has. If you want to talk about the law of pardons, let's talk, but let's do it rigorously. Let us talk about what circumstances, what reasons should be taken into account for their granting or not, how we provide justice with resources so that it is not wrong; let us talk about that and there we will also go in to modify many of the issues that have allowed, for example, that in this country corrupts and torturers have been pardoned for no reason whatsoever that justifies it or how you are now pardoning corrupt parties by way of addressing governments, which is what the Citizens' Party is doing. Do not come here to mix barbecues with merinas; it is one thing to talk about the model of pardon and another very different to make this the axis of your electoral campaign, which is what you have come to do here. I'm finishing up, President. We have been experiencing the judicialization of politics for a long time, which has had to reverse the politicization of justice. We have known this for a long time, but I will say that my wish is that the sentence be acquittal because there has been no crime of sedition; among other things, that is the only thing that would help re-establish coexistence in Catalonia and give us a way to dialogue. [[applause]] It is what the polls say that 80% of Catalans and Catalans want.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u225	Mr. Mena, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u226	I'm done, President. This is also what the bases and many mayors of the Socialist Party of Catalonia want. Do not, Socialists, make these elections the second round you want to reach an agreement with Citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u227	Thank you, Mr. Mena. Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, today we would not have to be holding this debate if during the last parliamentary term the amendment of the People's Group had been adopted, in which we called for the prohibition by law of pardon for crimes of rebellion and sedition. [[Applauds]] Welcome, Mr Ortega, to a proposal from the People's Party. An amendment which was put forward to a proposal by the Socialist Group which pursued the same objective for the crimes of corruption and gender-based violence, but did not come forward because that initiative was blocked for more than a year in the Committee on Justice chaired by a Member of the Socialist Group. And it was precisely at the beginning of its proceedings that the then spokesman for the Socialist Group said something that should be remembered today. He said that his proposal was a manifestation of the total rejection of certain offences by society that should be excluded from the right of grace, and that the sentences of conviction in such cases should be enforced inexorably. For that is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen, that by legal amendment or without it the right of grace does not apply to these cases and that those convicted of rebellion or sedition serve the sentence imposed in the sentences in an inexorable manner. Because, ladies and gentlemen, where would the reasons for justice, fairness or public convenience be required to pardon those who commit the most serious crimes against public order and against our Constitution and therefore also against all Spaniards? Above all, how could these reasons be motivated against those who do not show the slightest sign of repentance but who, on the contrary, feel proud of their actions and are in favour of recommitting them? Well, no way, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this motion does not imply any disrespect or intend to interfere with the judiciary as the Government told us last week. Do you know what an interference with the judiciary is? Openly ask for pardon in the middle of an instruction as Mr.Iceta and Mr.Cunillera did. [[Applauds]] Do you know what a lack of respect for the judiciary is? To ask that the judgment not compromise the dialogue in Catalonia, as Mr Zapatero did; that is an intolerable interference with the independence of the Supreme Court. The courts are thus not respected, they are respected by preserving their independence, obeying their resolutions and ensuring that their sentences are complied with, which is precisely what this motion calls for and why we are going to support it. And don't tell me that to talk about pardons first there has to be a firm sentence and that the court itself can also ask them, that we already know that, ladies and gentlemen. Supporting this initiative, we don't turn anyone into a victim. A person who challenges the law in democracy is never a victim but solely responsible for the consequences arising from the violation of the law. [[Applauds]] So stop identifying law enforcement with revenge or repression; that's all right. [[Applauds]] Look, the law in democracy is always an instrument of freedom and equality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the law which equals everyone, which protects everyone and which also obliges everyone, also in Catalonia, because when you hear this, Mrs Nogueras, that the law obliges everyone, what do you think?, that everyone refers to everyone else? But what kind of democracy is this, ladies and gentlemen, but what amendment have you tabled? And what is exceptional about courts acting when the law is violated? Is that repression in democracy? No, ladies and gentlemen, that is neither repression nor exceptional, that is normal, that has a name, that in democracy is justice; that is what we are talking about, justice, revenge or repression. [[Applauds]] Do you know what would be abnormal? The abnormal and exceptional thing is that in the face of an illegal act, justice does not act and that the act goes unpunished. Nor do I allow you to continue to speak in this rostrum, in the Congress of Deputies, the seat of national sovereignty, of political prisoners, questioning our rule of law and democracy, which is one of the most assured in the world. [[Applauds]] Look, no one has been judged here for his ideas or for exercising his rights but for allegedly criminal actions and for wanting to break the unity of Spain with contempt for any rule that does not serve that purpose, as the Constitutional Court said. So it's good to insult our rule of law. Let us be serious, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not that some groups call for the exclusion of the possibility of the right of grace for those convicted of the crimes of rebellion and sedition, the problem lies in the equidistance and passivity with which the Government has been acting before those who intend to continue openly challenging the law and constitutional order and call for the breaking of chains and civil disobedience if the sentence is condemnatory. The problem is that some want to turn Catalonia into a lawless territory to impose a rupturist project, and that is incompatible with democracy and our rule of law. Because let us not forget, and with that I conclude, Madam President, that the secessionists are not only challenging our unity and territorial integrity, they are also pushing the law and thereby the pillar of all democracy. That's why law and justice have to win, that's why penalties have to be served. And now all you need to know is which side you're going to be on. [[Pointing out to the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-A woman Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u229	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, Mr Bal, seeing today's debate and the one you had last week, it is clear that you do not care very much about the question of pardon. If that were the case, if they really cared about the pardon, they would have brought to this House a bill to amend that law; moreover, they would have accepted the amendment of VOX. But you don't mind talking about pardon. What you are doing is using this initiative to continue with your policy and your strategy of confrontation and confrontation to which you so accustomed have us. [[Applauds]] Because, lords of Citizens, lords of Citizens, you live out of conflict and rift, and when that tension, when that conflict comes down, you need to revive it because you only remain in the rift and confrontation; there alone you find your raison d'être. And they don't care to use the confrontation between territories, to use Catalonia or to use for confrontation and confrontation a feminist manifestation or the march of the LGTBI pride, anything worth facing and creating crisp. [[Applauds]] And of course, today you have touched Catalonia and you have to talk about pardons, about supposed pardons, because yes, Mr Bermudez de Castro, you have to remember what the law says, of course! Look, in order for there to be a pardon there has to be a conviction and there isn't, there has to be a final and there isn't, a petition for pardon that isn't and a report from the sentencing court that isn't. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: Iceta]] And there isn't, because there's no sentence, Mr. Bal, no sentence. Leave the policy of the future and talk about the present. [[Applauds]] But of course, you, ladies and gentlemen, prefer to move in that, in the assumptions, in the futurable, because you have nothing to offer right now to the citizens of our country, you have become a useless political party, so useless that in Catalonia you won the autonomous elections and renounced being a government. [[Applauds]] No government or opposition, because here's the one who won the election, leaving Catalonia. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And look, I don't know if you're conscious... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent and respect the speaker's word. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last speech of this House. [[Mr. Hervías Chirosa: And from the Legislature]] I beg your silence, please. [[Mr Girauta Vidal points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u232	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you, Mr Bal, are aware of the gravity and irresponsibility of this initiative and what you are asking for in it. They are asking that this House, the Legislature, make a pronouncement, no more or less than a statement in the form of a motion of the Congress of Deputies about the consequences of a sentence that has not yet been handed down and that is in the midst of deliberation, one of the most important sentences that will have the democratic history of our country and you, you..... are pretending that the Legislature will rule on a decision that is only for the Judiciary. But it is more, it is that it has not yet pronounced itself. [[Applauds]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: Iceta]] But one wonders that, at best, that is what you are trying to do; at best, what you want to do is generate and promote a social and political debate to try to ensure that the Supreme Court abides and makes a judgment that is what you have been talking about and telling us in this House for a long time. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr. Bal. Mr. Bal, you have already handed down the verdict of the trial. I'm going to read to you last week's Journal of Sessions, I'm going to read textually what you, Mr. Bal, told the minister: '... the trial has already been held and we've all seen it on television. We have seen the evidence and there is no one in this country who understands that the sentence will be entirely acquittal.' Mr. Bal, interference, pressure, conditioning or disturbance? That's what you've been saying. [[Applauds]] Mr. Bal, it's not good to bring personal frustrations to this Congress. [[A honourable Member: Well!-Applause]] And let me conclude by mentioning some of the allusions. Mr Bermudez de Castro, may you speak of respect for justice! Fernández Díaz, on the leaked recordings: This is what the prosecution tunes you. We make a management. Is this the way you have to respect justice? [[Applauds]] Or Mr. Cosidó, who I think has already removed the WhatsApp from the mobile phone, because he said: Don't worry, we're going to control the Supreme from behind. Mr. Cosidó! Is that how you respect justice? You can't talk about respect for justice because whenever you've been able to, you've tried to get involved in it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u233	Mr. Sicilia, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u234	I'll be done right away. Mr. Mena, do you know why there is no progressive government? That you are more concerned about the photo than we can do for the citizens. [[Mr Mena Arca gives himself several pats on the cheek with his hand.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group]] The picture is all they care about. And what a time those who asked for light and stenographers at meetings and until they were streamed and now you're just worried about the photo! [[A Member of Parliament: The photo!- Rumors]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u235	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u236	I'm done. Mr Bal, we cannot accept the proposal you have made to us at the last minute. [[Several Members: Oh!-Laughter]] You know why? Because when I heard it from Mr. Rivera, I remembered a song by Vetusta Morla, a song that says, 'You'll have to come up with a way out. There's no more rudder in the drift.' Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, stood up.-Rumores.-Mr Hervías Chirosa spoke words that were not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u237	Ladies, please! Mr Bal, for the sake of indicating whether you accept any of the amendments, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u238	I said this at the beginning of my speech: we are not going to accept either of the two amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Before going to the vote, I would like to remind all the honourable Members, all the Members of this House, or to inform, if they do not know it, of the content of Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, which states very clearly that no images can be recorded or taken of the sessions of the organs of the House, a prohibition which is also in force in the areas annexed to the Chamber which are intended for the private use of Members. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u240	Before we go to the polls... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to call to order any particular Member, so I would ask you, please, to remain silent. Before going to the polls we will proceed to the reading of two institutional statements, one in support of the Congress of Deputies to the installation of the 30-metre telescope in La Palma, whose reading will be done by the secretary first, and a second that will read by the second secretary, of solidarity with all people affected by the depression isolated at high levels or cold drop occurred in the Spanish Levant and of recognition of the work carried out by those who have participated in the emergency devices in the affected areas. [[DAMAGE]] Secretary first, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u241	The island of La Palma, with the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory of the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, was selected in 2016 as an alternative place for the installation of the Telescope of Thirty Metros, in case it could not be built in Mauna Kea Canarias could host the one that will be the largest telescope in the northern hemisphere for many decades. [[TMT]] [[Hawaii]] The TMT is an exceptional project, of genuine scientific-technological avant-garde and absolute world reference both by its material and human means. The presence in the Canary Islands of the TMT and its international team would be a great step in the strategy of our archipelago to promote cooperative relations with other countries, deepening in its scientific-technical projection. This project will bring top-level scientific advances to the world and, specifically to palm and canary society, multiple socio-economic and cultural benefits, offering current and future generations a unique opportunity to train and work for decades in leading areas of science and technology. The Congress of Deputies declares its unanimous support for the installation of TMT at the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory, in the municipality of Puntagorda. The natural conditions of the islands and the support of their institutions combined with the scientific and technological capacity of this telescope will allow the development of a unique and exceptional science in the Canary Islands, which will receive wide international recognition and consolidate our archipelago as a meeting place for world science. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u242	Thank you very much. - INSTITUTIONAL DECLARATION OF SOLIDARITY WITH ALL PERSONS AFFECTED BY THE ISLAND DEPRESSION IN HIGH LEVELS OR FRY GOT ACCOMPLISHED IN THE SPANISH LEVEL AND OF RECOGNITION TO THE WORK DESIGNED BY WHICH THEY HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE EMERGENCY DEVICES IN THE AREAS AFFECTED. [[DAMAGE]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u243	Secretariat Monday.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u244	Institutional declaration of solidarity with all persons affected by the depression isolated at high levels or cold drop in the Spanish Levante and of recognition of the work carried out by those who have participated in emergency arrangements in the affected areas. [[DAMAGE]] Over the past week, Spain is facing a new episode of isolated depression at high levels, a high-layer air-packaging that has consequences such as torrential rains, low temperatures and strong winds. [[DAMAGE]] We have seen all these days, with the terrible images coming from different Spanish provinces, the effects of this phenomenon. Seven people have lost their lives. In addition to the tragic fatalities, at least 3,500 neighbours have been evacuated, rivers, roadblocks and severe damage to homes, commercial premises, vehicles and farms have been flooded. For this reason, the Congress of Deputies expresses, first of all, its solidarity with all the people affected by the terrible damage caused by the depression isolated at high levels or cold drop in the Spanish Levant. [[DAMAGE]] Secondly, their admiration and recognition of the devices of the Armed Forces, Security Forces and Bodies, Fires, Civil Protection and volunteers who have intervened in emergency operations in the areas affected by the damage caused by this phenomenon and have assisted and protected those who have suffered its effects. Thirdly, the need to take all appropriate measures to alleviate, reverse and compensate for the disasters caused and thus contribute to the recovery of the affected areas, as well as all actions that promote the prevention of future disasters of this kind. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the House and from the Government in office, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u246	...because voting, ladies and gentlemen, can never be a crime. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 3 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 266 plus 3 telematics votes, 269; abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u248	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u249	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal by the Basque Parliamentary Group to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. [[EAJPNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 3 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 311 plus 3 telematics votes, 314; against, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u250	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u251	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal to alleviate the damage caused by floods and other disasters. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendment and Amendment No 3 of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Baldoví]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes cast; 335 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u252	It was adopted unanimously. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) on the recognition of the gratuity of the first cycle of child education. [[File number 162/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u253	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We CanIn Common We CanGalicia in Common, regarding the recognition of the gratuitousness of the first cycle of Child Education. The initiative is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 177 against 6 abstentions 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u254	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u255	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent questioning. Motion for an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We Can In Common We CanGalicia in Common, concerning the need to declare the state of climate emergency in Spain, in the face of the serious impacts that climate change is having in our country, and with the aim of urgently arbitrating mitigation and adaptation measures in the face of the climate and ecological crisis in which we are immersed. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, Citizens and Confederal Groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 311 against, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u256	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group, on the evolution of public accounts and its impact on the well-being of Spain. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u257	Motion for an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group into the evolution of public accounts and their impact on the well-being of the Spaniards. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and VOX parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour 147 against 188.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u258	It's rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON INDULTS GRANTED TO SEPARATIST LEGISLATIVES. [[File number 173/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u259	Motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the granting of pardons to separatist leaders. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 146 against, 186 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-17-CD190917.u260	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifty minutes of the night.
