ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u1	The meeting was resumed. The Plenary of the Congress of Deputies meets to comply with article 99.3 of the Spanish Constitution and to submit to a second vote the proposal of candidate don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón for the Presidency of the Government. The session will begin with a debate prior to the vote, which - and given that the Constitution imposes a period of 48 hours - will not take place in any case before 2:25 p.m., as I announced at the previous plenary session. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes and the parliamentary groups for a period of five minutes each to determine their position. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government in office]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. Today the proposal for the inauguration of the elections on 28 April ends and with it closes the order I had the honour to receive from the head of State, and I very much regret to note that the parliamentary blockade persists. Ladies and gentlemen, I stated from the first day of my speech that my purpose was to form a government, a progressive government, with a premise: to do everything possible to ensure that the investiture of the Presidency of the Government of Spain did not depend exclusively on independence formations. I have repeated this with insistence throughout the investiture debate and have acted accordingly since the first minute. To achieve this, I needed, first, an agreement with which I called'my preferred partner' in this investiture, the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can and, secondly, the abstention of at least one of the parties that is called a constitutionalist. The sum of the seats of the Socialist Party, of the United Podemos and of the other groups open to an understanding - to which I deeply appreciate their complicity - the Basque Nationalist Party, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and also Compromís, reached the figure of 173 votes; to 3, therefore, of the absolute majority of the House. It was therefore necessary to abstain from any other group, and there were only two options: the abstention of some independenceist force, and on this issue I would like to acknowledge the manifest will of the Republican Left - in exchange for nothing - to facilitate the inauguration of the Presidency of the Government, or the abstention of the conservative groups, which are self-proclaimed at all constitutional times. If the People's Party or Citizens abstained, the value of independenceist votes was no longer decisive. I wanted to show, Mr. Married, Mr. Rivera, that what they were so concerned about was in your hand. You had that key, and if anything has been shown, it was only a pretext for being able to accuse us for the next four years of an investiture conditioned by independent parties. But, in addition to achieving the abstention of at least one of the conservative bench forces, as I was telling you, there was a precondition, which was an agreement with the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos. I must say, first of all, that, among leftist forces, the investiture should have been guaranteed from the very beginning, because the results of 28 April and 26 May made clear the will expressed by the Spanish people that the Government should be led by the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Any sensible person knows that this does not mean a blank check, and it is not because to govern we have to pass some budgets and we have to pass laws and with the current parliamentary arithmetic this requires agreements. The government would have always needed the United We can, not only for the investiture, but also to rule for the next four years. The agreement, however, has not been possible, and I will tell you at the outset that I regret it for two reasons. The first, because a government that is important to Spain will not come forward. And the second, for the historic opportunity that fades for the incorporation for the first time in the history of our democracy of a left-wing force to the left of the Socialist Party in the Government of Spain. I'm so sorry. But why wasn't it possible? I always knew that reconciling within a government two cultures and two traditions as different as ours would not be easy. That is why we proposed a formula that governs countries other than the European level, such as Portugal and Denmark: governments of the Social Democrats with external support from the formations to their left. In exchange for what, Mr. Churches? In exchange for a program, in exchange for making policies that would benefit the people who need it most, as we have done over the past 12 months of cooperation. However, I soon warned that the government programme was a very secondary issue for you, Mr. Iglesias, and therefore the proposal, ladies and gentlemen, was rejected. I proposed after that the involvement of the United Nations We can give, in addition to the programmatic level, in relevant responsibilities of the Administration, although not within the Council of Ministers and, as you know, it was also a rejected proposal. I then explored the possibility of incorporating qualified figures from the United Nations environment We can join the Council of Ministers, in line with what I have always defended and with what I also practiced when I was elected President of the Government by this House twelve months ago after a motion of censure: the incorporation of talent through independent profiles in the Council of Ministers, a proposal that was again rejected. I then stated that I considered that the presence of the leader of the Union Podemos, Mr. Iglesias, was the main stumbling block for reaching an agreement, and with his resignation we then came to the only possibility demanded by the Union Podemos from the beginning: a coalition government based on an integral negotiation, as they pointed out. A comprehensive negotiation began this weekend prior to the investiture session. All of you have witnessed the rest of the process practically in real time in this House. Before the disagreement reaches its final consequences, let me make four observations. The first finding is that there are great coincidences in the social, ecological, feminist and labor program for the agreement with Unidad Podemos. Our proposals to combat precariousness and unemployment, to defend young people in their access to housing, to combat child poverty, to protect pensions, to mitigate and adapt to climate change, our proposals to lead the technological revolution in an inclusive way or to defend the social dimension of the European project were never the problem. I insist, there were never any program problems that would prevent the agreement. In meetings and interventions in this rostrum, Mr Iglesias has not made a single proposal that was not in the investiture programme that I presented two days ago in the morning. Therefore, the problem was never the program. Second finding. If the problem is not the program, what is the problem? This is what Mr. Iglesias said here in this rostrum: the ministries. Last Monday, in this very rostrum, he claimed that he would not be humiliated by the Socialist Party's proposals. Just a few hours before he had sent us his own, they already know them. We had heard Mr. Iglesias say that he wanted to enter the government to control us and, when we learned his proposals, we realized that he wanted to enter the government to control the government. It sent us a proposal which assumed that it controlled 100 per cent of revenue through the Ministry of Finance and 50 per cent of expenditure. If we exempt budgets such as security, that is, Interior and Defence, the UN proposal We can - which we remember is the fourth parliamentary force of the House - assume that the formation of Mr. Iglesias, with 25% of the coalition's seats, controlled 80% of the government's social spending. These days, ladies and gentlemen, we have made successive proposals thinking that the United Nations We can participate in the coalition government and that that government is a viable, effective government, a functioning government. Given the challenges ahead, I believe that it seemed sensible to have a plural government, but with a single coherent and cohesive leadership. The proposal to the United We can start from the creation of a vice-presidency centered on one of the main hearts of the political project that I had the honour to present to this House, which is that of social justice. This vice-presidency would depend directly on social welfare policies; important policies for a progressive project such as the one we want to embody, such as the fight against poverty, the National Unit System and social services, to name a few. Along with this we have offered the incorporation of three ministers or ministers of the United Nations We can of great political relevance for a progressive force. First, the ministry of health and consumption. As I said in my investiture speech, the goal is to enhance one of the most admired and envied systems in the world, with important challenges ahead, as I set out in that speech. Secondly, a ministry of housing and social economy. As you know, housing is one of the main barriers to emancipation and social justice in our country. And finally, a ministry of equality, because feminism is capital and is at the heart of a political project that calls itself progressive. Therefore, four portfolios of deep social content and one of them with the rank of vice-presidency of the Government of Spain. As you know, unfortunately, the proposal was rejected. This is the last proposal of many others that have been happening over the last few days, proposals that we understood to be areas of interest to the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos and to those who had qualified people to carry out the task; and, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that they had contributed and provided a great service to the country. In each of these proposals - many of them previously demanded by the United Nations We can negotiate and subsequently dismissed by themselves when they had already been accepted by the Socialist Party - we have shown a noble will for agreement. From development cooperation to the 2030 Agenda, child poverty, the social economy, the demographic challenge, universities, culture, science, agriculture... Proposals for the formation of a coalition government that Mr. Iglesias rejected one after the other. Ladies and gentlemen, never before since the restoration of democracy in our country had it gone so far in this area between two leftist forces; nor from another political sign. Never. I know of no precedent in which a leader feels humiliated at the offer of a vice-presidency of the Government or a ministry of the Government of Spain. Does anyone consider it humiliating to be vice president of the social rights government? Is it humiliating to be Minister of Health and Consumer Affairs of the Government of Spain? Is it humiliating to be in housing and social economy? Is it humiliating to be a minister or equality minister of a progressive government? Mr. Churches, it may not be what you wanted, but we have offered you a respectful, correct and sensible proposal. [[Prolonged applause]] A more than reasonable offer, bearing in mind that in their training, as a result of their youth, there is no management experience at the state level and that governments by definition must be executive and compact. The second point, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is no humiliation. There is an offer from a social vice-presidency of the Government of Spain and from various ministries of deep social reach. Ladies and gentlemen, the third observation is that I would like - and the Spaniards have supported it - to preside over the Spanish Government, but not at any price or any government. I must be convinced that I lead a plural, diverse team, but marching in a single direction, and I must be sure that each head of a department has the capacity to manage it. You can't put the public finance, the Spanish money, in the hands of someone who's never managed a budget. I may be right or wrong, like anyone else, but I try to form a government of competent people capable of running their departments for the benefit of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]] And all that happens to him, Mr. Iglesias, to silence the cry of those who from within his organization and from outside his organization ask for an agreement, is to make a proposal in time of discount before this second vote of investiture, saying that they want a ministry of work to repeal the labor reform and raise the interprofessional minimum wage, as if he did not know that the repeal of the labor reform and the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage depend on an organ that is collegiate, the Government of Spain, and also on its lords, the Legislative Power. [[Applauds]] It goes on, Mr. Iglesias, without wishing to understand the need for a government, a government, a coherent and cohesive government, not two governments in a government, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] On Monday, Mr. Iglesias said that if I did not reach an agreement such as he demanded, - and I quote textually - I would never be president of the government. I will tell you something, Mr. Iglesias: if to be President of the Government I have to renounce my principles, if I have to form a Government knowing that it will not be useful to my country, then you are right, I will not be President now. [[Several Members: Oh! Oh!]] I've given up very valuable things for myself before I give up my convictions. If you force me to choose between the Presidency of the Government of Spain that would not serve Spain or choose my convictions, I have no doubt, I choose my convictions, I choose to protect Spain. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government in office, on the ground]] To rule, Mr. Churches, is to tread firm ground. To govern is to pass from not representing us to want to represent many, for one purpose, that is to be useful to the citizenry and, above all, to those who suffer the most. To rule is to face reality. The useful left is the one that wins and serves people and changes things. What's the use of a left that loses even when it wins? What are you going to do, Mr. Churches? Is this what you want for Spain, just because things haven't come out the way you tried to impose them? Is that your threat? Are you going to unite, even with abstention, your vote on the right and the right in order to prevent, again, a progressive government? Are you going to do it again, Mr. Churches? [[Applauds]] Fourth finding. Mr Rivera, Mr Casado, I belong to a party proud of its 140 years of life; a party that does not run away from reality, that aspires to transform it and, therefore, we are a party of government; a party that works day by day from thousands of mayors and autonomous governments throughout the country; a party that cohesives Spain, because it is present throughout the territory, Mr Casado: in rural areas, in urban areas, in Catalonia, in Euskadi, in the two Castiles, in the archipelagos. I could not be a candidate to preside over my country's government if my party was not able to have a single councillor of more than 2,600 elected in Euskadi, Mr Rivera. I would not dare to be a candidate to preside over the government if I had my parliamentary strength in the second autonomous community with the most population in the country, Mr Casado, Catalonia, a single Member of the 48 deputies to elect. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to be loyal to my principles. I have fulfilled the task of both the head of State and the citizenry, on 28 April, to submit to this debate of investiture. It is an honour to have done so on behalf of the more than seven and a half million Spaniards who voted for the Socialist Party on 28 April. But it is also an honour and pride on behalf of many others who, from other ideological preferences, want government in Spain. And at this point let me turn directly to the whole of the citizenry, to those who look at us in their homes to tell them the following: Spain has overcome the worst crises of its history together and will do so again this time. Spain has united the worst forecasts and predictions, and will do so again this time. Spain has won together the greatest challenges and challenges, and will do so again this time. Whatever happens today, whatever happens in this vote, Spain can count on the Socialist Party for that, to unite society and never to confront it. It is on his behalf, as the most voted force on 28 April, in which I ask you for your confidence to be invested as President of the Government, the greatest honor I can assume as a citizen, as a Spanish and as a Democrat. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u4	Thank you, Madam President. And when Pedro Sánchez woke up, the purple elephant with a yellow bow was still there. How The Monterosso dinosaur, Mr Sánchez, two days later there follow your partners, the only ones you have always sought, at all times and everywhere: We can, the radical left and the independenceist nationalists. And in the meantime, the show they've given has been bochronous. Instead of taking advantage of these three months to reach a civil agreement, they have subjected Spain to a soot of vanities that we do not deserve. And at this point, we still don't know who has lost the bargain of that Persian market of ministries and vice-presidencies. They've had the Spaniards glued to the mobile all morning, like an update of that Spain of the transistors happily passed; and, worst of all, for nothing. If I told you before yesterday that his Government was the story of a great vacuum, his investiture is already the story of a great failure; and its consequences are his sole responsibility, as he said in this very rostrum three years ago in another investiture session. Mr. Sánchez, for this trip, there was no need for coffers, no grandiose speeches, no gospels of goodism, no cancelled interviews, no cross-communications. It's all been an impassioned struggle of power with its preferred partners for fifteen years, when they built this great health cordon to the People's Party. And they didn't care about ideas, not politics, not even Spain; only charges and charges to duplicate an already hypertrophied government. What would they do to fit in here? Maybe take it to the table of the most blue tachygraphers? They have shown that they are incapable of pacting to build - they are only allied to destroy, as in the motion of censure - and we have moved from creating a Frankenstein government - as his predecessor said - to a parody of the Young Frankenstein that, if it were not so lethal for Spain, would only produce hilarity. Because, Mr Sánchez, you only agree or try to agree always with those who want to abolish the parliamentary monarchy, with those who see the Constitution as a lock, with those who relativize the criminal vigour of ETA and call for the independence of Catalonia or the annexation of Navarre to an imaginary Euskal Herria, who justify the dictatorships of Cuba or Venezuela or defend limit private property or law. Mr. Sánchez, did you make up for being a part of that eclipse of Spanish democratic history? As Maura said in a similar situation: For me, let it not remain. We have held hands for months to give stability to Spain in the budgetary, territorial and social area with eleven state pacts that we continue to maintain in this rostrum. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes, yes!-Applause]] We haven't fooled anyone since the beginning. [[Several Members: No!]] We went to the meetings when we were called; we told the public - not in offices but publicly - what our position was; we were responsible with our compatriots, but you demanded that we extend a blank cheque to you, and we cannot accept that. But not only for the party; nor for the 3 million unemployed who today see themselves worried - the same day an EPA is published that says that the data of the deseasonalized unemployment are the worst for nine years - that you were marketed to repeal the labor reform that has created 2 million jobs thanks to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We can't admit it to them either. Nor can we sign that blank cheque for the middle classes who see their plans revalidated to raise them 6 billion euros in all the tax sections in the draft general budgets they had agreed with Podemos, or for the families who fear that they will end the freedom of choice of their children's education, or the freedom of choice of their children's health, or for the elderly who are saddened to see that their effort for the transition is now questioned, or above all for our children, that tomorrow they will be ashamed to study this investiture session as one of the most regrettable pages of the recent democratic history of Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, you can't pretend to keep playing Russian roulette with our future and ask us to put the bullet on. We will continue to look for a project that promotes coexistence and encounter; a project that defends the Constitution, equality and freedom of the Spaniards; a project that strengthens the link between generations, between territories and between accents, that guarantees a State that serves the welfare of society and not a society that has to serve the welfare of the State or of those who intend to direct it. We have already seen that his position is not as solid as he wants to make believe, but much more fragile than he thinks. You have to face reality and choose what you want to give up: whether you give up the center or give up the extreme. You must give up making separatism a priority ally and radicalism a preferred partner, as you said here again today. I told you the day before yesterday: you and I have a common task ahead, which is to widen the central space of moderation and make it so great that again we can both win in it. [[Applauds]] But, to do so, you must already give up being a government in a new system and assume that it is better to be opposition within the 1978 system than together, you and we, we build. Only then can we meet again the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and only then can we trust you, but this week has made it clear that you are not willing to do so. For now we still don't know who you really are, but whatever it is, you're much less than four days ago. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you prefer to continue in your escape, in your resistance manual, since the good government manual does not yet have anyone to write it to you. [[Applauds]] He prefers to continue in the role that his political career has assigned him, but we are neither a tool for his theatrical role nor are we in the Federal Committee of the Socialist Party; where we are in the Parliament of an old nation of five centuries of history, under the statues of the Catholic Kings, before a shield and a flag, which demand respect on the part of those who aspire to preside over it. That is why, although you and your party deserve our respect, your candidacy and your project do not deserve our support. We owe only Spain and its Government would be a threat to its future. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u6	Quite a spectacle, Mr. Sanchez. Quite a show, wasting time, hope and passion for many Spaniards who today will be watching with amazement what you and your band have tied us up with. [[Protests]] Yes, your band, because you have treated Spain as a loot these days, and Spain is not a loot or ministerial portfolio to be distributed; it is our nation, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Because the Sanchez plan was this, it was to get to the end and split the loot. What's the problem with all this? That the band hasn't agreed on how to split the loot. Spain paralyzed by a ministry, Mr. Sánchez. Is it not sad that a country is paralyzed and blocked for three months because you and Mr. Churches do not agree on a ministry? That's reality, that's reality. How can a candidate like you, candidate Sanchez, be able to get the majority out, rule, make budgets, if you don't agree on the name and person for a ministry? How are you going to manage Spain's economy? How will they create credibility in Europe? How are you going to join forces with other countries when it takes if you don't get clear between yourselves? How are you going to manage this, Mr. Sanchez? You're a band, Mr. Sanchez's band. [[Rumors]] They have tried to distribute Spain as a loot, but I tell you one thing: no matter how much it extends the scene, no matter how much it extends the theater - because this will continue - I guess that the show, gentlemen, will continue; it will continue as a summer colebrón, dividing ministries, insulting yourself as you have done among yourselves, but the Spaniards do not deserve this show nor a government with this band nor, of course, a president like you. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, many Spaniards will ask themselves: and what have they talked about? Have they fought for whether Spain is a nation of nations or a nation of free and equal citizens? No, they have not fought, because you do not believe in the nation of free and equal citizens; you believe in the nation of nations as Churches and their nationalist partners. Have you been fighting for taxes? No, if you're addicts to tax, you socialists, we can and your partners. Have they fought over economic models? No, if you have the same economic model: raise taxes to the middle class, crush families and drive investors away. They have not fought for politics, they care about politics; they have only fought for armchairs. [[Applauds]] Did we fight Mr. Sanchez over the territorial model? No, if it is the same, concessions to the nationalists and aggravations for the rest of the Spanish; more money, the judges, more prebendas for the nationalist or independentist lords and worse for the rest of the Spanish who want equality and freedom. So you, in the scene or show you're giving us today, just separate a ministry, separate the ego, the ego that basically doesn't fit you in the chair and that's why you haven't been able to agree. Spain, Mr Sánchez, deserves to see a government, whatever nature, set in motion. Disagree of the policies you want to do with Podemos, disagree of your territorial model, disagree of raising taxes, disagree of you and Podemos in many things, but you have the king's obligation and mandate to form government. You are not the king, you are Pedro Sánchez, the candidate Sánchez, proposed by the king, had a mandate and failed, failed because of the inability to be serious and agree. In Andalusia there is government. Do you know why there is government in Andalusia? [[Protests]] Because two different parties, with different projects... [[Several Members: Three! Three!]] [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u8	Thank you. They're nervous. Do you know why there's government? Because with different projects we know how to govern, and the budgets of Andalusia have just come out. [[Applauds]] You're incapable of making a budget. I agree with one thing Mr Sánchez said today. You said that Spain, in spite of everything, will always go ahead. I agree, despite the band of Sánchez, the government of Sánchez and President Sánchez, this is a great nation, this is a great country that is going to exceed the mandate of his government, form it today, form it tomorrow, in September, in August or whenever. [[rumors]] When you launch that government there will be an opposition, there will be a party and a country project that will represent all those who do not feel represented by the Sánchez gang, all those who are not sectarians, all the moderate, liberal people, who strive and work and who simply want to have the reward of letting her live in peace, without sectarianism, Mr Sánchez. So, to all those Spaniards who are worried and sick of the spectacle we have seen, who know there is hope, that this country will overcome as it has overcome many problems, in this case a government that does not deserve. Mr Sánchez, I had it clear before April 28th and so I told both my voters and our colleagues, I told them that you were a bad president for Spain, but I wonder today, with the spectacle that Sánchez has given and the failure in his investiture, does anyone sensible think Sánchez can be a good president for Spain? [[Mrs Martínez Seijo: Media Spain!-Protests]] I am quite clear, Mr Sánchez, that many Spaniards believe that you are a bad president for Spain. The other day I told him that I was opposed to the Sánchez plan - and I am still opposed -, that I was opposed to the Sánchez band - and we are still opposed - but today, Mr Sánchez, I say to him that Spain deserves more and does not deserve a president like you. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I ask you to reflect, and it is if you believe that in the last few weeks you have ever referred to us with the respect that a government partner should deserve. I'm just asking you to think about it. I think you have forgotten that you are President of the Government, among other things, because we believed ourselves to be a motion of censure that you did not believe. With 85 deputies, with the worst election result in the recent history of the Socialist Party, we support them in exchange for nothing to be government in this country. I think that's why at least we would deserve respect in his words and in his tone towards us. [[Applauds]] It is very difficult to negotiate in forty-eight hours what has not been negotiated in eighty days, it is very difficult to negotiate a counter-clock coalition government and in real time filtering it all to the media. [[Rumors]] I think it is clear that this should not be done. [[Applauds]] When we saw a proposal document that we delivered to them filtered by their vice president, we could not believe that they had edited the document to change the word 'proposals' to'requirements'. I believe that a government negotiation deserves, at least, not to be tacky. [[Applauds]] They told us: Mr. Iglesias, your program is too radical. And we said to them: We will not make any radical programmatic demands, we will only demand that the Spanish Constitution of 1978 cease to be a wet paper and that the social rights that are collected are guaranteed and developed through public policies. They said to us: We will never share with you the management of state ministries. And we said, "Okay. We were told: Your position on Catalonia is incompatible with being part of the government. And we gave them assurances that there would be no red lines and we would assume the leadership of your party on this issue. You put up a personal veto and many - also from your party - told me: You're trying to humiliate yourself. Look, this is exactly the same to me. And we said to them, "We accept your personal veto, even if it has no precedent in the democratic history of Spain, even if it has no precedent in the political history of any country, and all we ask of you was proportional participation in the government according to the votes we had. We also renounce proportional participation. And today, following the unilateral break-up of the negotiations, we have made them a proposal in which the only thing we are asking for is competence, not armchairs. Competences to ensure that there is free education in this country from 0 to 3 years. [[Applauds]] Competencies to ensure that dependent families receive support. Powers to ensure equal pay for men and women in Spain. Competences to ensure that there are equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity permits. Powers to raise the minimum wage and to reverse the most damaging aspects of the labour reform of the People's Party, according - as you proposed - to the social partners. Competences to curb health privatization, so that there is finally a law of euthanasia. Competences for science and innovation funding to reach 2% of GDP in this legislature. Skills to lower university fees and increase the number of scholarships. We didn't ask for anything else. [[Applauds]] I'll make you a new proposal from here. After listening to his speech I received the message from someone very relevant from his party, from a person with a lot of moral authority in the Socialist Party who said to me: I have heard the speech of Pedro Sánchez, ask him to give you the competences in active employment policies. For I am making the recommendation that someone from your party has made to me: we give up the Ministry of Labour if you give us the powers to direct active employment policies in this country. [[Rumors]] The decision... [[The rumors continue.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u12	My confederal group had decided today to abstain and shake hands with you so that in the next few days we will be able to do what you did not want to do for three long months: negotiate a government with respect for the partner. We have made a new proposal, we are still in time to save this investiture session and have a coalition government. [[Rumors]] If you do not accept our proposal, I will again shake your hand; do not take the Spaniards to elections, negotiate with us from respect. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u13	Thank you, Mr. Churches. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rufián, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, a group of freedmen and laguntzailes of Bildu, Mr Iglesias, this fight that you have played here and that you have played these days is not really true. You do not discuss politics, in that you agree, there is even complicity, as has been said in today's first intervention; just grudge at what you want your employee to be because he has not prepared their armchairs, their faggots and their offices in time. We rise to this rostrum on behalf of many Spaniards - probably more than those who voted for us - to tell you that neither today nor in September nor when you agree, we will never, in the end, support the puppet that you want to place at the head of the Government of Spain and against Spain. [[Applauds]] And we will not do it in any case either by action with our vote or by omission with a abstention, which are the two formulas you have found to move the threads. Why are we going to walk with parliamentary hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen? It's much better, I think much more honest with the Spaniards, with ourselves, and much more effective too, to address the bosses of the popular front today than to waste time arguing with what their employee is going to be. So, ladies and gentlemen, make it clear. Mr Iglesias, we will never, as you can imagine, support a government with Chavista ministers that will lead Spain to the destruction of the middle classes, to the destruction of civil liberties at the hands of the neo-communism that you represent and to the overthrow of the parliamentary monarchy. Mr Rufián, we will never support a government that has obtained the safe conduct of the coup d'Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and that can only serve to continue oppressing Catalans with impunity, as you do; to destroy coexistence and national unity; to pursue the Spanish language, spy on schoolchildren who speak Spanish and, in some cases, we have seen that even to beat them. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and of Bildu, we will never support a government openly desired by separatism and terrorism, as we have seen during these days; a government that will be used to whitewash the criminal history of ETA and to do things that will freeze the blood of many socialists as well; a government that condemns us to continue to endure in this rostrum, decade after decade, the pride of the PNV lords who come to Madrid dressed as statesmen when what they are trying to do is to break the state. [[Applauds]] In short, gentlemen of Podemos, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, of the Basque Nationalist Party and group of liberados and laguntzailes of Bildu, we will never support a government that puts at risk the national unity, the constitutional order, the freedoms of the Spaniards and the prosperity of our homeland. And that is why if you ever manage to place your pawn at the head of the Spanish government, know that we are not going to the loyal opposition; we are going to the frontal and total opposition, to the unmanned opposition to this bullfighter or to any of the bullfighters that you want to place at the head of the Spanish government. And we will do so with all our parliamentary force, and more, we will do so with all the strength of Spanish society and, also, with all the force of the law that we defend. Do not smile because we are very effective in that, as your comrades know that they were sitting on the bench and that today they are in prison. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will neither win nor convince, and you will not do so because that paranoia of megalomaniacs that is separatism - so called Don Miguel de Unamuno - will never be able with the Spanish people. And it seems that in some ways we agree with a few of those who have intervened this morning in this rostrum: in the midst of all their betrayals, in the midst of all their crimes, in the midst of all their spurious interests and their illegitimate objectives, they have no doubt that Spain will prevail. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Rivera, this is a member of the band. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I understand that going with Mr. Abascal is not going in a band, it's going with a commando. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Abascal, I already know that the Spanishman is persecuted in Catalonia!, in fact, as you can see, it's costing me a lot to talk about it! I'm asking you to moderate yourself one more time. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, is that you look at them, look at the right, you are delighted with life and you are applauding us with your ears. [[Several Members: Síí]] In fact, they at this point, if they had to agree, if they had to negotiate, they would have already agreed to the extras. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The only question that needs to be asked is how long, how many months, how many years, all, all - I repeat - the whole left has the flag that has in the logo, we are going to regret, they are going to regret today? How long? They put us in September, the question I ask is, will there be September? Do you know the enormous gesture of responsibility and generosity that our group makes today? Do you think we can do that in September, too? September makes life difficult for all of us, for all of us, and you don't have to be Noam Chomsky to know. It will be very complicated to do politics. Mr Sánchez, it was a mistake the veto on Mr Iglesias, it was a mistake, and I think you know it by now. All he's done is raise the price. Lord Churches, it is a mistake not to accept - I don't care - two, three, four or five ministries; it is a mistake. You have, and I say it with great respect and affection, four years of life, four years of life for four ministries, is extraordinary. Enter the government and prove for four years that they are better! And get it for you in a future general election! They have the ability to do it! [[Applauds]] Of this intransigence we will all regret. Today, Mr. Sánchez, and I'm very sorry, you don't have us where they wanted us, in a no. He gave me the impression that he didn't want us, he gave me the impression that he wanted to put us in the sack of intransigence, of blockage and hatred, maybe I'm wrong, but he doesn't have us. We here today abstain, regardless of what happens, because we are convinced and, above all, a gentleman, our president, candidate and victorious leader in the general elections in Catalonia, who is following him from a cell of eleven square meters in Lledoners. [[Rumors]] If we are making this gesture, the only question is why some of you are not doing it. Mr Sánchez, you will regret having at some point preferred the abstention of Mr Rivera and Mr Married to the presence of Mr Iglesias in a ministry, you will regret. You don't have to be too smart to see it. Mr. Churches, you will regret not taking this opportunity. You'll regret it. I repeat: four years for three or four ministries is extraordinary. And it's not about seeing who explains it better, it's not about seeing who explains it better from now on; it's about getting us all in the same sack, everyone. The only thing you see is to the left losing once more. I'm left-handed and I've been defeating DNA, I've lost my whole life, and today I'm doing it again and it's not for them, it's for us. I should embarrass them. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias - with this I am finished - both have children. You, Mr Sánchez, older and you, Mr Iglesias, smaller. I have one too and it's beautiful. [[Laughter]] I have a friend who has two children, they are called Lluc and Joana, they are very small, and every night on the terrace of his house he taught them the stars and explained the constellations because he knows a lot of stars, in fact, he knows a lot of things. His name is Oriol Junqueras, and he asks us to give him a gift, a book, a book that he has written in his cell, especially in the cell of Soto del Real, a book of stories. It's this book. [[Mr. Rufián Romero shows a book]] I'm gonna give it to both of you. It's the book Oriol Junqueras wrote for months in his Soto del Real cell with the stories he can't explain to his children for almost two years. If he today, if we today are making this gesture of enormous responsibility and generosity simply because we believe that the word can defeat hatred and that the left can win once and for all, I repeat: the only question is why not you. I give it to you, I ask you to read it and to value the time you spend with your children and the defeat we are suffering here today. Thank you very much. [[Mr Rufián Romero gives the book to Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, and Mr Iglesias Turrión]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u17	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the world backwards, not only because of the situation we are living in, but also because, of course, listening to Mr.Abascal paraphrasing Unamuno in defense of his positions is impressive. [[Laughter and applause]] I sincerely hoped that General Patton's maxim would be fulfilled, that of 'The pressure makes diamonds'. I thought that the social and environmental pressure in this House would eventually lead to an investiture, an agreement. And I confess I'm disappointed, sincerely, but I think things have been done as they didn't have to be done. I think the Socialist Party has been late and has allowed too much time to pass; I think it should have sought complicity in another way. Even in last Monday's speech I told you, Mr. candidate, that you had to look for more empathy, more complicity. And what I don't understand either is that you throw in the towel before the last minute. It gave the feeling, so it was said before the press, nothing, an hour ago, before the beginning of this meeting, this plenary, which had already thrown its towel, everywhere. Mr. Churches, I also have to tell you something about assaulting the sky. The sky is conquered from cloud to cloud, occupying one cloud and then another, but the assault is not conquered, at all. You're wrong if you're going to do it like this. And you must also accept that it is true that it is a political force that you have not managed, that you have never been in the government of the State, nor in a very representative way after - successfully and for many years - in autonomous governments. It is also true that it has put forward policies of rupture and tear, which would clash not with the Socialist Party, but with a very large majority in this House. We must therefore also know how to create an image around a political force, to gain positions, to create confidence in institutions, in the social sphere, in the economic sphere, as a country. Your foolishness has been about to cause a bankruptcy, it is not going to be staged here because in the end you two are going to vote abstention, but it has been about to stage a bankruptcy with United Left and with Podemos, as before also had disappointments within your group. I think we need to know what is possible, and I'm going to tell you very sincerely. To think of ministries - now I know not - as ecological transition, with the implications it has in the economic world, in the fiscal sphere, in the field of employment, by a force that has never ruled, sincerely not real; I insist, not real. Or in ministries like Finance, which is the key of the government fan. I am sure you will be able to aspire even to preside over the government in the future, but you must know the strength you have in Parliament and be measured. However, they have not made it easy for them either: until the last day and at the last hour, etc. But everyone here is to blame. Now you draw up a proposal. It seems to me that it was no longer the time, but, listen, welcome be; I said before that you have to try until the last minute. If the problem is that, if the problem in the end is reduced to active employment policies, it seems to me that there is time and there is room for agreement, not here and now, probably, because there will be more to talk about, but, if the problem really is reduced to that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u20	It's funny because now, listening to them, a close collaborator was telling me something and I thought, "What an irony, she's right!" He told me that a few months ago the problem was the rapporteur and that now the problem is the story. [[Laughter]] It's all being reduced to that lately, publishing both sides everything they were doing, saying what their positions were and what they wanted. With this they have tied their hands in order to publicly be able to recede a little in their position. They've been wasting time, thinking they had a strength they didn't actually have. And this end of armchairs, I honestly tell you, has been unfortunate. Is there a joint program? That was the important thing, where to start, what we wanted to see. Is there a joint program? I fear that in many areas certainly not, although in many they will coincide, but a joint programme has not worked on it. This environment creates - let's say - bad scroll - forgiveness for expression - and I know that personal relationships are also difficult, but I refuse to think that we can not create the necessary conditions to save a government before September; it is more, even in August if possible. I believe that we must all try, that we must not throw away the towel and that we must all reflect on how events have developed. Mr. Sanchez, I conclude. Believe me if I tell you that I hoped you would be invested - I tell you sincerely - and our intention - you know - has always been to facilitate that investment. It could not have been because there was no agreement with some indispensable partners, because it must be recognized that Unidad Podemos is an indispensable partner, and without deeper discussions with the rest of the groups. Our yes had it in his pocket, and he knew it, but it is that both have followed a procedure that has not created the necessary conditions. We are going to maintain dialogue and readiness for as long as there is - I hope not - a new electoral call to try to achieve sufficient complicity to form a Government. We offer ourselves in what our experience refers to to help and collaborate. I think we all have to learn from failure and we don't have to give up. Today we will abstain, but with that hope. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u22	Good afternoon. Mr Sánchez, since Tuesday, the 155 reasons we have to vote on are intact and yet, if we may add one: you seem to have confused an investiture debate with a debate of accession to your person. He told us that you were not going to give up your principles; neither are we going to do it. I quoted your words from May 2018: Catalonia has a political problem. You used to say that. Well, today he has a second chance - a second chance that Jordi Turull did not have, who was arrested in the twenty-four hours they mediated between the first and second sessions of his investiture debate - and he is ruining it. The other day you were talking about a problem of coexistence, Mr Sánchez, and what I see is that the problem of coexistence is between you. Let us know when they solve it and, when they do, go talk to the President of the Generalitat. The other day he was unlucky. I believe that you have achieved the full unity of the House in this respect. He also spoke of the supposed Catalan people. That's what he said. The statute, to which he so much likes to refer, says explicitly: The powers of the Generalitat emanate from the people of Catalonia, not from the'supposed Catalan people', and you should know it. He is very unworthy of someone who aspires to lead a government that offers these credentials, which are anti-politics or diplomacy practiced by Josep Borrell. But know that in democracy no vote should seem useless or irrelevant. Ours is not a no that with its attitude has become a non inevitable. Our comrades are political prisoners, but you are a politician imprisoned for your prepotence, and the day you say yes to politics and stop saying that never, ever, to the aspirations of the millions of independenceists, that day you will find us ready to jointly seek the solution that Catalonia needs and expects. I do not know if you will be president today, but tomorrow you will wake up and the independenceists will not have disappeared; we will continue here, like the Monterroso dinosaur. And if you don't despise the outcome of the election, besides wanting to be president, you'll have to know how to be president. He's got two months ahead of him. Don't hide yourself in excuses, in future sentences. If you are president, you are doomed to lead the way for solutions. That's the challenge. We have come - with this I finish - to do politics, as we are doing in each of the Catalan institutions and as we are going to do in Europe, where we have obtained the same representation as you are in Spain. To defend all policies, those of progress by promoting equality and betting on improving the quality of life of citizens, there will be many of us, too. To defend economic policies such as those that already make Catalonia the engine of Spain, too. But, as President Macia said: Woe to the people, if the determination they take is not dictated by dignity. With so much renunciation, some of us will do well to remember his words. The other day I told him about the third ear. I'm just telling you today that we were hoping for you more sense of state. Now we're just asking for common sense. Move, Mr. Sánchez: Catalonia, Spain and history will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Mr Matute has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. In two minutes, and on behalf of the Basque independenceist sovereignist left, I would like to move some notes on what they have been these days. The first is to note with concern the standardization and approval that is being given to the extreme right in the Spanish State. [[Protests]] The most worrying thing for us is not that there are twenty-three emules of Torrente, Blas Piñar or Millán Astray in this House. What is worrying is that his speech is homologated and that the rest of the political formations are given veto and pressure capacity. This is the only way to understand the fear of negotiating with Euskal Herria Bildu in some territories. That is the only way to understand the fear of halting governments of progress. Another point has to do with the votes. The four votes of Euskal Herria Bildu - look, Mr Sánchez, one more of the three I needed to save the investiture in case of an agreement with Podemos - were votes not for you to be president, not because we blindly trusted you, and I tell you from respect. They were primarily votes to prevent married, rivera or abascal from being presidents. Euskal Herria Bildu's vows were for months an anti-fascist commitment not to allow the wet dream of the ultra-right to come true, be it blue, green or orange, because we owe it to our people and an important part of our people, which is located in the Basque Autonomous Community, to reward you, the lords of the People's Party, of Citizens and of VOX, with zero deputies. That's what they deserve, that's the people we owe ourselves to, and that's why we were willing to contribute so that their promotion wasn't possible. I end with two questions. Much has been said in this House about many things and beautiful words have been used. Much has been said about feminism and has been set as an example of the times we have to build. Unfortunately, we note that little has been done about what feminism means. If you had done the exercise of transferring sorority into feminism to empathy and fraternity among the left forces for a joint commitment, perhaps today we would not be lamenting all of you. I end with another question. They have also used the sense of state as a bold weapon to appeal to the change of vote of other political formations. It is well known that Euskal Herria Bildu has no sense of Spanish State, but we still have common sense. We knew and knew that what citizens of good, humble people, working classes ask of us is that we prevent black storms from lurking at dawn. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u25	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mrs Oramas has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, if a Canary grandmother were here, she would use an expression that terrifies us of the Canary children, which is: you are beautiful! It's a very canary saying when we were being scolded. The big question is, what now? It cannot happen that the candidate, the current President of the Government in office, says: since I have not left, I am going to Moncloa and see you in November. We have to make an effort right now, we have that responsibility. The Canarian nationalists of the Canary Coalition, after having the guarantee that those gentlemen who wanted the armchairs, who did not sign the anti-terrorist pact, who broke the Toledo Pension Pact, who do not respect the constitutional framework, do not serve to govern this country, we are ready to take a step, but negotiating how it is negotiated. What has been broken is a three-day negotiation for an investiture, and here we have to talk about governance and country. When you are president, the first thing is the country, then the party and then the leader. And I recommend one thing to you, Mr. Sánchez: stop being advisors, strategies, and put the essence of your party, without electoral strategies, to speak. There are magnificent people in that seat and in the second. This political force, like that of the PNV, has experience of government, left and right, wants to negotiate for the Canary Islands, and wants to negotiate for the stability and governability of this country, not for an investiture, from tomorrow. The citizens have already spoken, they have fulfilled their task, and now we have to do it ourselves. Mr Casado has offered him a state pacts, with which this party agrees. What can't you do now that you can do in November? It's just that in November he's not going to make an absolute majority. We'll see if it gets better or worse! Start now, let us make state covenants the forces we believe in state covenants, sensible policies, within the constitutional framework. We may be ahead of November, if there is no other remedy, but, until the last day, first this country, first the citizens. They did the job and now it's up to us, because we're all pretty!, as the Canary grandmothers say. Despite the fact that the Canary Coalition was the first force and yesterday they made a motion of censure; that you, by throwing the Canary Coalition, gave the presidency of the Cabildo to the PP, which was the third force; that you did not win the elections, won the Coalition, when you ruled eight years; that in Tenerife you joined two escape routes, to Citizens and Podemos, to drive us out; although the motion of censure could have presented it within two weeks, to be friends, but yesterday, this Member tells you that my political force is ready to speak from tomorrow, not of investiture, but of governability, of the rights of the canaries, of the fulfillment of the constitutional framework, of course, with seriousness, as has always been done. Germany took three months to negotiate a Government. A government is not being negotiated in three days, but it is complying with my land and this country, with that coherence and with those values that the Socialist Party has always had, which has now reached out to them. [[Noting the People's Parliamentary Group]] Don't bite our hand. Humility. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. The next item is Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, after hearing Bildu's spokesman, do you think you can support Bildu in Navarre so that he does not govern a constitutionalist government? Did you hear what he said? Do you think that's a good partner for you? Because you have to remember that you propose, you say, both to the People's Party and to Citizens, that they abstain from relying on the Independenceists, and in the only place that you can agree that the Independenceists do not command and govern PP, Citizens and the Navarro People's Union, that we win the elections, they agree with the Independenceists. [[Applauds]] It's just that they deal with the Independenceists. And I'll tell you something else. With Bildu we must not have problems of the past, but problems of the present: Bildu still does not condemn ETA terrorism today. [[Applauds]] Man, let's talk clear! I will tell you more: in Bildu he says they are feminists, but they justify aggression against women because they are women on civilian guards, and that is not feminism. [[Applauds]] I guess you'll understand that's not feminism. Therefore, if you really want there to be responsibility on the part of the People's Party and Citizens in Spain - I am not going to speak on your behalf because they represent many more of the citizens I represent here - what I can tell you is that you can start with the Foral Community of Navarre. In the Foral Community of Navarre there are two options: either a constitutionalist government, which has won the elections, or a government of the Socialist Party supported by Bildu. And you there will give an example of whether the offer that you make to Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera is credible or just in front of the gallery. That's where we're going to see him! There's going to be the cotton test! Therefore, the opportunity has to rectify that agreement, because if it is not proving, as it seems, that it is much more comfortable with the independenceists, with those who want Navarra in an independent Euskadi, than with those who defend Navarra as an outside community within the unity of Spain. That is what we are playing in the Foral Community of Navarre and in Spain as a whole. You'll have to decide there and you'll see which side you're on. I also want to make a final point. Neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor Euskal Herria Bildu were represented on 28 April in the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, do not contribute to Navarra's decisions being made either in Sabin Etxea or in Guipúzcoa; they are made in Navarra and here, which is where they have to be made. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u29	Thank you, Mr. García. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u30	There's a mythical song by the unforgettable Aretha Franklin called Respect. Since Compromís, Mr Sánchez, as the letter says, we only ask for a little respect; respect for the citizens who trusted that we would build a government of progress; respect for those who made you president when you were neither a Member nor a Member, and with whom we have barely negotiated a couple of times; respect for my Government, your Government, the Botànic Government, a model government in social policies, which cannot and cannot do the social policies that you have given up in your speech, because with your refusals to seek a mechanism that compensates for Valencian under-financing, once again condemn us, to dedicate the fourth part of our budget to paying an illegitimate debt that we have not generated, instead of devoting it to helping and rescuing people, dependents, young people, self-employed people, businesses, and machost violence; respect, finally, for the five million people who live and work in my land and who sincerely expect more of you and more of all. The story, our story: you want to win this vote for surrender; you want to be president without negotiating thoroughly with us, without seriously seeking agreement with us. We have negotiated with disdain, even the other day we perceived pride in his speech, and we do not deserve it; no longer compromise, no longer Baldoví, but all the Valencian people. And one hope: we will always have September and August, and there will be Commitment if you want to negotiate with loyalty. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, all of us, the left, let us not disappoint the hope of millions of people, because if we let these two months die without doing anything, if we go to elections, many people will show their frustration with an angry and militant abstention. Let us negotiate, let us agree, let us be generous, flexible, because many people are hoping that there will be government, that you will be president; they are hoping that their problems, such as prison officials, such as Valencians and Valencians, will be solved by just a couple of examples. Let's move on and start working from today. Or that, or Columbus's picture. Let's see if we can freeze his smile today for the two months we have left. You can count on us if there really is that willingness to negotiate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u31	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u32	Good morning and thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday I was able to explain here the position of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria in this investiture debate. Well, nothing has changed for my party since then and that is why our vote in favour of Mr Sánchez's investiture will not change either. We present ourselves to defend Cantabria's interests and support the governance of Spain. With regard to Cantabria, we are satisfied with the work done these months. We have signed a government agreement with the Socialist Party which contains commitments to our land that are vital to our future. They have been based on criteria of justice perfectly acceptable to any Government, imbued with realism with the current situation and without any apex of opportunism. That is why they have been taken over by the Socialist Party and have been ratified by their candidate in this rostrum. It is obvious that our vote was not going to be the decisive vote for this investiture, but Cantabria deserved no less. I am also convinced - I am sure - that the vast majority of the political groups in this Chamber and their Members would accept these commitments, and that is why I am satisfied, because I am sure that these projects that are under way this time are not going to be delayed regardless of the Spanish Government. In relation to the governance of Spain, we have also fulfilled our objective, which was nothing other than to contribute our grain of sand. In this case, our grain was and will be our vote. But not only our vote; we want to give our moral support not only for the issues that directly affect Cantabria, but because a country needs a government, and we think that its agenda is a good one, which Spain needs right now. However, after hearing the rest of the speakers, it seems impossible that he will be invested in this session. I believe that you have not actually been heard, and I also want to say that many of the others, despite what has been said today, have not shown a great willingness to have a government either. So much doubt, so much abstention, does not seem to reflect that will. You still have to look forward. Mr Sánchez, I think we need to start negotiations from scratch. I am sure that you will do so by thinking of equipping Spain with a government that is consistent with all the challenges we face. There are still two months to make a new attempt; it is enough time for everyone to rethink their position. Nor would it be a betrayal of voters. I think it would be good for the citizens if we were flexible and preferred before we had to repeat elections. We are all aware that we must agree and, in order to agree, we must give in. Yesterday I set the example of Cantabria in the last 24 years; today I repeat it. It's not that complicated. Nothing more. I wish you luck, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is not a good day. It is not for politics, it is not for this House and it is not for anyone in this country who is considered progressive. Let me begin by thanking the groups that have endeavoured to give Spain a government that needs and that the citizens have already chosen. There have been many, and support can be expressed in different ways, I am aware of it, and I want to thank them all. Unfortunately, it seems that it has not been possible. Mr. Churches, last Tuesday we reached out to you. I also told him from this rostrum that we did not need guardians of the essences, but loyal partners. I believe that this negotiation has been burdened because you have refused to assume the election result, I tell you frankly. He refused to assume that it was Pedro Sánchez, and not you, who won the election. You refused to assume that, Mr. Iglesias, because publicly you have not stopped talking about proportionality, that you only asked for what was yours, but in private what you demanded was something else: you required us to control more than half of public expenditure, as the President of the Government has already explained to you. What you demanded of us was to control most of the public spending. [[Denials by Mr. Turrion Churches]] Yes, Mr. Churches, yes. Do the math, please; and from there it has not moved. But not only did you ask to control more than half of the public spending, but it also required us to control revenues, all revenues: taxes, tax inspection, secretary and undersecretary of Finance and the Fiscal Accountability Authority, AIReF. Either we gave him control over public spending and public revenue or there was nothing more to talk about and Spain was left without government. I was there, Mr. Churches. I know, I know, I was in the negotiations. [[Denials by Mr. Turrion Churches]] Is that your proportionality? Is that what you call negotiating? The problem is that the reality is what it is, and you have not won the elections and cannot direct 60% of the revenue and expenditure of this country. The problem - I told you myself and the president told you - is that we want to negotiate in good faith, but we will not accept blackmail or imposition. [[Laughs from Mr Iglesias Turrion]] It's not funny to me, I'm not laughing, Mr. Churches. And that's what it is, that what you were saying to the public was not what you were saying in private to the president, nor what your negotiators were saying in public was what they were saying in private to the three negotiators, with whom it has been a pleasure, by the way, to share a table - difficult - these days. [[Applauds]] In the face of the public he spoke of proportionality, but then he demanded that the president practically control the economy of this country, and we kept quiet, Mr. Iglesias, so that the negotiations would continue. In front of the public he repeated that he asked nothing more than what was right for him as a fourth political force, and then, in private, he demanded of the president four of the six areas that Pedro Sánchez raised as priorities for the socialist project: work, science, ecological transition and the social area. [[denials by Mr. Iglesias Turrion]] For you two-thirds, and for the winner of the election one-third. And we remain silent, Mr. Iglesias, and we remain silent so that these negotiations can continue. And then you or one of your spokespersons came out again to say that they demanded social areas to make sure the government made left-wing policies. Mr Churches, everything has a limit and you have exceeded it, because - I told you on Tuesday - the Socialist Party what it needs are loyal partners and what we do not need is for you to come forward as the guardian of the essences of the left, because it is not. [[Applauds]] It is not, and if you want a test do not look very far: this is the second time that you are going to prevent Spain from having a left-wing government. [[Applauds.- Denials by Mr. Iglesias Turrion]] Curiously progressive yours, Mr. Iglesias, which when it is most lacking ends up adding itself to the right, and today also to the far right. Curious progressionism yours, Mr. Churches. We offered you to direct equality. I don't have to tell you what equality means to my party or to any left-wing party. Do you remember what they called him yesterday? I tell you: for you equality is a Chinese vase; a Chinese vase. We offered you housing, one of the great problems of our country, and you thought it was a Chinese vase. Science and universities, and he said no. Culture, he said no. Agriculture, he said no. International cooperation, Agenda 2030 and migrations, said no. Health, Mr. Churches, health, which is the jewel of the welfare state in our country, and said no. And you said all that, Mr. Churches, was a Chinese vase, merely decorated. We offered you a vice-presidency, Mr. Iglesias, which was also the requirement you made us to sit down and negotiate, a social vice-presidency for Mrs. Montero. By the way, it was this negotiating team of the Socialist Party that gave content to the vice-presidency, because the first proposal was for it to be a vice-presidency to coordinate, without management. We offered him this social vice-presidency with management of social welfare and to coordinate, without adding an absolute majority, Mr. Iglesias, between the two political forces. Is there anything more left than social policy? And now you're coming and you're off with one last surprise proposal, talking about active employment policies. Mr. Churches, do you know that active employment policies are being transferred to the Autonomous Communities? [[Applauds]] You want to run the Ministry of Labour without knowing what the competences of the Ministry of Labour are. You want to drive a car without even knowing where the steering wheel is. That's the problem. [[Applauds]] That sums up everything, Mr. Churches. You have no interest in social policy, health, equality, agriculture, housing, science or university, or even that Spain has a progressive government. All of that didn't matter to you, because you were here for something else. With 42 Members and without an absolute majority what you demanded was to control the revenue, to control the expenditure, to demand the political direction of the government. That is the problem I pointed out to him at the beginning, which in essence has never accepted the outcome of the elections, and what he wanted was to use these negotiations to achieve what the citizens have not given him. You did not want your party to enter a socialist government, you wanted to have a government parallel to that of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] You did not want a coalition government with the Socialist Party, you wanted a government only and exclusively to your measure. We can give up a lot - we have done it, we have given up a lot - but we will never betray our voters or give up our entire program. I told you on Tuesday - I told you and the rest of the House - that you can win or lose elections, but you can't lose your soul. The elections were won by the Socialist Party and no one is going to get us to give up our soul, no one. [[Applauds]] Now it will come with the blessed account, we are already seeing it. You will flood the media and networks with that blissful account with which, by force of intoxication, you have ended up intoxicated yourself. Mr. Iglesias, do whatever you want, I keep asking you for support for this government. [[Laughter]] Reality is clumsy and history does not forgive. I know it's funny that this country doesn't have a government, not me, that's why I'm serious, pretty serious. [[applause.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: How little shame]] The reality is clumsy and history does not forgive, the only thing that remains is that today, for the second time, you will prevent a socialist government, for the second time. We keep on top of the table the offer we transferred to you yesterday, the proposal of that vice-presidentship, with the competences - not only the coordination, as you intended - in social welfare, the Ministry of Equality, the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs and the Ministry of Housing and Social Economy. I'm done, Madam President. Mr candidate, Mr President-in-Office, thank you for the effort you have made, thank you for the responsibility you have shown, thank you on behalf of millions of progressive voters in this country, thank you on behalf of the whole of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the 123 Members of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra. In five minutes we shall begin the voting. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We have concluded the debate, and we will proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his Majesty the King. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, confidence will be given if the candidate obtains the favourable vote of the simple majority of the House. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your honors will answer 'yes', 'no' or 'abstention' from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you, as I did on Tuesday, to respond to the call with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call you will repeat the meaning of the vote to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot, as the previous time, and which was in this case Don Luis Santamaría Ruiz. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. The vote will begin. I ask the Secretary to start the appeal first, please. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Sarriá Morell, Vicent Manuel Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco Seva Ruiz, Yolanda Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Simon Marin, Joseph Soler Mur, Alejandro Soto Burillo, Juan Luis Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Vicente Viondi, Daniel Vilches Ruiz, María Luisa Villagrasa I want, Noemi Zamarron Moreno, Agustín Zaragoza Alonso, José Aceves Galindo, José Luis Alfonso Cendón, Javier Alonso Suárez, María Olga Andrés Añón, Carmen Andrés Barea, Josefa Antón Cacho, Javier Aranda Vargas, Francisco Arangüena Fernández, Pablo Berja Vega, Laura Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bravo Boat, Eva Well Campanario, Eva Patricia Knight Gutiérrez, Helena Calva Ruiz, Mary Jesus Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Carrera de Castro, Zaida Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela Cerdán León, Santos Clemente Guadilla, Luis Corredor Sierra, María Beatriz Crespin Rubio, Rafaela Four houses Asua, Juan Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre Durán Peralta, José Carlos Elorza González, Odón Faneca López, María Luisa Fernández Benitez, Andrea Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Franco Pardo, José Manuel García Chavarría, María Montserrat García Gómez, Valentín García López, Maribel García Morís, Roberto Gomez Hernández, Hector González Caballero, Miguel Ángel González Pérez, Ariagona González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel Lopez War, Sonia Guijarro Ceballos, Maria Guinart Moreno, Lydia Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio Izquierdo Roncero, José Javier Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lastra Fernández, Adriana Loyal Fernández, Isaura Lima Cid, Fuensanta López Álvarez, Patxi López Cano, Ignacio López Izquierdo, Sonsoles López Zamora, Cristina Máñez Rodríguez, Elena Marí Klose, Pau Marra Dominguez, María Ángeles Marrodán Funes, Maria Martínez Seijo, María Luz Mazón Ramos, José María Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mínguez García, Montse Montilla Martos, José Antonio Morlà Florit, Pau Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores Nasarre Oliva, Begoña Ortega Otero, Marina Padilla Ruiz, Esther Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Abelás, Adolfo Polo Llavata, Francisco Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Nieto's friend, Ana. Ramírez Carner, Arnau Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Renau Martínez, Germán Rodríguez Salas, José Antonio Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Ros Martínez, Susana Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Ruiz López, María Concepción Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salazar Rodríguez, Francisco José Sánchez Escobar, Mariano Sánchez Jódar, Marisol Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Santamaría Ruiz, Luis Sayas López, Sergio Suárez Lamata, Eloy Ten Oliver, Vicente Taken away Ochoa, Vicente Toscano de Balbín, Carla Hate Bengoechea, Edurne Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Velasco Morillo, Elvira Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Abascal Conde, Santiago Adam of Peace, Mary Angels Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín Alonso García, María Luisa Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol, Jaume Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana Back to top García, Inés Arteaga Espinosa de los Monteros, María Dolores French Ball, Edmundo Bartolomé Cachón, José Antonio Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Betoret Coll, Vicente White Garrido, Ma Mar Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus You'll erase Castanyer, Laura. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Head Houses, Thomas Calderón Díaz, María José Calvo García, Eduardo Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Married White, Pablo Casaro Ávila, Alberto Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo Clavell López, Oscar I answered Rossello, Magdalena Margarita Cortés Fernández, Juan José Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad De la Torre Díaz, Francisco From Meer Méndez, Rocío From Paramo Gómez, Fernando From Fifth Romero, Marcos De Campo Estaún, Sergio Del Moral Leal, María Luisa Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Dominguez Paredes, María Victoria Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María Spine of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia Fernández González, Justo Fernández Hernández, Pedro Fernández-Bravo García, Francisco Javier Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María Bago Bugarín, Diego Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Conception Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel Garcés Sanagustín, Mario García Adanero, Carlos García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Molina, Javier Aureliano García Rodríguez, Alicia García Tejerina, Isabel García-Pelayo Jurado, María José Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Ignacio Gasquez Collado, Paloma Gil Lazarus, Ignacio Gimenez Gimenez, Sara Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo Gomez González, Rubén González Guinda, María del Carmen González Taño, María Guadalupe González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Guillen Figuerola, Lourdes Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Beautiful Ayuso, Carlos Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernandez Blázquez, Roberto Hernandez Muñoz, Manuel Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hervías Chirosa, Francisco Javier Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, María Teresa Julià Julià, María Sandra López-Bas Valero, Juan Ignacio Lorite Lorite, Andrés Marcos Ortega, Miracles Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Mariscal Zabala, Manuel Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez Ferro, María Valentina Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Granados, María Carmen Matarí Sáez, Juan José May Alonso, Soraya Mejias Sánchez, Carina Mendez Monastery, Lourdes Mesquida Ferrando, Joan Master Barea, Manuel Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Mirón Canelo, José Antonio Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montesinos Aguayo, Pablo Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Latorre, Joaquin Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Movellán Lombilla, Diego Moya Sanz, Maria Amparo Vidal Muñoz, Maria Nacarino-Brabo Jiménez, Aurora Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olona Choclán, Macarena Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier Pino Ocampo, Beatriz Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Prohens Rigo, Margarita Ramírez del Río, José Ramírez Freire, Saul Riolobos Regadera, Carmen Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Rivero Ortega, Enrique Victor Robles López, Joaquín Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings Rosado Peinado, María Ángeles Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín Wheel Perello, Patricia Ruiz Solá, Maria de la Cabeza Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel Sánchez Pérez, Caesar Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'abstention': Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando Telechea i Lozano, Carolina Uriaarte Torrealday, Roberto Velarde Gomez, Martina Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe Asens Llodra, Jaume Baldoví Roda, Joan Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Bassa Coll, Montserrat Belarus Urteaga, Ione Cañigueral Olivé, Laia I'm sure you're welcome, Joan. Dantas oak, Maria Courtesy Gómez, Ismael Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Echenique Robba, Pablo Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fernández Castañón, Sofia Franco Carmona, Isabel Freixanet Mateo, Maria García Orta, Alejandro García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gomez del Moral Fuster, Gerard Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio Gorospe Elezcano, Josune Gorrotxategi Azurmendi, Miren Granollers Cunillera, Inés Guijarro García, Txema Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Illueca Ballester, Hector Iñarritu García, Jon Jover Díaz, Antonia Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio Master Moliner, Roser Margall Sastre, Joan Marquez Guerrero, Maria Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Mayoral Perales, Rafael Mena Arca, Joan Muñoz Dalda, Lucia Nuet Pujals, Joan Josep Pérez Díaz, María Teresa Pérez Merino, Mercedes Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Pujol and Farré, Norma Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Rosique i Saltor, Marta Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez Serna, Javier Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'abstention' telematically: Montero Gil, Irene Maria Government members in office who said 'yes': Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Calvo Poyato, Carmen Delgado García, Dolores Robles Fernández, Margarita Square Mount, Mary Jesus Grand-Marlaska Gómez, Fernando Abalos Meco, José Luis Celaá Diéguez, Isabel Valerio Cordero, Magdalena Maroto Illera, Reyes Planas Puchades, Luis Ribera Rodríguez, Teresa Guirao Cabrera, José Carcedo Roces, María Luisa Duke Duke, Pedro Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Hernanz Costa, Sofia Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Suárez Illana, Adolfo Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'abstention': Pisarello Prados, Gerardo Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-25-CD190725.u36	Thank you very much. Is there a Member or a Member who has not been called to vote? [[Pause]] Let us proceed to the counting of the votes cast. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 124 against, 155 abstentions, 67. Since the required majority has not been reached and therefore the confidence of this House for the investiture has not been granted, this circumstance shall be communicated to his Majesty the King, for the purposes of article 99.4 of the Constitution. The meeting rose. It was three and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
