ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin today with the appearance, at our own request, of the President of the Government in office before the plenary of the House to report on the European Councils held on 20 and 21 June and 30 June, as well as to report on the issue of Brexit. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I appear before the House to report to the European Council on 20 and 21 June, and to the extraordinary Council convened on 31 June, focusing, as you know, on institutional appointments. Also, at this event, as the President of Congress has said, I will report on the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, which, as you know, is entering a decisive phase in this month of October. Before addressing the issues on the agenda, I want my first words to have a very special sense, first of all, of solidarity and also of affection to all the people affected by this summer's severe forest fires in various parts of our territory; secondly, of sincere recognition to all the operations that participated in the efforts to extinguish them, of recognition both to the administrations - local, autonomous and state - as well as to the professionals and to the whole of the citizenry, which turned out exemplary, as we could see, in one of the fires that hit us the most, that was that of the island of Gran Canaria. With these words, I believe that the majority of this House and also of society, grateful to those who defend and even - we have seen in the past - pay with their lives our common heritage, which is forests, individual security and the security of the affected populations. [[Applauds]] Similarly, from this rostrum I would like to invoke once again, as we have done all the parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, the memory of women killed by gender-based violence this year. We have had a summer, as you know, especially tragic, which makes the figures for 2019 - with forty murdered women - now come to this point to the figures for 2018. I cannot send a calm message, as I would like, but a message of conviction that this social monstrosity will be fought with all firmness by the institutions and by the whole of society, in order to put an end to this scourge that so shames us, especially the men of the country. We want, ladies and gentlemen, free and living women, we want women in full equality of conditions and also of rights. Finally, by completely changing the third, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that today is a particularly important and marked day for a territory of our country, a territory that we regard, respect and recognize, as is Catalonia. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that one day will come - and we are working from the government and also from the Socialist Parliamentary Group so that that day will come soon - when the Diada is the feast of all Catalans and Catalans and not just part of them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Council held in Brussels on 20 and 21 June addressed, in my opinion, very important issues for the European Union and therefore for Spain, and it was also the first European Council to be held after the elections on 26 May. Let me say here the satisfaction - I believe - of all the parliamentary groups in the House, at least of the majority, with the results of these elections - and I am not referring only to the most partisan issue, but to the defence of the European ideal and project - especially with regard to the participation data; I think it is important to underline this. Twenty-five years ago, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five years ago, since 1994, such a high percentage of European citizens did not go to the polls to elect their representatives in Parliament. This fact marks a turning point and conveys an important message - at least this is acknowledged by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the government in office - to European citizens and also to Spanish citizens: that we care about the future of Europe. Citizens are increasingly aware of what is at stake, especially at times like this, which are so far-reaching for Spain and for the European Union as a whole, when there are many challenges to be solved and, consequently, we need a stronger Europe than ever before; challenges to which Europe must show its best face, that of an integration project with solid foundations anchored in a shared history, but which is projected towards the future. That of participation, as I said before, was a very good thing, no doubt, but it was also because of the result of it: first, because it was allowed to build a solid agreement between European forces for this new stage in the main Community institutions - as we saw yesterday when the composition of the European Commission was made known - and, second, to stop those who want to provoke a genuine involution in the European project we share. We conjure up the danger on 26 May, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain and Europe, but we cannot, however, deny the threat of retrogression that the forces opposed to the Union represent for the future; forces that - let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen - live to polarise and to break societies in half, forces that propose prescriptions of the past failed and discredited with bitterness by history, forces, in short, ladies and gentlemen, who know only one framework, which is that of conflict and crisping. Let us not be fooled, the only option those forces have to impose their vision is to condition the language of the rest of the political actors, especially those who long ago maintained a constructive and also moderate position of encounter and who have now been dragged away by extremism. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is ally with progress from consensus and agreement to overcome unique differences that filled our continent with hatred. This is the main lesson in history that we have to safeguard - let us never forget - now that in Spain hate crimes are increasing and now that we are seeing in other parts of Europe grave desecrations of the Jewish population as a result of the rise of the far right in Europe. I have reiterated in this House and in other forums that the strength of the European project depends on the commitment of all, especially those political forces that throughout history have helped to give it stability from the will of agreement and also from the meeting. That is the basis of the agreement reached in the renewal of institutional posts for this exciting stage that is opening up throughout the European Union. It is a possible, desirable consensus that transcends the logic of the countries and is based on ideological families with very divergent points, ladies and gentlemen, but still able to agree, able not to bend and to submit an institutional crisis to all the Community institutions. With that will, ladies and gentlemen, I came to Brussels on 1 July and with that will Spain achieved its two main objectives: the first, to return to the heart of European decisions, of the Community institutions, to the centre in which decisions are taken with the leading role that a country like Spain deserves; the second, to participate in an agreement that places us as a genuine bulwark of Europeanism, a partner in which one can trust, a loyal partner who will always be open to talk, to dialogue, to discuss, but always with a clear objective, that is to strengthen the European project, to strengthen the process of Community integration. Ladies and gentlemen, after this approach, which I believe it was important to underline - although you already know the European commitment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of course of the government in office - I shall go on to detail the main issues dealt with at the Council meeting on 20 and 21 June. I will focus my speech on five major issues, ladies and gentlemen, which may sound distant, which may seem abstract, but which affect hundreds of billions of Spanish and, as a result, Europeans on a daily basis. The first of these is the Strategic Agenda 2019-2024, which - as you know - is the road map that marks the European Union as a whole for the next five years. We are talking about Erasmus, about the commitment to combating climate change and also about the Youth Guarantee, by putting some of these issues in these three examples. The second is the multi-annual financial framework, i.e. the budgetary framework to be provided by the European Union for the coming years and thus to implement that Strategic Agenda 2012-2024. The third is climate change or, if you think it's better, talk to the braves about what we're suffering, which is a climate emergency in every way. The fourth is the strategy against misinformation, which is essential if we are to defend the principles, the values of our democracy. Finally, there are some questions relating to external affairs, to external relations, which I believe may be of interest to this House. As you know, the first point, the Strategic Agenda 2019-2024, is - as I have already put it - a key document for the immediate future of the European Union, a real agenda of political priorities for the next five years. What do I mean by that? The wider this agenda, the clearer the message and ambition that the Union sends to European society as a whole. We need a Community perspective to tackle new challenges that go beyond the borders of the Member States. In my case, you know - because this is not the first time I appear when we talk about matters relating to the European Councils - that I have always defended in the European Council, before the rest of the Member States, that Europe has to be ambitious in these challenges; challenges such as the climate emergency, which I am aware of which has been talked about in this House - I must tell you that, of course, the Government of Spain, when it has to form, logically, will qualify as the climate emergency what our country is experiencing; there have been some autonomous governments that have already advanced this and I have to tell you that this commitment is maintained and is firm on the part of the Government of Spain - challenges such as the digital paradigm - it was also one of the elements that prompted the debate of the failed investment last July - education, science, the strengthening of the social dimension - very important for Spain; I must tell you that Spain is defending within the European Council the construction of this social pillar - the final conclusion of the Economic and Monetary Union - which is essential if we want the country's economic and social development as well as a whole, and as a means of the economic development, as well as a country's in terms of the economic power, as a necessary. [[applause]] It is good to note, ladies and gentlemen, that all of them have a high degree of concreteness in this document which was adopted at the June Council, which marks the road map - as I said before - to continue to build more and better Europe. But it is not only a road map - and that would be enough - but above all a Europe in which economic progress and technological changes are based on principles, on values - which is at the end of what is going on, as far as politics is concerned - the values of social justice and equal opportunities that the Spanish Government defends. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a minor ideological issue. Inequality has been the cause not only of social unrest - which in itself is already important and which, logically, we have to deal with from the political point of view - but also of our political turbulence, of the growth of anti-European forces, of the return of nationalism from a narrow perspective. An ambitious strategic agenda, with transformative policies to address new challenges, logically requires adequate funding to carry them out. That is why I would like to refer, secondly, to the multiannual financial framework as it is: a genuine opportunity for a new European impetus; a new European impetus for the ecological transition of our economy, which is something that the government in office is defending; a new impetus to strengthen cohesion between Member States and also within each Member State, especially when we are talking about territorial cohesion; a new impetus to tackle the technological revolution, strengthening our R & D+i system in an ambitious and inclusive way, because this technological disruption that we are experiencing must also be inclusive. The information age, ladies and gentlemen, is entering unexplored paths that have enormous potential, but also have enormous risks and challenges for which our governments must prepare themselves: online commerce, home automation, data exploitation, the digital divide, cybersecurity, teleworking, artificial intelligence... I could continue to list infinitely the examples of a future that is already present and that logically overflows the Member States and for which we need to find a common response from all the Community institutions. The Community budget, the budget of the European Union, the multiannual financial framework for the next five years must also be that of the Erasmus+ programme for our young people; it must also be that of the Youth Guarantee - Youth Guarantee which must be strengthened -, that of the new impetus to our education systems, to training and to the new technological paradigm in which we are and must be that of the commitment to the binding strategy of gender equality. With regard to gender equality and also gender-based violence, now that we are seeing what is happening in France, I must tell you that when you read the French press and listen to the French Government say that they are committed to feminicide and look to Spain, I am proud of the work that these General Courts have done, not only these but also the past ones, by adopting an Equality Act and a Law on combating gender-based violence and also by turning all resources on the part of all institutions to combat a social scourge like the one we live in. [[Applauds]] This multiannual financial framework has to be, ladies and gentlemen, a genuine declaration of intentions for a Europe that claims its place in the new global map of power, and it is possible to do so if we believe in the European project, as the Government functions and the Socialist Parliamentary Group create, but not only as an ideal, as something abstract, but as a window of unique opportunity to position ourselves in a world that is, as you know, in full transformation. We are Europeans by conviction and by vocation, let us also be so because our future and that of the next generations goes into it, because the strength and cohesion of a prosperous Spain depends on a prosperous Europe, that progresses, that does not retreat, that does not disintegrate, but that it is strengthened, that faces one another and does not turn one's back on the new challenges ahead. During the debate in the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Spain's position was clear on the multiannual financial framework. We must move quickly to generate certainty, maximum certainty for our companies, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for farmers, for farmers who are so important to our country, for those who are at the forefront of research in our universities, in science, for those who want to promote productive investment that generates added value from public institutions and also from private ones. Spain, in short, defends the need to offer a certain, ambitious framework that must also be agile in the management of resources, especially to our entrepreneurs, who are risking their heritage to create employment and prosperity on our continent. And I add an additional condition, and that is that we want an agreement as soon as possible. That is why the Government is working in office, by an agreement as soon as possible to make this multi-annual financial framework fully operational since January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the best Europe is the one that dares to look as far away as possible, the one that does not give in to the fatalistic speculations - which there are and, by the way, are never fulfilled - because it knows that if there is a desire to move forward instead of fear of going back, nothing can stop it; a Europe that leads - as I have said before - the great global challenges, such as climate change and migration, and that guarantees respect for the rule of law and strengthens those mechanisms of redistribution that we have in the welfare state, in short, a Union based on a social market economy, which knows how to combine economic progress, competitiveness and innovation in the digital age, without renouncing its true soul, which are the principles of the French Revolution: freedom, equality and fraternity. At the European Council, ladies and gentlemen, I was demanding on a key issue for Spain: the common agricultural policy. The Commission - as far as we know - has proposed a significantly significant reduction and in our view wrong. The provision of this policy must enable us to respond to the challenges of the agricultural sector, but it must also promote rural development and contribute to the vitality and generational relief in rural areas, which is undoubtedly one of the main challenges we have in our country. A strong CAP means, in short, more food security, it means narrowing the gap between urban and rural poles, but it is also a guarantee of social cohesion and territorial cohesion and it is a strategic tool in the face of this demographic challenge that we also have in our country and against the climate emergency that we are already suffering. That is why I would like to reiterate to the House today my commitment to maximum firmness in this area. Another essential element of the future of the multiannual financial framework must be based on the new orientation of cohesion policy, a path that we believe should focus on the effective construction of the European pillar of social rights, especially in view of the high unemployment of certain groups that are very full, very directly to the whole of Spanish society: the high unemployment of the young population and the high long-term unemployment. There is no doubt that we must also combat child poverty, and that is why we support the proposal made by the new President of the Commission to build a child guarantee. A Europe that protects the most vulnerable is a Europe vaccinated against extremism; a Europe that fights root inequality is a Europe strengthened against those who want to inoculate the hate virus in our societies. Another strategic axis of the new financial framework must revolve around one of the main objectives set by the Government in office and also by the parliamentary group that supports it, namely mitigation and adaptation to climate change. It was, as you know, another of the issues discussed at the European Council that I want to address within this same point as a fundamental commitment to the Union's new financial priorities in the period 2021-2027. We only have one planet. Time is running out, ladies and gentlemen, but there is still room to make things better and change the dynamics. Yesterday we knew the structure of the European Commission, and in it I would like to highlight what, in my opinion, is great news, and it is the rank of first vice-presidency for a green pact, for a green new deal, which will play the future commissioner and friend of Spain, Frans Timmermans. I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the importance attached by the new President of the Commission to an issue in which Spain is already making firm progress, as you know, which is the just ecological transition of our economy. In this area, it is essential to promote, as the new President of the Commission has already committed, a sustainable investment plan that guides our action towards a major objective: to be the first continent to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. Europe can, but not only can, be the vanguard in this global challenge. We have the economic capabilities, the technological capabilities to stop what is already a real climate emergency - as I said at the beginning of my intervention - but not only do we have the technological capabilities, we not only have the economic capabilities, we not only owe and we can, but we have a moral obligation, to lead the global response against this threat precisely now that we are seeing other countries - leaders also in the economic aspect - that are reneging on the Paris Agreement and that they are even putting in check the scientific evidence that all of us here - at least the majority - share. No one else is in a position to do so, ladies and gentlemen, if one looks at the rest of the world, one for incapacity and one for unwillingness. Europe does, as I said earlier, have technological and economic capacity. Let us show, therefore, will and determination, let us show a desire to lead from the example. In this Council, I transferred the urgency to the other Member States to adopt a long-term climate strategy - at most at the beginning of next year - and to mobilise, therefore, new resources to achieve this new green pact. The first step towards this path is the determination - as I said before - the commitment, and that is why we have to reserve 25% of the total disbursements from the next financial framework to the fight against climate change and to substantially strengthen the climate action of the European Investment Bank. Moving forward in this area is crucial to consolidating a just ecological transition from our economy. In short, progress in climate neutrality requires ambition, reaching 50% or 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 rather than 40% currently foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is more and more countries within the European Union that are adopting this objective at national level, although it is true that there are still other countries that are opposed to this kind of objective. However, the conclusions document reflects the commitment of the vast majority of Member States. In any case, ladies and gentlemen - and I believe that this is an element of pride for the whole House, at least for all those who are committed to this ecological transition - Spain will continue to be at the forefront of this commitment in which, I insist, there are not only challenges, but also great opportunities, such as the fight against depopulation, job creation and the commitment to the green and circular economy. [[Applauds]] This is what we are going to do at the next climate action summit, convened by the UN Secretary-General in New York on 23 September. Finally, also with regard to the financial framework, I stressed in this Council the need for a Europe with sufficient instruments and funding to tackle something that has also given rise to some debate in Spain, such as the migration challenge, and to do so from an integral perspective. This perspective, ladies and gentlemen, implies strengthening the capacities of our partners in Africa and Asia to combat irregular migration, but also to deploy sufficient resources for young people to find and create economic and vital opportunities in their countries of origin and to live a dignified life. The Union's budget needs to intensify financial support for Member States bordering on the African continent, and it also needs to strengthen cooperation instruments with countries that are key to addressing the challenge of migration, such as the neighbouring country, Morocco. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Council we are also addressing something that I believe is important and about what is probably going to happen when tomorrow we begin to talk about the debate that we can have today: the fight against misinformation, which is ultimately the fight for a healthier and stronger democracy. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this is a real threat to democratic institutions. All countries, including Spain, have undergone such campaigns. These are interferences, in our opinion, unacceptable in internal politics, in electoral processes, often coincident with the agenda of polarization and hate rhetoric that some collectives have; lies that are obscene, that are viral in social networks to poison public debate and divide our societies and, therefore, to weaken the common project that is Europe. The results of European action in this area have been significant. Stay with this data, ladies and gentlemen: Facebook, for example, has declared that it closed 22 billion fake accounts in the first quarter of 2019; I repeat: 22 billion fake accounts in the first quarter of 2019. It is a fact that, without a doubt, it is very positive for the result, but it is also very worrying for the dimension. Spain defended the need to continue to promote joint actions, to promote that digital service providers - web platforms, digital service providers and Internet advertisers operating on our continent, in Europe - join the European Code of Conduct to fight against false news, against fake news. And we must not confine ourselves only to electoral processes, which is undoubtedly important; at the national level, ladies and gentlemen, our National Security Council adopted last April a National Cybersecurity Strategy which addresses the challenges of cyber threats and raises both deterrent and defensive measures. In this respect, we have drawn up a procedure to combat misinformation, in line with the Commission's action plan. This is, I insist, a real priority for democratic societies such as ours, the Spanish one, which are threatened by the effect of the lie of mass dissemination. The lie, ladies and gentlemen, is not freedom of expression, it is simply a lie, and it must be fought with courage and determination. To conclude with the issues dealt with in the Council, I will refer to some issues in the field of external relations that were also addressed in the Council and which probably sound distant, but which are also important to our country. With regard to neighbourhood policy, the European Council stressed the 10th anniversary of the Eastern Partnership. Maintaining an arc of prosperous, stable countries on our eastern and southern borders is essential for the stability and development of the Union as a whole. I would also like to highlight in this speech the reference made in the conclusions to the present and future of Africa. The African continent is experiencing population growth that, well managed, can be a powerful factor for growth and development, but also, if we look at it on the contrary, can destabilize fragile societies, especially if, as is foreseeable, the consequences of climate change on the African continent are aggravated. In any case, that same population growth chronifies - and this is something we know - the structural character of the migratory challenge that will accompany us over the next decades. I therefore appeal once again to a state pact for migration, which is fundamental to our country and to our continent. This is something I have been insisting on over the past year. European action can be decisive in meeting this challenge. The fates of both continents are deeply linked, and in Africa, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the future development, stability and democracy of our continent is largely at stake. The European Council also showed its solidarity with Cyprus in the face of Turkish actions in its exclusive economic zone. On the other hand, it also demanded the freedom of detained Ukrainian sailors and the freedom of navigation in the Kerch Strait and the Azov Sea. He supported the work of the joint investigation team of a fact - you probably consider it already far away, but there are certain countries that take it repeatedly to the Council every time we have the opportunity to meet - as is the identification of those responsible for the tragic downfall of flight MH17. Finally, with regard to enlargement, it was decided to postpone to October the decision on the opening of negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, on a parallel basis, as you know, because they were quite intense days, on Friday 21 June the Euro Summit took place, including the Member States that belong to the euro area, as well as all those that are not part of the monetary union. Since this government began its journey more than fifteen months ago, we have always defended the need to complete the economic governance of the euro area, in particular in three areas: reform of the European Stability Mechanism, culminating in the banking union and advancing the establishment of a euro budget with a stabilising capacity, especially in times such as those that may come in the future to cool down the European economy. Recent history shows - and this is something we cannot forget - that the economic and social stability of the Union requires deepening economic and monetary union. This is the time to do so, just at the beginning of a new time when we can send a clear message to the world, especially to economic actors, and it is that the economic foundations of the Union are as solid as our determination with which we believe in the European project. With regard to the first of these, the European Stability Mechanism, the MEDE, in June we reached an agreement for its reform, in particular in the implementation of that backstop or fiscal support for the Single Resolution Fund, the reform of the precarious lines and the best cooperation between the MEDE and the European Commission. Around the European Financial Stability Mechanism, the launch of fiscal support or the backstop for the Single Resolution Fund represents a fundamental step forward for which Spain - different governments - has worked hard, and which I would like to acknowledge in this intervention. It is a key tool that will help strengthen the banking union, by allowing it to play a more important role in preventing financial crises or in the face of episodes of lack of liquidity. With these measures we are moving towards an objective that is fundamental for Spain, which we consider essential, and that is to give greater credibility to the Economic and Monetary Union and, moreover, through them to strengthen the banking union - remember that it was precisely the financial sector that led us in 2008 to the financial crisis from which we are emerging -. In this second area, that of the banking union, Spain has been key to the boost of European deposit guarantee insurance and this is something that different administrations in Spain have also been defending. With it we have achieved a fundamental achievement, which is that of the certainty of the protection of deposits against possible bank insolvencies; in short, it is pure protection for the savers of our country. However, we must be much more ambitious, as this seems to us insufficient. We have been debating too long about the opportunity or risk reduction needed to launch EDIS, the third essential pillar of the banking union. We need to step up our work at political level and Spain is going to be strongly involved in this issue; not only is it going to be involved, but it has already been involved in recent months. As regards the third area, which is that of the euro budget, it must have a strong stabilization capacity, and the Council endorsed the agreement reached by the Eurogroup on the budgetary instrument. This is a starting point which must have continuity, both in the design of a European unemployment insurance, which is why it advocates Spain, complementary to the unemployment protection systems that we have in the different Member States, and in their stabilizing role. It seems to me that the key to that euro budget must be the stabilizing capacity that this financial economic instrument can have. Spain will not accept a budgetary instrument, which does not add value to the budget of the European Union, which does not contribute to economic stability or which has a strong conditionality linked to the adoption of reforms dictated from abroad. Strengthening monetary union is an essential objective that requires will, that requires determination and Spain, that no one doubts it, will have will and determination to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union's ability to respond in a global context, as uncertain as the one we are experiencing in recent months, justifies the need for further progress in economic and monetary union. I insist on this idea, we need a Europe that protects its citizens, and to do so we need to strengthen and complete economic and monetary union. It is not simply an economic priority, it is a genuine political priority that measures the degree of commitment and the strength with which we want to move forward to drive transformative policies. Spain, I insist, has no doubt whatsoever: between moving forward or going backwards, we always choose to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, days after the holding of the ordinary European Council, on whose most relevant matters I have just informed the House, the Extraordinary Council dedicated to the appointment of relevant posts to the head of the European institutions in the next institutional cycle 2019-2024 was held. As you know, in the previous period and during the European Council itself, I acted not only as President of the Government of Spain, but also on behalf of the Social Democratic family, together with my colleague the Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa. The negotiations were not easy, as was noted from the outset, and the outcome of the European elections cast a complex arithmetic among the main ideological families competing in these elections. For the first time, the constitution of a majority did not rest exclusively in two parliamentary groups, the European People's Party and the European Social Democratic Party - if we may call it that - but had to join other parliamentary groups, and neither in the European Council nor in Parliament, which elects the Presidency of the European Commission and confirms the College of Commissioners, there were a majority of only two parliamentary groups. Nevertheless, we have managed to forge a strong consensus, which is at the heart of the European integration project, and which should also lead to serious reflection, especially on some political actors here, in our own country. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, needs great transformations based on great consensus and to achieve this it is essential that the legislature be started, that the main opposition parties abandon the blockade and that a progressive government be built, which is what the Spanish voted on 28 April. [[laughter, rumors and applause]] [[Applauds]] As is well known, ladies and gentlemen, the Council appointed the Belgian Prime Minister, Mr Charles Michel, as future President of the European Council; it proposed to the former German Minister of Defence, Ursula von der Leyen, as President of the European Commission, who in turn obtained, on 16 July, the mandatory support of the majority of the European Parliament. The current Director of the International Monetary Fund, Mrs Lagarde, was appointed as the future President of the European Central Bank and, finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation of Spain, Pepe Borrell, was proposed as the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the European Commission. [[Applauds]] Let me make two starting remarks that I understand should lead this House to make a very positive judgment of what happened in those days. Firstly, because for the first time a woman is going to be the President of the European Commission, and also because, for the first time in the history of the European Commission, we are going to have a joint committee. Yesterday we met the team that will make up it - that new European Commission - made up of thirteen women and fourteen men. Ladies and gentlemen, in the whole history of the European Commission only thirty-five women had been part of this body, which is the European Government, only thirty-five in the whole history of the European Commission; today there are thirteen women in that European Government. [[Applauds]] This joint Commission will therefore be a milestone in the long struggle of feminism for equality between men and women, a great leap forward on a path in which Spain is already passing with a firm step with a government like that which you have right now in our country, the one of the most women in the whole OECD, and like Parliament, the one of the most women in all Europe. Secondly, this Council noted Spain's return to the heart of the European institutions, to the backbone - if I may say so - of the European architecture and, also to the centre of operations, to the command board of a project in which we believe as a country. In this endeavour, we are moved by the impulse of a deeply Europeanist society such as ours, as is the Spanish society, which we represent in this House; a society which has not ceased to row in that direction, even when it was more difficult to maintain faith in a project which, it is fair to admit, defrauded many expectations during the economic and financial crisis. The appointment of Josep Borrell, a Spanish Catalan or a Catalan and European Spanish as High Representative and Vice-President of the European Commission, represents an extraordinary news for our country. It is the realization of the specific weight that Spain has right now in the Union. The High Representative is the only Commission post that is appointed by the European Council, i.e. by the Heads of State and Prime Ministers of the governments of the Member States and that participates, in addition to the President of the Commission, as you know, in the meetings of the European Council. From this area of responsibility, the role that Mr Borrell can play in setting the Union's position in key areas for Spain, such as Africa or Ibero-America, will be decisive and, from the point of view of its profound intellectual, professional and personal value, I have no doubt that it will carry out this work with absolute dedication and political integrity. At a recent conference, Mr Borrell recalled that being President of the European Parliament the first lesson of Europeanism he recommended to young people visiting the Eurochamber was to see the military cemeteries of the world wars near Brussels. The white and grey crosses perfectly aligned - Mr Borrell said - remind us of the origins of this ideal called Europe and the need never to give up peace or democracy. The European Union earns a great server for its cause and Spain an ally in the defence of Europe for which it is worth fighting, which protects its citizens and which claims the values of the French Revolution. Finally, the Council of 21 June, ladies and gentlemen, and following the conclusions of the previous European Councils, included an information point on Brexit, on the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. I think it is appropriate to address this issue with the significance that the matter deserves, with the drama that I think the political moment requires, and we must also do so from the perspective not of that date of the last European Council, but from the light that the recent events that we have experienced over the last few hours offer, events that introduce new uncertainties into an already very complex issue, a matter that I want to move a starting reflection that I think is important: Spain is prepared for any scenario, also for a hard Brexit, a Brexit without agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the development of recent events in the United Kingdom, a development marked by confusion in an increasingly complex political context in the United Kingdom, and at the parliamentary session last Monday we were able to see it again. More than three years ago, starting from the beginning, the British people were summoned and voted in a non-binding referendum for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Throughout the more than four decades of British membership of the European project, deep political, economic, social and cultural legal ties have been forged that affect people, affect businesses and therefore affect the daily life and vital prospects of many people and have real implications for lives and businesses. The Government of Spain has always approached this problem from a premise: to be prepared for any scenario, thinking about the impact that Brexit can have on the real life of the citizenry, but not only from that premise, but from a conviction, and it is that this process constitutes a step backwards, a decision contrary to the logic of the times, to the dynamics of our time, a time that demands - as I have said throughout my intervention - more integration and strengthening of the common project in order to face challenges that transcend in its response to those of the nation State. The only legacy of Brexit, ladies and gentlemen, for the time being is to add more uncertainty to a global scenario in which that factor is not exactly scarce; uncertainty in the economy, uncertainty between citizenship and uncertainty also in the institutions of a democracy as solid as Britain is. Sounds amazing. Many times if you look back you see what British society is suffering right now and what British democracy is suffering as well. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the United Kingdom is assuming, if it is not already in a serious constitutional crisis, a serious constitutional crisis. Brexit is born of polarization - I have defended it on many occasions, from this rostrum on other occasions - and the weakening of deliberative democracy. Its promoters invoked the mandate of a single people, who were deceived by lies: lies about the bill to be paid for membership of the European Union by the British people, lies about the idyllic outcome of an exit from the European Union and lies about the speed - now we are seeing it - with which trade agreements could be negotiated with third countries. And they also realized that their only option was a simple yes or no, without nuances, without any possibility of exploring a third path that would avoid suffering and limit the uncertainty of their society. This binary dialectic leads to the negation of the nuances and it is precisely the nuances that enrich the public debate and constitute the very essence of democracy. In modern societies, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question, no question, that can be answered simply with a yes or no. The result we already know: a frustrating dead end in which politics has been put into British society, obviating that by limiting the capacity of society to choose two mutually exclusive alternatives - negating one another - the result can only create social fracture, territorial fracture and weakening of British institutions and British democracy. The United Kingdom is now in a situation of complete political blockade, as we are seeing in the media. The new British Prime Minister rejects the withdrawal agreement agreed by the British Government and the European Union as a whole to keep the date of 31 October against the wind and to force an unagreed Brexit that logically harms both parties, the United Kingdom and the European Union. The situation you see in the media, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not intend to call it much more than confusing. In any case, what a few months ago seemed unthinkable, an unagreed Brexit, a hard Brexit, has now become a more than likely scenario. The European institutions and the Member States have acted flexibly and in good faith from the outset, and I must say here, ladies and gentlemen, that we have completed a process which other previous governments have initiated, to which I also wish to pay tribute in this negotiation and in this constructive participation in the European Councils, but making it clear from the outset that we cannot renegotiate what has already been agreed, that we cannot renegotiate the withdrawal agreement agreed with the British Government. No further concessions can be made. A priority objective for the Government of Spain was from the outset to maintain this unity of action between the Member States of the Union and throughout the negotiation process this objective - I have to tell you - has been achieved, and it must continue to be so. We all want an orderly exit and we do not want a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. For her we have worked with dedication and great effort. We have devoted many hours of work and in this I must not only pay tribute and claim the good work of all the members of the Council of Ministers, but also of many officials who have spent many hours in Brussels, the United Kingdom and Spain over the past few years trying to reach the agreement that we now have to defend among the 27 Member States. If the British position, ladies and gentlemen, makes that orderly exit impossible, we are prepared. The Government of Spain has worked, as you know, because it has also been the subject of debate in the General Courts in the past 15 months in order to cover any possible scenario, including the unagreed Brexit, and that is why I would like to convey a message of tranquillity to the public and to all economic and business actors. As you know, the coordination of the preparatory measures for Brexit is the responsibility of the Presidency of the Government and a system of inter-ministerial and regional coordination of information and work has been established in the following bodies: firstly, the Inter-Ministerial Commission for the follow-up of the withdrawal process of the United Kingdom of the European Union or the Inter-Ministerial Commission for Brexit; secondly, the Brexit Working Group, chaired by the Secretary of State for the European Union; thirdly, the Brexit Focal Points Group, chaired by the Director-General for Integration and Coordination of General Affairs of the European Union; and finally, the Conference on Relations with the European Union for coordination with the various autonomous communities and with the autonomic governments. The contingency plan drawn up by the Government revolves around three lines of action which we have already explained in the last parliamentary term and which will allow me to repeat at today's sitting. First of all, the regulations, which were mainly set out in Royal Decree Law 5/2019 of 1 March 2019, which was validated on 3 April. Secondly, in addition to regulation, logistics. On 8 February last, the Council of Ministers approved a reinforcement of 875 public employees. This staff is already in their posts in most cases and this reinforcement applies basically, as you can imagine, to customs services, controls associated with trade in goods, border controls and the transition to the new regime of British residents in our country, which are many. And, thirdly, communication. As I have told you before, regulations, logistics and communication through the Brexit tab on the Moncloa website, which has been in operation since 14 January, also through sectoral information on the websites of the various ministries of the Government of Spain, seminars to prepare companies, endless meetings with the sectors and associations of citizens and also meetings with the autonomous communities. The contingency plan covers all areas linked to the withdrawal and, if you think so, I will quote those which I consider to be most relevant to the citizens of our country, although logically we can then enter into the debate on the issues that matter to you or are of greatest interest to you. They include: citizenship, including the strengthening of assistance to Spanish residents in the United Kingdom; cross-border workers; access to regulated professions and also to professional qualifications; social security and health care, which are undoubtedly very important; access to university and certificate approvals; judicial cooperation and police cooperation; financial services; aid for the preparation of enterprises, such as the Brexit check or aid to sectoral associations of enterprises; customs and controls associated with trade in goods; and air and land transport. As you know because we have had the opportunity to discuss it in these General Courts, this is a detailed and comprehensive plan that seeks to make the obvious: to minimize the impact of a hard Brexit in the event that it finally occurs. It is a plan of enormous complexity, as you can imagine, which addresses in as much detail as possible we are faced with an unprecedented situation and at the pace of the changes that are taking place in the situation, aspects in all areas of our daily life, from education or the economy to the work or health field. I now turn to some of these aspects. In the area of citizenship, we have made the transition to the general alien regime of British nationals and their families. As you know, we are the European country with the largest number of British residents on our land. The issuance of new residence documents is a complex process that will affect around 400 000 people and requires a relatively long period of time that has been set at 21 months since the date of withdrawal. As far as cross-border workers are concerned, the Government conditions the issue of work authorization to UK nationals for reciprocal treatment of Spanish nationals by the British authorities. The aim is to ensure that work is maintained, especially in Gibraltar, where 9000 Spanish citizens are transferred daily to work. This issue is a matter of absolute priority for the Government of our country. Similarly, we have put in place the necessary measures to protect workers and also pensioners covered by the British and Spanish social security systems who exercised the freedoms of residence and movement. These measures are to be implemented for 21 months and only in default or until an international agreement is signed that permanently regulates the coordination of both systems. The measures cover other relevant issues, such as the export of pensions, which is very important; the totalisation of contributions made; the calculation of pensions, without a doubt essential for many workers who are now in the United Kingdom; temporary incapacity, and maternity and paternity and unemployment benefits. In particular, in order to protect the 14 000 residents of the Campo de Gibraltar from whom 9000 are Spaniards, as I said earlier, who travel daily to work in Gibraltar, access to unemployment benefits recognized by Spain for the periods listed in Gibraltar before and after the date of withdrawal is guaranteed. This, without a doubt, is vital, as you know, because you have had the opportunity to speak with the people of the Campo de Gibraltar, without being required to have contributed to the Spanish social security system by this contingency. With regard to access to health care, which is another of the key points, Spain will continue to provide health care to UK nationals for 21 months - and this is important - in Spain on the same terms and under the same conditions established prior to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. But this also requires, ladies and gentlemen, that the United Kingdom ensure the same conditions for Spaniards who live and reside in the United Kingdom and who are entitled to receive health care from Spain. In addition, the guarantee of reimbursement of expenses for health care provided in Spain, for health services, is required on the same terms as at present. With regard to police and judicial cooperation, it should be made clear that, with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the rules applicable in European police and judicial cooperation processes are no longer effective. It is therefore necessary to clarify the transitional arrangements for the application of police and judicial cooperation procedures, distinguishing whether they were initiated prior to the entry into force of this Royal Decree-Law or later. As you know, the loss of the Community passport also means that British financial institutions have to adapt to third country regimes in order to continue to provide services, in this case in our country. With the aim of strengthening legal certainty, customer protection and also avoiding any risk to financial stability, the Royal Decree-Law found that the validity of contracts is not affected by the UK's withdrawal, thus complementing the measures taken at European level. In addition, as a contingency measure, a temporary scheme is established to ensure that adaptation to third country schemes does not entail a reduction in the provision of services associated with such contracts. In the area of customs, ladies and gentlemen, this is also an important point, the contingency plan envisages the possibility of forwarding certain requests required by the customs procedure with third States before the date of withdrawal, in order to avoid, logically, their concentration in the days following the departure of the United Kingdom from the Union. On transport, measures are being taken to enable the carriage of goods by carriers established in the United Kingdom with origin or destination in our country. Moreover, the validity, until its expiry date, of the authorizations for the international regular transport of passengers currently in force between the territory of the United Kingdom and Spain is also stated. As far as airport services are concerned, it should be noted, lastly, that Brexit implies that boarding fees and various services provided for flights within the European Economic Area would cease to apply. Therefore, these fares are expected to be maintained for flights to the United Kingdom until 28 February 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures are subject to a constant process of re-evaluation and analysis by the Executive in office through the various working groups and teams. In this regard, on 5 September I chaired the extraordinary meeting of the Interministerial Commission on the follow-up to the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, with the participation of all the members of the Council of Ministers. In the same report, each department reported on the regulatory measures, the provision of personal and material means and the communication actions taken in their respective areas of competence. Similarly, it was agreed that the Working Group under the Inter-Ministerial Commission on Brexit would meet weekly to provide a comprehensive and permanent follow-up to the implementation of the final details of the contingency plan. Finally, the decision was taken to strengthen cooperation with the autonomous communities, which is fundamental, and to this end a meeting of the Conference on European Union-related Affairs, chaired by the current Vice-President of the Government, will be convened in the near future. The aim will be to report on the progress made and also to deal, from the maximum coordination and institutional cooperation, with this last period, until 31 October, in the case of what nobody wants or, at least, what Spain does not want, which is a hard Brexit. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout this complex process, Spain, without doubt, has managed to get the United Kingdom to recognise the rights of Spanish citizens residing in that country, a priority issue for our Government. Spain has done the same with British residents in our territory. We have signed a bilateral agreement granting the vote in municipal elections to its nationals residing in our country. We are and will be vigilant so that this is not merely a formal recognition and that it is effectively implemented, so that the protection of the rights of Spanish residents in the United Kingdom, of women workers, of workers, especially of young people who emigrated to the United Kingdom as a result of the crisis, of businesses and also of students who are being trained there, is fully guaranteed. That is an absolute and central priority of our Government: to ensure our own in the United Kingdom. We have also negotiated, in the case of an unagreed departure, a period of several months for a company particularly affected by hard Brexit, such as Iberia - which is part of the IAG group, as you know - to have time to adjust matters relating to its ownership regime so that it can continue to fly within the Union as a European company. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to make a particularly timely reminder. During the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement, the Government of Spain has, in my view, obtained a valuable shield in relation to Gibraltar, which is now going to be very important. It is because it will be maintained, whatever the final scenario of this process, as agreed, even if there is a hard Brexit, as I said before. As you know, this shield is based on a separate negotiation of the future relationship with Gibraltar over which Spain maintains with the United Kingdom, and by the same token I remind you that Spain can veto an agreement concerning Gibraltar without affecting the overall negotiation. It is also an armour independent of the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration, and it is therefore valid even if that agreement is not approved by the British Government. It links with the European Commission and implies the uniqueness of the Gibraltar case. A clear relationship is established between the status of Gibraltar and the territorial integrity of Spain. As I have already stated before this House, we have not only interpretative declarations which clarify that the area of withdrawal that includes Gibraltar does not extend to that of the future relationship, but we also have a clear interpretative instrument, of 11 March, agreed by the President of the Commission and the then British Prime Minister, which abounds in the same line: that in the territorial area of the withdrawal agreement there is no extension of the negotiation of that future relationship. Finally, I would like to mention some recent initiatives at European level, which help to strengthen our position in any case. On 4 September the Commission launched an important communication, which contains two proposals which I would like to share with you. The first is to extend the scope of the European Solidarity Fund to compensate for the damage suffered by the Member States as a result of exit without agreement - this is very important -. The second is to ensure that the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund can provide support to workers who are dismissed as a result of an unagreed withdrawal. Both proposals, in our view, in the view of the Government in office, are very positive because they are going to mitigate the impact of Brexit on the people, on the regions and on the states most affected, and reflect the spirit, so often defended by the Government, that there is no better way to protect Europe than to bet on a Europe that protects citizens at times of uncertainty such as that which can represent a Brexit without agreement. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must be frank, we must be realistic and sincere, contingency measures can only mitigate the consequences of an outflow without agreement, but they will not completely eliminate those consequences. Only one part is under the control of the European Union and also of the Member States; in the other the decisions are the responsibility of the British Government and Parliament. I would therefore like to reiterate the importance of those individuals or entities who maintain commercial, academic or economic relations with the United Kingdom assessing the extent to which an unagreed draw can affect them and taking measures to minimize its impact. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made it clear since I joined the Presidency of the Government that Spain should take a step forward in defence of the European project. At difficult times, such as those that are undoubtedly going through European integration today, it is when it is most necessary that our voice is heard, the voice of a country like Spain, which, despite suffering the consequences of a wrong bet, in our view, for austerity has never turned its back on the European project. I have insisted - and I will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen - on the need to move forward with European unemployment insurance and a European minimum wage, because the clearer the European Union's response to challenges, to global crises, the greater its ability to win back the hearts and affections of the citizens it serves, and the clearer the response to real threats, to future contingencies, the less electoral support from Europe's enemies, those living out of conflict and extremism. Europe erred in protecting during the crisis, yes, it did, but our response, that of Spain, was not to turn our backs on Europe, quite the contrary, with everything and despite all Spain has understood that it is precisely now that more needs to be done to protect Europe, because the alternative to Europe can only be more Europe. [[applause]] We wanted Europe when it was harder to do so, because we understood that it was when it was most needed. Spanish society has never been drawn to Euroscepticism, which has enthusiastically embraced some who are committed to forgetting the important lessons of history. This investment - in confidence - has, in my opinion, an extraordinary return, and is that Spain returns to the core of the European project. And we also do so by defending the need to build a more social, greener, more egalitarian Europe; a Europe that protects and strengthens its legitimacy in the face of citizens with deeds, not just words. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a final appeal. Let us look closely at what is happening in the United Kingdom, and let us make it aware of the threats to representative democracy that arise when politics is limited to antagonistic blocs, when it denies plurality and liquidates the nuances - which precisely enrich the debate in the public sphere - until it makes agreement and understanding impossible, until it supplants the deliberation by frentism. Not even the most deeply rooted democracies in history, such as the British, those that have a secular trajectory behind them, are safe from the trivialization of politics through polarization and rupture, as we are seeing in the United Kingdom. A recipe that always leads to the same place: to a dead end. Let us take note and act accordingly, avoid the temptation of easy conflict and lead by example. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be the best version of ourselves to give the best possible Europe to our children. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome to the parliamentary control session after six months, Mr Sánchez. The truth is that I have to say that you come here as President of the Government in office of a government that does not work, and you also claim that Parliament does not work either. You said this at the investiture session: without government there is no Parliament, one of the most serious twists I have seen of the institutional system in Spain. As in Goethe's poem, it comes after he has worked as a sorcerer's apprentice, causing too much destruction for Spain. In the end you use this House as another part of the tramway with which you are looking for scenarios for your intended and desired, but hidden, election campaign, already started months ago. In the end you have come to account for two European councils with a probably well-premeditated delay in not accounting for the wounds you have had to lick, because I want to start by referring to that global leadership that you blanded in Osaka: you were the leader of world socialism. In the renewal of institutional positions he had to settle for being invited stone in a negotiation between Merkel and Macron in which you dropped your candidate, Mr Timmermans.In fact, what happened was that the party that won the European elections, the People's Party, was able to preside over the European Commission, as it usually happens. By the way, the first President of the European Commission of the People's Party and the first Commissioner of the People's Party was Loyola de Palacio - because you are already ascribed to the merits of the People's Party - and the President of the Council was a Prime Minister of Belgium, to which at least the Spanish Government had to have raised some reservation because of its contemporancy with Catalan independence and because of its lack of cooperation in the extradition of murderers, such as the Yauregui, who on social networks was being strove to be in Belgium when the Spanish justice has demanded that he come here. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] After so much noise we picked up few nuts: a vice-president for Mr Borrell, who will certainly have fewer skills than you announced on drums and platters. But don't worry, we won't be as disloyal as you are with Miguel Arias Cañete, and when he has to go to a hearing and have a bad time with the information that will come about Abengoa's privileged information, the People's Party will support him as it did with Solbes and Almunia, because we have respect and institutional responsibility. [[Applauds]] That's right, just to consider what you despised; Mr. Timmermans, your candidate, will have half the skills that Mr. Arias Cañete had, and by the way it was very elegant, because he defined it this week as a global reference in the fight against climate change. Second issue of this European Council: Brexit. You come here to put forward a contingency plan and to talk about a website when you know that 170 000 Spaniards in Britain and 300 000 Britons in Spain were terribly orphaned by institutional support from the Spanish Government. We do not know what will happen to the airlines, to the banks, to the Spanish infrastructure or telecommunications companies; nor how much will it affect the 18 million British tourists who choose Spain as their tourist destination; nor will we know, if the negotiations are opened, if you are going to reclaim the negotiations on Gibraltar's sovereignty, that this parliamentary group, the People's Group, has already left behind, but it is that above all you are beginning to remind Mr Johnson already: he twists the law to close Parliament, you twist the Rules of Procedure so as not to be accountable to him. [[Applauds]] Third question. The European Council also spoke of sovereignty - speaking of sovereignty - and the defence of external borders. He said that illegal, only legal immigration is not allowed in Europe; that there must be a force of 10 000 border agents and that Frontex must also be empowered. Well, as far as immigration is concerned, no one doubts that the Aquarius had a so-called effect and that the Open Arms made a ridiculous move across borders. As you're only right when you rectify, you're now doing everything that the People's Party was critical of, and that's why you've improved the numbers, that's why you're strengthening the fence, that's why you're strengthening the State Security Forces and Corpses, making use of return or rejection at the border, and you're agreeing to repatriation with the Kingdom of Morocco, and yet in these months 200 people have unfortunately died at sea, five hundred illegal boats have arrived with 14,000 immigrants on board. It has also been discussed at the European Council on anti-terrorism security, and today is the 18th anniversary of 11 September, and I want to remember from here all the victims of the attacks in New York, London, Paris, Germany, and of course Madrid and Barcelona. [[Applauds]] But that memory also has to reach the victims of terrorism etarra, and I have to say that two days ago the Socialist Party, in Navarre, allied with Bildu to go in favour of an ignominious law of police abuse, in which it equates the executioners with the victims, it equates the etarra with the National Police and the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] It is not worth everything to get power in an autonomous community or for a handful of votes for the investiture, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It's not all worth it. But in the foreign policy of this Council something was forgotten by the Spanish delegation, and it was to impose that Venezuela should be spoken of, less badly than fifteen days later, in a resolution before the European Parliament, which also led to our MEP, Leopoldo López, echoing the Bachelet report of the United Nations. It is a chilling report on the atrocious Venezuelan dictatorship, which some groups in this House continue to support, and which some members of your party continue to sponsor. This report says that there are 7,000 extrajudicial killings, that there are rapes and tortures, that there is prostitution in exchange for food, that there are 7 million people in humanitarian emergency, 4 million people who are already malnourished, 3.5 million who have had to emigrate. All that despite the three meals that Errejón says are given in the Maduro regime. I would therefore like Spain to have a more audible voice, and to immediately cancel the assets and current accounts of Venezuelan geriatrics in Spain and lead the action also in the European Union. [[applause]] What Mr Sánchez has said is about climate change: welcome to sustainability twenty years later! [[Rumors]] The Popular Parliamentary Group was the first party in Spain to have had a Ministry of the Environment, 1996: 23 years ago. [[Applauds]] And that ministry one year later signed the Kyoto Protocol, and in 2002 it ratified it; and in 2017 it signed the Paris Agreement. So, environmental lessons to us, none. That is true, without ruinous catastrophe and environmentalist demagogy, because because you anticipate the European Union's already demanding demands, we are seeing in Spain how the electro-intensive industry closes its doors, how the motor industry goes out month by month in manufacturing, exports and registrations. [[Applauds]] And above all, Mr Sánchez, that the environment, in addition to combating climate change, is also another issue, for example, a water policy that you still do not raise after a summer that has been very complex; or, for example, issues relating to agriculture, the countryside, a CAP in which thanks to the People's Party we got EUR 47.5 billion, and which you have not said what your claims are and how the negotiations are going within that multiannual financial framework. [[applause]] But he also spoke of misinformation and hybrid threats, that's very good, of lies, of fake news, just what is happening in Catalonia with the Diada; just what we heard yesterday from Mr. Torra, saying that we have to reap the chains of an invasion as was the Bourbon. Hey, do you think this person can be approved to sit down and negotiate the Barcelona Diputación, municipalities in Catalonia or to be negotiating his investiture? Does it seem normal for a person to be appealing to the rebellion, to the confrontation on the street, which is justifying - as he said - in the ANC's call for the plat fort, as a thermometer to measure what is the answer to the Supreme's possible sentence? Listen, Mr. Sánchez, if the Supreme's sentence says there was a crime of rebellion or sedition, will you pardon the coup prisoners that the magistrate or the Supreme Court decides to condemn? Because that's what Mr. Torra is already anticipating. Therefore in view of the misinformation I will tell you that they are doing it not only in Barcelona, they are doing it also in Waterloo and in Strasbourg and in Brussels, and they are doing it with our taxes because Diplocat, the council of the republic, remains open without the government doing anything, I don't know if because he doesn't know or because he can't because of the negotiations they have undertaken. So if we talk about fake news, we don't have to go to the Brexit, if we talk about misinformation, what we have to say, as we in Le Monde have done today, 150 parliamentarians of the People's Party, is that we will not tolerate French parliamentarians saying that there is no rule of law here. [[Applauds]] You should do that, Mr. Sanchez. And, by the way, within the new strategic agenda adopted by the Council two things are said: the first, that the rule of law must be defended; the second, that the territorial integrity of States must be defended. Hey, Mr. Sánchez, what you're asking for Ukraine, do it in Spain. It cannot seem very good to us and we complain about the Minsk agreements when there is a party here that is in the Government of the Generalitat that is posing a segregation, an absolutely illegal secession. And the last issue was the agenda or multiannual financial framework, that is, the European economy. It is true that the international situation is very adverse: a trade war between China and the United States; uncertainties in Iran, Russia; deceleration in Germany; instability in Italy; Brexit, but you forgot to talk about the Spanish economy, did not say anything about the recommendations of the Council and the Commission, those of last semester. Why do you not use your prerogative to inform the House that the Commission and the Council say that we need to improve indefinite employment, also indefinite recruitment, that we need to improve school drop-out figures, that we need to improve market unity, that we need to do more for the sustainability of pensions, that we need to invest more in innovation and research? They've even talked about railway networks! By the way, in your tramway you go to Chamartin, but not to improve the train to Extremadura or the Basque Country or the AVE to Murcia! You're just gonna give a rally! [[Applauds]] But of course, in addition to what the Council and the Commission say...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u5	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u6	...you forget the figures. The figures are that last month there were 54 000 more unemployed in Spain and 210,000 less members of Social Security, record of the last decade. You forget to say that there is 77 % less international investment in Spain than when you came to the government or that the industrial output index has fallen by 5 % or, for example, that there is 15 % less enterprise creation. Or he forgets to say that indefinite recruitment has been in free fall for seven months or vehicle registrations. Or it forgets, for example, to mention that the agricultural sector - which grew by 4.8% - is now falling by 1.7% or that, without going further, investment in equipment - which is very important in the industry - is now decreasing by 1.5% and when it came to the government it was growing by 10.8%, or it forgets, for example, the CIS part which does not cook Tezanos: the consumer confidence index, which says that there are 20% of Spaniards who see their family economic situation worse than six months ago, and that there are 45% of Spaniards who do not arrive at the end of the month. It's the worst statistic in the last few years. And what do you propose in return? Exactly to put petrol into the fire, proposes 370 measures that increase public spending by 30 billion euros, and increase taxes by 5 billion euros. By the way, how is that imbalance paid? How do you pay? With more taxes, yes, more debt, yes. We're on record in public debt, plus deficit, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u7	Mr. Married, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u8	I'm done, Madam President. Also with the €7 billion you don't give to the autonomous communities to pay for health, education and dependency. [[Applauds]] That's a trap, Mr. Sanchez. It's never been done before. Therefore, do not come here to give lessons in Europeanism and arrange Spain. And I'm done. Mr Sánchez, the only thing you have done good in this year of uncertainty has been to maintain the budgets of the People's Party, but inertia is over and patience is running out. I told you, Mr Sánchez, that your government was the story of a great vacuum. Spain does not deserve a new election, but it does not deserve a president like you either. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, stood up.- A Member of Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who see us today. Finally, Mr Sánchez has an obligation to come to this House. You, Mr Sánchez, are coming to us to account for two European councils of months ago, because you are going to Europe not to do state politics, but socialist politics and your party. But I warn you one thing, this parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the law so that the presidents of government, whether in office or not, have to face up to this House before going to the European Council. [[Applauds]] The aim, Mr President, of going to a European Council is not to place socialist positions, the aim is to make a state policy, and that is why from now on - if that law is put in place and we approve it in this House - the Presidents of the Government will have to go with a mandate from the Spanish legislature and the people to represent us in the European Council. Having said that, Mr President, you also did not want to submit to control sessions, six months out of control literally - without going through parliamentary control - and we have finally managed to force a majority to make you face this Parliament. But I also say to you, Mr Sánchez, that I am glad that Mr Borrell, a Spanish citizen, holds a position of relevance in the European Union. What I'm not so glad about is that you've sold skills you're not going to have. You walked away from me that you were going to have skills that have withdrawn you. Mr Borrell is not going to have defence powers, he is not going to have humanitarian powers, Mr Borrell is not going to be able to impose international sanctions, for example, in Venezuela. In short, as always Sanchez is a fake selling things that are not going to happen, for one thing that was good news, that is that Mr Borrell held that position. [[Applauds]] So lucky, Mr. Borrell, in your position. We are not like some of his colleagues, who would not want a position of Citizens to occupy an international position, we are because we are not sectarians and because we are glad that a Spanishman exercises those functions. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Besides that, Mr. Sánchez, we've been talking about Brexit. I believe that, despite our discrepancies in many other matters, we are not going to have them in that. We agree that Brexit is bad news for Europe, but Brexit is Brexit and Brexit has to be fulfilled. Obviously the position of our group, of the European liberals, is to be able to extend, if necessary, so that there is an agreement that will harm as little as possible European citizens and businesses, and in particular Spanish citizens and businesses. But the Spanish Government has forgotten to work in particular on certain areas such as agriculture, automobiles or to ensure the freedoms and rights of many people who work and have to pass the gate in the Campo de Gibraltar. We must therefore not only copy and paste what the European Commission is doing, but we must apply it in Spain and concern ourselves with sectors as important as agriculture, automobiles or in particular with what is happening in the Campo de Gibraltar. You have not spoken about this, you have not, and I ask the Government of Spain not only to copy and paste what the European Commission is doing, but to work in Spain precisely to defend the interests of farmers, car workers or workers in Andalusia, particularly in the Campo de Gibraltar. [[Applauds]] There is also a fundamental issue for citizens, and I believe that for Spain, which you have not told us half a word about, Euroorder; a European failure, Euroorder. We cannot have a system like Euroorder that allows criminals to flee a country and cannot be tried in their country. And that is a collective failure of Europe, it is not a failure of Spain, and you have not defended that or said half a word after hour and a quarter in this rostrum. Why have Mr Sánchez and Mrs Delgado not defended the position of state lawyers, prosecutors, Spanish judges, who have had to rectify shamefully? They didn't want to defend Judge Llarena; we had to force that position from the opposition, because you didn't want to put a lawyer in him. You have not been brave to defend those who were harassed by separatism. You have gone to Europe and you have kept quiet. And I say to you, Mr Sánchez, that the Citizens' Group has a commitment, which is not to vote for the next Commissioner for European Justice if it does not commit itself to reforming the Euroorder so that people like Puigdemont cannot camp in Europe. [[Applauds]] Because those who neglect Spanish justice must know that they neglect Europe, because those who run away from Spanish justice must know that they run away from European justice, because those who commit crimes in Catalonia must know that they commit crimes in Spain and Europe. That is why it is important that Euroorder is effective, and it is not a caching, because at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, Euroorder is unfortunately a caching. Can you imagine that the same thing would have happened with a German criminal what happened with a criminal like Mr Puigdemont? Can you imagine that the same thing would have happened? Do you really believe that Germany or France would not have changed what was necessary for those who attempted to commit crimes of high treason against their State to return to their country to be tried? Do you believe that Spain has done enough, the former PP government and now the socialist government, to put pressure on and that the Euroorder is fulfilled? No, they haven't because we haven't had enough weight and courage and courage to do so to defend our public servants and our Constitution. So we are going to do it, and we will only vote for the Commissioner for Justice if he commits himself to a reform of the Euroorder. I also tell you, on the other hand, talking about Brexit, populism, Euroorden, Puigdemont, which today is a day that should be celebrated for many Catalans like me. Today should be the day of all Catalans, but unfortunately today, instead of being the feast of all Catalans, separatists have turned that into a private party, paid for by all, the feast of separatism. I want to remember today from this rostrum of many Catalan constitutionalists who today see with sadness, like me, that we cannot celebrate the day of our community. Why can't Catalans do like the Madriders, the extremists, the Andalusians, the Castellanomanchegos? Why? You said I wish we could celebrate. Mr. Sanchez, what do we do? Shall we summon the gods so that in Catalonia we can celebrate the Day? You're the president of the government. What do you mean, I wish? Mr Sánchez, it is your partners in the Barcelona Diputation, they are the ones who hang yellow bonds in the Council of the Interior, they are the ones who cut down streets calling on the CDRs and calling them to attack the state, it is Torra who says that we must disobey, and it is you who sit with him to talk about twenty-one reasons of infamy and a rapporteur. Mr Sánchez, a President of the Government cannot wish to say. You are not a commentator of today, you are the acting president of our nation and you have to enforce the Constitution in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In a democratic country, when laws are breached in a part of it, the Government of the nation acts. Can you imagine an American president saying that he would like to respect the American Constitution in Alabama? Can you imagine Macron saying that I wish Corsica respected the laws and the French Constitution? That's Mr. Sánchez: I wish; 'I wish it rained coffee in the countryside', Mr. Sánchez. [[Laughter]] No, you are not a singer or a commentator, you are the president of the Spanish nation and I ask you to act. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u11	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u12	I don't know if you've seen your partner Torra in the Barcelona Diputation saying literally a few days ago a few meters from here that if you didn't absolve your comrades, if there wasn't an acquittal sentence from your collusive comrades, you would call contempt. Mr. Sanchez, did you hear what Torra said? Because I have not listened to you from what Torra said until today neither to say nor to mu, and a president of a nation cannot hide under the table when a lord calls to contempt. A president of a nation - the Spanish one or any other decent nation - cannot say I wish, a president of a nation cannot be in the hands and, above all, of partner of Mr Torra, Mr Otegi and company. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, the paradox of the Diada is that today the Catalan constitutionalists cannot celebrate the day of our land, but Otegi and those of Bildu who walk wide through Catalonia making selfies with Torra can celebrate it. How nice, right?, a gentleman who has participated in the massacre of fifty-four Catalans in terrorist attacks, who has not yet asked for forgiveness, walks through the streets of Catalonia at the hand of his partners in the Barcelona City Council. How nice, isn't it? Mr. Sánchez, decent Catalans who comply with the law can't celebrate their day, but Mr. Otegi can go down the streets of Barcelona by getting his chest out. When are Otegi and his partners going to apologize in Navarre, Bildu, for the victims of terrorism in Vich, in Hipercor? When, when? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] But Mr. Sánchez will say I wish one day you'd apologize. No, I hope not, it is not governed by those who do not condemn terrorism, Mr Sánchez; it is not governed by those who have tried to destroy this country in Navarre. You have done a very serious thing that is criminalizing the constitutionalists of Citizens or of the People's Party and their voters and cleaning up the image of Otegi, Torra and their comrades who want to destroy this country. The world upside down: those who want the good of this country, with our legitimate differences, are criminalized - fascists, feces or everything they have told us these days - but Torra and Otegi are democrats, men of peace who walk in the Diada or who bargain with you governments. That is Sánchez's plan and that is why we do not agree with you, because your plan is antagonistic to ours; ours is that of a nation of free and equal citizens and yours is that of a nation of nations with privileged and aggrieved. That's not the Spain we want, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, I tell you directly that you are the President-in-Office and you have obligations: you have an obligation to ensure the Constitution and enforce it. In the face of the contempt and disobedience that Torra calls again, I ask you, Mr Sánchez, to require Mr Torra in accordance with Article 155 and to require him to comply with and withdraw those words. Can you imagine a U.S. governor saying that you have to destroy the U.S., or a man who rules in a German Land saying that you have to destroy Germany, or calling contempt of sentences and that the president of the nation does nothing? I ask you, Mr Sánchez, that beyond your differences with me and mine with you we be able, at least in this matter, in 155 and in the Constitution, to be together, as we were when we had to apply it. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, that despite our differences - you ruling in office and us in the opposition - we be able to apply Article 155 or at least warn Torra to withdraw those words, comply with the Constitution, ask for forgiveness from all Catalans who do not respect and return to the constitutional box. If you do not do so, Mr Sánchez, I remind you that it is not a right to apply Article 155 but your obligation as President of the nation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u13	Mr. Rivera, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u14	I'm done, President. Mr Sánchez, I ask you to come up to this rostrum and tell us whether or not you are going to apply Article 155. [[Rumors]] If you think that defiing or calling disobedience has no consequences in a country like Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u16	Do they have to commit crimes again to enforce the Constitution or are we going to prevent them from committing crimes? The Constitution is not the Penal Code, Mr. Sánchez, the Penal Code is for when the crimes occur. I want to avoid crimes, I want to prevent TV3 from insulting the majority of Catalans, I want the Mossos to work for the Constitution and not against the Constitution, that in Catalan schools there is no oversight in which language the children speak but that the law is enforced. That's Spain and Catalonia that I believe in. Therefore, one day as today, Mr Sánchez, I want you to make it clear whether you are going to apply the 155 and require Torra, or whether you are going to continue to bargain with Torra, with Otegui, and insulting most Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Let me make my first words a recognition for Victoria Rosell. The conviction of criminal Alba reveals that sewers don't always win. [[Applauds]] Mr. Pedro Sánchez, thank you very much for your appearance. The European Councils deal with issues of crucial strategic importance to our homeland which, unfortunately, are not always part of the political agenda or the media agenda. I have been taking notes of your speech and, although I will not be able to be exhaustive because I have barely ten minutes, I would like to point out some points on your report. European challenges are crucial challenges for Spain, which our country cannot face from a subsidiary position. You have literally said that we must generate certainty and that we must bet on a prosperous Europe. I think he will agree with me that this requires a stable government with a solid parliamentary base and a clear bet on what the European Union has forgotten and what has caused its crisis: social rights, human rights and sovereignty as a basis for the sustainability of the European project. You spoke about the values of the French Revolution and we enjoyed listening to you very much. But if that is not simply to be said, it must be translated into social policies that protect public services in the countries of southern Europe. The French Revolution laid the foundations of modernity on the table, but those foundations of modernity without equality cannot be built. [[Applauds]] You have spoken, as it could not otherwise be, of the problems of Brexit. Brexit will condition Europe's future as well as geopolitical relations, as it will affect hundreds of thousands of Spanish compatriots living and working in the UK. I do not agree with you that the political problem in the United Kingdom is frantism. Mr Boris Johnson with the help of the Queen of England has kidnapped the seat of popular sovereignty, the House of Commons, dissolving the Parliament that made him Prime Minister, and at the same time betting on a hard exit, which is what the reactionaries defend. On the contrary, what Jeremy Corbyn is defending - I hope you will take an example of some of the things that British Labourers are doing lately - is a much more sensible policy, putting forward a new referendum. I believe that the problem is not frentism, the problem is that while the reactionaries are sending in and cannot govern those who have sensible proposals, the situation is going to get worse. And here you have literally said that you have to be prepared for any scenario. It is very difficult for a Government in office or for a Government that does not have a strong parliamentary majority to cope with the uncertainties or situations that may arise from Brexit with the necessary force and vigour. There's been a country that hasn't been in your analysis, which is Italy, and I'd like to make a couple of comments. Italy is a very particular country, a very interesting country, with which sometimes parallels can be drawn. If you remember, a few weeks ago you were very critical of the 5 Star Movement and yet now the party that is your leader in Italy, the Democratic Party, has made a coalition government with the 5 Star Movement. I assure you that there has been much more hardness and harshness between the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement than between you and us. And I think there are two very interesting lessons from Italian politics that you, Mr President, should take into account: one, a coalition government is always preferable to an electoral repetition; the second Italian lesson: people do not see well when someone tries to advance elections to obtain electoral advantages. That's what happened to Salvini who, in the end, sees that he doesn't have as much support as he believed and finds that the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement have built a coalition government. I think you will be wrong if you listen to the advisers who tell you that for some more seat you should force the Spaniards to vote again. The Italian elections in this case are extremely useful to our country's interests. [[Applauds]] You have spoken, Mr Sánchez, of the economy, but I have failed to mention something that many economists warn of and it is a recession that could come; a recession in the context of a trade war between the United States and China, to which the slowdown of the German economy and the Brexit is attached. You know what will happen if the recession arrives. Some financial means will ask for the usual: more cuts. It was precisely these cuts that destroyed the social-democratic political projects in the European Union and demonstrated the failure of Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder's recipes. If a recession comes to Europe - you have literally said that Europe protects the vulnerable and is the best vaccine against the extreme right-wing forces - I believe you will agree with me that our country will need a stable government, a government with a solid parliamentary base, superior to the one represented by the three right-wings, that it assumes the protection of citizens and that it assumes security not understood as concertinas or as policies that are based on the action of the Ministry of the Interior, but as policies that are based on the protection of public services, health, education, pensions, wages and progressive tax reform as key to our country's ability to resist a recession. We can be leaders in Europe along with the Italian Government, which is now going to raise very interesting things, saying that the only way Europe can resist its disintegration is to defend its foundations for its historical sustainability: the protection of social rights, human rights and sovereignty. [[Applauds]] You have talked about climate challenges and you are doing very well, but a government that faces climate challenges needs to be more specific. The commitment to renewable energy must be unequivocal. Spain needs a public energy company that competes with you with the electric oligopoly to be able to lower the bill of light and you have to end the rotating doors at once. As long as there are former ministers of the People's Party and the Socialist Party or other political formations sitting on boards of directors of energy companies, the challenges that climate change poses and that young people are demanding of us on the street cannot be faced with dignity and seriousness. With regard to migration policy, which has also been in your intervention, I believe that your words have been vague. It is scandalous, Mr Sánchez, that in Europe we are discussing who has the right to rescue, whether we have to put concertinas or not, or whether we put them here or if we fund Morocco to put them on the other side of the border. I believe that Europe must respect human rights and allow me to make a criticism: you started very well with the Aquarius, but I think you were wrong this summer with the Open Arms. They were wrong to threaten them with sanctions and were wrong to state that they had no right to rescue. A Government that defended human rights must defend NGOs that were doing the work that States should be doing. [[Applauds]] With regard to appointments in Europe, I believe that your speech has lacked criticism. You have spoken about the appointment of Christine Lagarde as head of the European Central Bank, a woman who is surrounded by cases of corruption and the more aggressive management of the economic crisis that has affected the countries of southern Europe. At the same time, you have not mentioned the enormous democratic deficit which means that the European Parliament acts in a simple way by ratifying, at best, appointments that go in a direction contrary to the social policies that you and we are supposed to defend. Faced with the model of the great coalition, I have not understood how you have again appealed to Citizens and the People's Party to give it the government, relying precisely on the European policies that generated the crisis and caused serious difficulties to the European social democracy. Instead of reaching out once again to the People's Party and to Citizens, who after listening to what they say here, it is obvious that it is not sensible for you to ask for the vote again, you should look more towards your left, you should look towards our political family in Europe and you should look towards the greens and understand that in order to talk about ecological transition and social policies the allies cannot be the European people and the European liberals. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Sánchez, you were the great hope of social democracy in the world and I believe you can continue to be so. There were many demoscopic analysts who said that the success of your party had less to do with your party than with yourself, that after a few primaries, in which you were able to defeat against any prognosis of your party's nomenclature, you had pointed out a different path. There is a Pedro Sánchez who was doing an interview with Jordi Évole denouncing how the oligarchic powers prohibited him from reaching a government agreement with Podemos. I believe that if you continue to hold your hand to the right, to the People's Party and to Citizens, you will destroy a very valuable political heritage that gave you a remarkable electoral victory and I will again hold your hand from here. You made us a proposal in July and we made a counterproposal. I propose that on the basis of these two proposals we should be able to negotiate. The agreement is not going to be satisfactory for us or for you. It is not satisfactory for us to accept a coalition government in which we have been vetoed and in which we are asked to participate very far from the proportionality of the votes we represent. For us that would not be fair or satisfactory, and I know that for you neither, because you do not want a coalition government, but a single party government, but if we come to that agreement, even if it is not satisfactory for you or for us, on the basis of a proposal from you and our last proposal, I believe that it would be gaining Spanish citizenship and that hope could be restored that this country would have a decent government. I'll reach out to you again, Mr. Sanchez. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Mr Abascal Conde has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u20	Thank you, Madam President. The president comes to Congress to tell us his supposed negotiating successes in a pompous language, stating that Spain has returned to the heart of decisions and to the backbone of Europe, and the PP and Citizens come in some way, as was foreseen in the script, to deny those supposed negotiating successes in the European Union. Well, we are not going to be found in this discussion or in the hollow speech that we heard this morning from the President of the Government again in this temple of euphemism, because any Spanish and any European with common sense understand that it is ashamed to recall the rude distribution of armchairs and posts that took place last summer. For us it causes the use of the various positions of the European institutions as prizes or party punishments, as payments of debts or as allocation of quotas between groups and community lobbies. Pedro Sánchez has told us the importance of the armchairs he has achieved and that is the language you all understand, but beyond the parties and interest groups, the fact is that the Europeans don't care whether the Commission is led by Juncker, von der Leyen or Weber, whether Lagarde happens to Draghi or whether Mr Borrell or any other Mr CFSP. By the way, congratulations, Mr. Borrell. We really think that no European citizen will notice the difference unless he lives on the Community budget or participates in the power game of the European oligarchies. You say that things are always done this way and that we are new and that we do not understand, as we were told yesterday, the increase in the committees in this House, and the bad news is that they may be right. Worst of all, it's not the behavior of the president of the government and his hobby of appearing as if in photos with foreign leaders. The worst is that the People's and Citizens' Party also participate in this logic. The worst is that today Europe is divided into two sides: on the one hand, the European Union bunkered in its own interests and, on the other hand, the European citizens who do not see what those interests have to do with them. And you, Mr Sánchez, Mr Married, Mr Rivera and Mr Iglesias, are actually in the same bunker. That is why participation in the European elections has increased, Mr Sánchez; not to support what you believe, but it has increased because more and more citizens are looking for alternatives to all of you. That is why the discussion here today cannot hide the fact that you agree on the important point: to deepen the Europe of blockade and failure, the bureaucratic, oligarchic and despotic formulas that have led the European Union to the current situation of failure. At the heart of today's debate, Mr Casado even said that you defend the same migration policies that they defend. In fact: EUR 24 million more for mining has announced the Community of Madrid yesterday. And Mr. Casado defends - logically because he was his spokesman - Mr. Mariano Rajoy, a registrar of the property who came to tell us that he did not believe in the borders. Take a close look at the votes in the European Parliament or at the Commission's initiatives on substantive issues and they will have to recognise that no citizen will be able to distinguish between the European Union of Sánchez, that of Mr Casado, that of Mr Rivera or that of Mr Iglesias: more institutional bureaucracy, more economic and ideological interventionism and more social engineering. That is why today Mr Rivera and Mr Casado have not come up to this rostrum to talk about Europe. They could not talk about Europe, but about many other things, because in Europe they basically coincide with Mr Sánchez. That is why Mr Sánchez was accused of electoralism today, but they have spoken here about many other issues that had nothing to do with the purpose of the appearance. Mr Married, it seems to me very good that you agree; what is not understood is why you are not going to the elections together. Instead of that Spain Suma you are proposing to right and wrong, and in which you do not even agree, propose Brussels Suma and join all of you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from what the President of the Government has said, there is something that we already knew, and that is that Spain again orbits our French neighbour, which we do not know if he is a partner of you or of Mr Rivera, resubmitting our interests and accepting the leftovers of the Franco-German distribution. Nor is Mr Sánchez original in that, because Rajoy and Zapatero have already done so. The case is that we believe that Spain can be something more in Europe than the obedient buttons of Paris and Berlin. We believe that Spain must be respected in Europe, something which unfortunately does not happen now, because how is it possible - and it has already been said in this House - this morning for a coup player like Puigdemont to remain so campant in the country hosting the European government? Don't you see the affront, or do you care? By the way, Mr. Married, Mr. Puigdemont escaped Mr. Rajoy; Mr. Rajoy who defended the position of the German court and the German Minister of Justice when they refused to hand us over to Puigdemont; and Mr. Rajoy himself. [[Applauds]] We say what not a few ladies and gentlemen think in private: the European Union is today an uncontrolled and voracious machine. We are sure that none of the founding fathers were ever able to imagine that the European Union could ban the use of the car and the plane or tell us what to eat or not according to that new concept that has been invented of climate neutral Europe. This is the term in 'politicians', because in ordinary ecological language it is the chalatura that the chickens rape the chickens. Well, the European Union, as has been shaped by the progressive dictatorship of the left or right, is dedicated to that and to any other whim or madness of the elites or globalist lobbies. It's even worse. These European oligarchies have turned their backs on Europeans by betraying democracy and, in view of the problems they themselves create, point to others who are guilty. Sometimes the culprit is Viktor Orban, sometimes it's Matteo Salvini, sometimes it's further away and it's Donald Trump, or it's Boris Johnson right now or it's the Poles, but the culprits are always the others. There is no spirit of self-criticism in those oligarchies. Never do those European oligarchies that you support make the slightest self-criticism; they have even come to criminalize sovereign nations to Europeans, ultimately when they say no to their projects. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u21	Keep a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u22	Those oligarchies are so blind that one of the great powers has decided to get off the boat and that doesn't even make them reflect. No one has pointed out here the obvious: Brexit is not the cause of our evils, it is the consequence of a suicidal and wrong Community drift.And those European oligarchies have come to tell us now that the British people have been deceived, Mr Sánchez has told us, that it is an ignorant people, that it is evil, rather than thinking what has been done wrong for the British to want to leave. Of course, it must also be said that British rulers were enthusiastic promoters of many of the great mistakes of the European Union, for example of migratory avalanches, whose consequences now suffer a London that is already unrecognizable. In this subject of the Brexit much talk about Gibraltar, Mr Sánchez, but you have all forgotten it for decades, because you have all left the Field of Gibraltar, turning that area earlier prosperous into a colonized territory from the Peñón that prevents its economic development. [[Applauds]] The Peñón is today only a military base and a headquarters of smugglers and tax pirates; more than 300 million costs a year to the Spanish Treasury only tobacco smuggling. Instead of thinking about how to reverse this situation, you only obey the masters of Brussels to get the UK to continue in the EU and, therefore, the populations near Gibraltar to remain in ruins. They only think about how they can hold Gibraltar hostage to Spanish workers, to those nine thousand workers, instead of thinking about how we offer them a future job in the Gibraltar Field. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know or understand that times of uncertainty are coming in economic, social and coexistence in Europe, perhaps that is the only thing we agree on, but the Community institutions are devoting themselves to dictating policies inspired by the ecological, feminist, globalist, all socialist lobbies. As they engage in these distractions, the economy retreats, borders dissolve and there are European soldiers on the streets armoring monuments and very soon protecting Christmas markets once again. Not addressing these problems shows you a surprising community consensus. Is this the model of Europe you want? It's not because there are no alternatives. Faced with this drift from the European Union that is decrepit, abusive and multicultural, we align ourselves with the founding spirit of the European Union that today defends, among others, the Visegrad countries; a model that is growing economically, that generates security in society, that supports families and that defends the values that are genuinely European and not those of the multicultural society that you want to impose on us and that, by the way, is already bearing fruit in Barcelona. We, those whom Mr Sánchez has drawn as the enemies of Europe, want the model of the founders of the European Union, a club where the nations want to be and not a kind of Warsaw Pact where the one who wants to go is chased. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. At the last European Council you outlined the migration strategy Europe that best serves your interests, not those of the citizens. I was surprised by some of his conclusions when I read them, and I quote one textually: 'We need to know who enters the territory of the European Union and it is we who decide access'. That's what VOX says, but when we say it, we get our hands on our heads and they call us xenophobes. You know why? Because what you say is not meant to be fulfilled. They're masters of cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen, do not count on us to participate in this clique policy. We want and defend a Europe that is strong and free of sovereign nations that cooperate freely and that can defend their workers, their businesses, their fields, their culture and their way of life. That is the way and that we will defend in this legislature or in the next, if you want to call elections - here we will continue to defend the same things -. In the meantime, you, Mr Sánchez, confine yourself, once again, to reading here the Council report, not what you have said to defend Spain and the Spanish. Again, a president who comes to read to us what they have dictated to him in Europe. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a few months since the Council and it seems that this from the Commission is already going, and it is going, in principle, for now in a positive way. A joint Commission, a good speech by Von der Leyen - which I think surprised many - which wanted to go beyond what had been done so far, and, in addition, a speech which could bring together various European families in the objectives. Therefore, that experiment can be said to have gone well; not so much the Spitzenkandidaten, because it was a new formula for making a more political Europe, in theory closer to the citizenry, and yet in the end we have seen that these candidates have not been such, but that the old system has prevailed. You, Mr President, were talking about a very important challenge - I think it is too - the multiannual financial framework. The truth is that you have spoken here that you want it to be an agile instrument and that it will be carried out soon and have linked it to the new strategic agenda. But in October there must be talks about it - that is, next month - and the agreement should take place at the end of the year. And you have not explained to us in these months what the Government has been working on, which is what it is going to put forward in October, what is its own vision of that multi-annual financial framework, beyond the four axes of the new strategic agenda to which it has linked it. It would therefore be good to know whether you have delved into how you want that financial framework. And at this point I would tell you that the financial framework is not only expenditure, but also revenue, and I would like to draw your Government's attention to two issues. One is - something that should already be under way - the issue of the single VAT window. Telecommunications operators, electronics, radios, electronic commerce have to tax VAT wherever the end consumers are. In the Spanish State there is not only a complete Treasury but several, and it was decided to set up a working group to meet to see how this was formulated in practice between the Basque Treasury and the Spanish State Treasury. That working group is appointed, it is prepared, it is ready to meet, but there has been no meeting because you have not convened it, so I ask you, Mr President, to convene. And I'm also making another request. There is a project that is important at European level, it is the project of harmonising corporate tax, the consolidated tax bases of this tax, and the objective is to be presented through a single window by the large multinationals. There is a working group that is going to be set up; I ask you that, just as there are full estates, more than one, within the state, and that is also recognised by the European Union, our presence may be possible in the Ecofin working group, but I would tell you that even before, in the OECD, where new technological taxes are being discussed. Three years ago, we were invited by the Spanish Government. If that were possible three years ago, it would also be perfectly possible now, and I think we could work together. He talked about climate change very satisfactorily, he said we have made progress. The truth is that there are four countries that demarcated and prevented emissions neutrality by 2050. Today - to put it bluntly - the European Climate Strategy is a set of good intentions, but it has not been accepted by all countries. I agree with you that we will surely have to do our internal duties, but let's look at it by promoting a comfortable transition, bringing industry hand in hand. Not only a stick, not only an obligation, but also a carrot, because it is true that we have to look at the economy of the future and at future jobs, but we cannot forget the current ones. Therefore, the fact that we can already work on that concrete transition, in practical terms, is extremely important. Mr President, when you said that you are leading Europe, it gives me the impression that what you also wanted to say is that the leader of Spain is taking all these steps. Well, let it be there; but, with regard to putting the first in line, I don't think the Spanish economy is the strongest in the world, as in order to be able to test, because, in case of error, the first one that would break the breast would be to you and the Spanish economy. So, I think it's okay the direction we have to take, but let's not get in the head of the platoon. You spoke of the coherence of the Paris Agreement, but the conclusions of the Councils affirm the right of States to decide their energy mix. It is somewhat contradictory to the political position with regard to Russia, Ukraine, etc., because, in the end, most supplies in Central and Eastern Europe still depend on Russia, even new pipelines are being programmed in this regard. I believe that Europe should consider greater energy independence from that Eastern neighbour. Let me talk about Mercosur. The Minister of Agriculture is coming tomorrow and I suppose he will give the appropriate explanations. I think there is a need for some clarity in this agreement, which we advocate in principle, that is, free trade, that Europe should be the leader in reforming the International Trade Organisation, the rules of trade at world level; we absolutely agree, but I think that explanations must be given. There are a few countries that have reticenced, four: France, Ireland, the Netherlands and Belgium. You have previously made an enthusiastic defence of the CAP, you claim not to come down. Personally, I think that at least it should be transformed, because what makes no sense here is that crops are made that are not later used, that is, broken just to charge for the CAP. And I say Spain, but also France and other countries; I think we should turn this whole thing around. Obviously, the CAP cannot disappear, it has to be important, but perhaps those who are going to suffer most with Mercosur are precisely those agricultural and livestock products. Therefore, I see a little contradiction between what Mercosur can assume and that enthusiastic defence of the CAP. Surely, with the explanations given to us by the minister tomorrow or you later, there is no such contradiction. There is a new strategic agenda, and there is talk of protecting citizens and freedoms. That's one of the axes, which you rated as important. It is literally said: Effective control of external borders and ensuring effective returns. In fact, what we are talking about is this, border control and ensuring effective returns; we are not talking about another migration policy, just border control. And it goes on to say, literally: We have to agree on migration policy and asylum policy. I believe that the time has come for us to distinguish between migration policy and asylum policy, which are two different things and have nothing to do with it, and I do believe that the whole of Europe has to agree, because, today, in my opinion, there is no European migration policy; yes, there are asylum rules, but migration policy as such does not exist. You have said that we must look after Africa, especially Morocco, and that is also discussed in the agreements. Morocco will be a wall, it will be a gendarme, but it is not the solution or where Europe has the challenges or has to face them. In that sense, I take up again the share programme proposed by the Lehendakari and the Basque Government, because I believe that the regions have a lot to say, I think it is possible to agree on migration policy, to admit economic migration and to make an objective allocation of these quotas; I think that we can work together. The other axis is climate-neutral and ecological Europe - on which I have already told you something, but I do not have much time - to promote European values on the world stage, and another important issue is the European model for the future. It is said, literally: A solid economy is of essential importance for competitiveness, employment and prosperity, and I believe that yes, that this is very true, is the basis for being able to build, for being able to make these European values and a social Europe come true. But I would add that a strong and essential economy in Europe requires a strong government, a strong government and that it also exercises here in the Spanish State. Everyone here says they don't want elections, but it looks like we're going to do it. If we are going to an election, let the government, as soon as possible, be at the end of February or March and the budget not before the summer of 2020, and it seems to me that it would not be able to meet those challenges that you have pointed out. I believe that this is an opportunity - I conclude, Madam President - I believe that we are faced with a great opportunity to follow the broad and diverse popular mandate that the ballot boxes gave in April. And a chance for what? To deal with the economic problems and the dangers of a recession that could come next year, so that we can fix it at once and ensure the public pension system, so that we can move forward on social rights and reverse some laws in the labour, security, such as the law on gallows, etc., and so that we can truly face, with a broad majority and dialogue, the territorial challenges posed by Catalonia and Euskadi. It is a great opportunity, and for us to define once again that it cannot all be treated with the same standard, that the national realities in Catalonia and in Euskadi cannot be treated as in any other autonomous community; and to confront the Lofca, a reform of the Lofca, which is absolutely necessary; in short, also and more important, to cool the political climate of confrontation, which is beginning to become something systemic in Spain and which, frankly, worries me. At the moment, after a few months since those elections, the debate has been reduced to coalition, yes and coalition, no. It is difficult to understand that what previously seemed to some to be a humiliation and was not acceptable now is perfectly acceptable...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u25	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u26	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... as it is also difficult to understand that what was worth before for some now is no longer worth. Really, the only ones who can fix it right now are you, and when I say you mean Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, because your teams no longer have negotiating capacity. It will be you, although it is difficult - the good thing of the agreements is that there are no winners or losers -; leading the discussion, as you have led it, to this point, it is very difficult at the end that this can be achieved, but not impossible, not impossible; you have to achieve it. The blockade right now is, I'd say, in your people. It is not impossible, I think there are challenges, I think there is an opportunity, and it is possible if there is will and if there is intelligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor in the first place for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u28	Mr. Sanchez, good morning. Once again you act late and tow, instead of taking the initiative to do what is theirs. That is why, because they give up talking to us, I take the direct opportunity to address you, and to do so in relation to Europe, to start by denouncing the democratic anomaly that, almost four months after the elections, three elected MEPs: President Carles Puigdemont - Mr Abascal, Puigdemont, I am sure that you can, and also, Mr Rivera, not a criminal, as always appears in your wettest dreams; if the failure of the Euroorders may not be a failure of these, but of the accusations, and therefore perhaps not the failure of European justice - Vice-President Oriol Junqueras and Councillor Toni Comín cannot occupy their seats, which correspond to them, and therefore more than a million citizens do not have the political representation that they have voted in Europe. But I suppose this does not concern you, because you are able to fill your mouth with the word dialogue and, at the same time, boast that you will not even meet with us to talk about your increasingly hypothetical investiture. To the independenceists and water, that is the message, and, in fact, that is the fear of criminalizing those we democratically challenge to the State. And so it goes, because, as long as there is no political solution in Catalonia, Spain will live in political instability. But the meetings he attends today had a less disturbing result: it seems that he managed to impose on the Catalan anti-independence obsessed Josep Borrell at the head of European Union diplomacy, someone who is at the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has devoted most of his efforts to discrediting the Catalan institutions, their elected representatives and to violating the presumption of innocence; someone who thinks that everything goes against independence, even spying. But when it turns out we want to find out by asking for your appearance here, the partners of the club Spain appear and it is VOX, Citizens and PP who come to your rescue. But I would like to highlight in the form of a brushstroke two of the relevant issues that form part of the Council's conclusions. On climate change, we are still in a rhetorical state, since the Spanish state is one of the most late in implementing legislation on climate change in the European Union. However, the Government of the Generalitat approved the Llei de Canvi Climàtic, a pioneer in the State, which was appealed, of course, by the Constitutional Court and cut, despite the fact that the Government of the State still has no law. My question is: If the state does not legislate on such a fundamental issue, on which the planet depends and on which there is a mandate from the European Union to do so, why does it also hinder the work of Parliament, which has indeed legislated on the subject, as the European Union demanded? On the issue of misinformation, cyber threats, part of the problem is at home by the government itself, and the most flagrant example is the investment in official fake news that Global Spain is making on the process. But, Mr. Married, review a bit of history: you have been greatly disturbed by this of the Bourbon invasion and that of the chains; by the way you read our anthem, which is where the chains come from. As you all know, today is 11 September and, if we lived in a respectful, plurinational and multilingual state, I could express myself in Catalan in this House and today we would not be here on the National Day of Catalonia; I could use my language, which should feel like you with the same eagerness that you strive to remember what you put in our DNI. But I can't because I live in a state that, in addition to having political prisoners and exiles to vote and allow people to vote - and vote will never be a crime and we will never stop reminding them - calls for full-time parties at the national party in Catalonia. I suppose, with the same exquisite sensitivity demonstrated, you will also summon them on October 12th or May 2nd. That's why, even though today is our national party, I'm here to make you hear the voice of the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who voted for Junts per Catalunya. I know you're not going to like what I'm going to tell you, because I know you don't like what we think or what we vote and maybe you don't even like us voting. That's why I haven't avoided it, that's just why it seems to me good to spend twelve hours of my time for five minutes with you, because I'm immediately going back to Catalonia to join the demonstration that one more year, and it's already ten since someone dedicated themselves to counting, it's going to be massive and peaceful. With all due respect for the demonstrations of one thousand or forty-five thousand people, such as the famous Columbus, I want to emphasize that we are talking about other dimensions. I am talking about a demonstration of hundreds of thousands of people, more than the total number of voters in the general elections of more than one of the autonomous communities represented here. That is why I recommend that you listen carefully to what is late Catalan citizens are going to say from the streets of Barcelona. We are going to tell you - and with this I finish - that you may have the reason for the strength and power of the State, but we continue to align with the force of reason, which sooner or later will bear fruit. Millions of Catalans and also more and more Spaniards believe that repression is the worst way to solve political conflicts. The Spanish State seems ready to demonstrate with suspensions, disinvestments, structural ill-treatment and persecutions that there are no paths to independence. But they do not realize that all this, combined with an ignominious condemnation such as that already intuited and many seem to desire, will be the definitive proof that for Catalonia independence is the way, the only way. We all know that nothing will be resolved as long as they remain in prison or in exile.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u29	Mrs. Borràs...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u30	I'm done, Madam President. All good people should rebel at the injustice of having innocent people in jail and keep them there so that we can pass the delusions of independence to the rest. For I have bad news for you: the democratic tsunami that is being prepared in Catalonia may help you to recover, if not wisdom and justice, yes the sense of politics. It is politics that has to solve the conflict, not hate; it is dialogue, and not batras; it is the ballot boxes, and not the impositions. I'm going back or we're going home and we're going to demonstrate for the 2019 Diada goal, which is nothing other than Catalonia's independence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. The next item is Mr Iñarritu García.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u32	Egun on, good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, why not in Brussels and Madrid? You yourself boasted that, despite the difficulties, forty-eight hours had been locked up in Brussels, negotiating, talking, practically without leaving the building, without sleeping, to reach an agreement. Why don't you do the same with Mr. Churches? Why don't you call him? Why don't the hours that it takes - forty-eight, ninety-six, no matter what, there's time - come to an agreement? Why four months later have you reached the last end of the possible time and you're letting it go? Was it all a scene? You didn't want to form a government? That is what it seems: if in Brussels yes and at home, in the state, no, tell us why you were boasting. Similarly, we saw on 29 June that you welcomed Mr Borrell's proposal to a high representative of the European Union, and today too. You said at the time: Spain has returned, emulating Mr. Margallo's phrase when he was saying Spain is back to the United Nations, and we should be clear whether Mr. Borrell's appointment is a cause for satisfaction for his government or is a consolation prize. I say this because there have been such enlightening headlines as that of an article in the newspaper El País last June 19 that it said: 'Why no one is fighting for the office of 'European Foreign Minister'.' There have subsequently been others, such as in El Confidencial, who say: 'The reasons why nobody in the European Union wanted Borrell's new job'. Tell us if it has been a sacrifice for the Europeanist spirit it has or was to do a job in relation to Catalonia. By the way, happy Diada to all Catalans and Catalans and I wish there was a Diada in which all and everyone could celebrate it in freedom, without political prisoners. [[Applauds]] By the way, he mentioned one of the representatives of the far right that Euroorder has been a failure. In view of the fact that there have been European justices, both in Belgium and Germany, in the United Kingdom and in a country which is not a member of the European Union such as Switzerland, which have determined that these people should not be handed over, perhaps the problem is that of Spanish justice, because it may be that these other justices are not controlled by the back door by political powers. To conclude - I see that time is running out - I agree with the phrase that I mentioned from the incline in which I said that we had to visit the military cemeteries in the European Union to remember what Europe was; also Auschwitz, of course. But also today I think that we should visit the cemeteries of Tarifa or Lampedusa to see what is happening in the European Union, which is in a crisis of values because a humanitarian problem is being answered police and military, as it is in the matter of migration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Iñarritu. I now give the floor to Mrs González Taño.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u34	Good morning, Madam President. Mr President, we have heard you say before - I will read it, to see if it has been serious - that an exciting stage is opening up, which you consider to be an exciting stage in Europe. We knew that this was a government in office, we thought it was a government that was on vacation, but we also realized that it is a government that is in Babia, because you were really talking about abstract subjects. The Brexit for the Canary Islands is not abstract, it has the faces of tomatoes, of cucumber producers, and more than 300 jobs have been lost this summer; it has the faces of the banana trees, which are pending from Mercosur. The Village of San Nicolás, in Gran Canaria, is a municipality in which 75% of its economy depends on the tomato sector, and the same happens in other areas of Gran Canaria or Fuerteventura. Do you know that these sectors, the tomato and cucumber sectors, have been waiting six months for a meeting with the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Development? Six months have been waiting since March. And what about tourism? The United Kingdom is the first distributor of tourists to the Canary Islands, five million tourists visit us every year. What do your government have for this sector, or for the Iberia company, which, as we know, is of British capital? On some islands, like the island from which I come, La Palma, is the only company that unites us with the peninsula. What's going to happen to the Iberia company? What are we going to do to maintain our connectivity on islands that depend on this company? We are seeing that on October 31st, if Brexit finally takes place, we will be in the middle of the electoral campaign. If the Government is now in office, what will happen in the middle of the electoral campaign if the Brexit occurs? What is the government going to do? Mr President, this is a serious matter, it is a crisis that affects to a large extent the strategic sectors for the Canary Islands, such as tourism and agriculture. Do something and do it now. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs González. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The President of the Government has told us today very interesting things about meetings in the European Union. What you have not told us is with which partners in Spain you are going to achieve these objectives, because it is clear that those parties that made it possible for you to be president, such as Bildu, Esquerra, PNV, Podemos, are precisely the groups that have come out here to question all your work in the European Union, even in part of those European institutions. Therefore, you come here to tell you some things that then those who made you president totally disagree. So it is that while you were meeting with world leaders in Biarritz, on the other side of the Bidasoa River they were all, all their partners - those of the band, as Mr. Rivera usually says - manifesting themselves. And among them, some said: Freedom for the imprisoned politicians - they said it in another way, but good -; others said: Freedom for the prisoners of ETA; others said that in Spain there is no democracy; others said that in Spain there is no justice. And those are your partners, that's your government partners, those are the ones you aspire to re-edit the government - that's right, it looks like for free now - and with those you want to build the European Union. Well, Mr Sánchez, you cannot build Europe with those who want to destroy Spain. [[Applauds]] You can't and you shouldn't. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Valencians have learned, sometimes in blows, that Europe is near. That is why we need governments that defend Valencian interests in this Europe. The Valencian economy is a very sensitive economy to what is happening in Europe; an export economy, an economy of services, tourism and, therefore, very sensitive to the challenges that are now facing Europe. That is why we need the CAP to defend the interests of Mediterranean agriculture above the interests of large landowners, who are the co-payers of the CAP. That is why we need a government that defends the interests of Valencians in relation to Brexit; tourism accounts for 14% of Valencian GDP, well above the Spanish average. But to firmly defend all this we need a stable government, a government with a progressive majority, that majority that made it president, that majority that approved the twenty-six decrees, that majority that yesterday approved the law of euthanasia. In short, we have witnessed a negotiating process with many photos and very few advances. A hundred and thirty days have passed and nothing more than one vote has been added, not even ours, and that we met on August 5. There are twelve days left, Mr Sánchez, and given the failure of the negotiating committee, it is probably time for you to get to the helm, for there to be a rudder change. There are twelve days left, meet once and for all or tell us clearly whether we are going to elections because the Spaniards, really, really, are waiting for you to make a gesture, one way or another. The clearer, the more friends; the clearer, the more friends. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u40	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the President for his explanations. I think it is very important that you come here to make your comments in order to complete the Council's official conclusions. For a change, I'm going to focus on the subject. First, we welcome the global agenda that is being planned in the European Union because it is appropriate for the challenges of the present. Secondly, with regard to the Brexit, Cantabria is a region that has strong links with the United Kingdom: we have a very important trade surplus and we have more than 1500 cantabria working in the United Kingdom - I, in particular, have a child, so I am directly affected -. That is why these bilateral agreements that you are proposing seem very timely to me and I think they will be achieved because I do not believe that there is suicide in trade relations. It is known that for the Regionalist Party of Cantabria the first thing is Cantabria, but we are a European party. Cantabria is a loyal region with Spain and in this case to be loyal with Spain is to be loyal with the government that represents it. That's why we're sure we're in good hands. Any government in Spain will always have the support of the PRC, and especially the PRC. They can therefore count on our support for any action abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u42	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are again discussing in this Chamber the issue of Brexit, an issue that began over five years ago when the then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron, announced his star proposal for the 2015 elections: a referendum on staying in the European Union if his party won the elections. The conservative leader thus decided to join the sovereignist wave to improve his electoral results. The bill of the majority he reached was to embrace Farage's Europhobic postulates, but the price of the 2016 referendum continues to be paid by all British in the form of political and social division, economic uncertainty and ungovernability. And the consequences of playing with that fire we see today: it set everyone's house on fire to try to save their own furniture. That is the first lesson we must learn from this whole process. When one approaches the flames of the far right, Mr. Married, Mr. Rivera, it burns; that is the first lesson of Brexit. Overall the Brexit shares essence with Le Pen, with Salvini, with Bolsonaro and with his Spanish delegation, with VOX, as his spokesman has just made meridianly clear. And when you feed the ultra-right, when you agree and assume your proposals, the consequences are what we are seeing in the UK: a divided country, an economy in danger and a conservative party in decay, without leadership and of dubious fate. That should be taken into account. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the substance of what we are discussing today is how to deal with the populist national wave that is spreading across the West and threatening democracy and the European Union. What we are dealing with is something that questions the very foundations of our system of freedoms and the social model that we have built. The European Union is in all likelihood the best project we have created in the last century. Our Manuel Marín said that it is very cold outside Europe, and it is true. Europe does not steal sovereignty from us, Europe gives us the stability necessary to exercise it, that is Europe. [[Applauds]] The Union is undoubtedly a community of interests, and from there it began with the famous de facto solidaritys and the European Coal and Steel Community, but we lack its spirit if we consider our Union to be that alone, Europe is not only the institutions of the Union, Europe is not only a market, Europe is above all a commitment; a commitment to the values of freedom, solidarity and progress. Europe, our Union, is also a hope for millions of people all over the world who look at us and admire us, who tell the whole world that it is possible to combine economic development and social progress, that commitment to others is not in conflict with economic progress but is its basis and the best of its foundations; that a space is possible, as Jacques Delors pointed out, which imprints the mark of humanism in a world that is too harsh. On these principles and in a few decades we have built a Union of Rights and Freedoms that is already part of our own identity. And that is what it is, ladies and gentlemen, if we Europeans do not understand that the attack of extremism on our union in the United Kingdom, but also in Italy, Germany, Austria or Spain is an attack on ourselves, we will not be able to win; if we understand it and act accordingly, we will not be able to win, because there is a large majority that continues to trust and support the European project. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest proof that the European Union is a community is that what happens in the United Kingdom affects us all. Faced with the different scenarios that Brexit can pose, the Government has taken the necessary measures to minimize its impact in Spain. The President has taken account of this in his speech; legislative, logistical and communication measures have been adopted, ranging from the recognition of academic qualifications to customs, social security, health care, commercial relations, residence of cross-border workers or the effect that an outing without agreement could have on the Spanish in the United Kingdom and the British in our country, among many others. I would therefore like to congratulate the President on the leadership he has shown throughout this process, also to the Council of Ministers, to all the ministers and ministers for the work they have done in preparing the different scenarios before which we can find ourselves, and, as the President has rightly said, our country is prepared for a Brexit with agreement or without agreement. The Socialist Group supports in any case the decision of the Spanish Government, aligned with the position of the European Union, and considers it essential to maintain a coherent and united position of the Twenty-Seven. The Spanish and Spanish have demonstrated on every occasion that they have been called to vote that they bring Europe in the heart; with this government we have again placed Spain in the heart of Europe, where the decisions that affect us all are made. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government has also appeared today to report to the European Council. It dealt with issues of enormous importance to our country and to the Union as a whole: the Strategic Agenda for the Union 2019-2024, the multiannual financial framework, the fight against climate change, the rise of misinformation and, of course, the proposal of the candidates for the main institutions of the Union and here they will allow me to highlight my colleague and Minister for Foreign Affairs Josep Borrell, because he will be a magnificent High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. [[Applauds]] Pepe Borrell has a clear track record in defending the European project, a European project with more and more free citizens and more equal opportunities. The election of our foreign minister as high representative, as well as of the European Commission, a new glass ceiling that we broke women, has been thanks to the negotiation of different political families. Pepe, you're proud of our party and our country. [[Applauds]] He said that this was thanks to the negotiation of different political families because it is that, ladies and gentlemen, whether at European or national level, it is dialogue and negotiation with those who think differently what defines politics. The ability to reach agreements and to ensure the general interest is our primary responsibility and must be our road map, it must be in Brussels and it must be here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of us has a duty and responsibility to be useful, that our passage through these seats represents a substantial improvement in people's lives and that goal will not be achieved if we put the partisan or personal interests ahead of those of millions of Spaniards who expect a response to their problems. Europe also needs Spain to have a stable government committed to the Union and with leadership. Therefore, building Europe as an area to be proud of is something that should transcend ideological and political families and all the parents of the Union understood it. The future will not be built by force, they said, but by the patient application of the democratic method and the spirit of agreement. Mr Iglesias, or Members of the United Nations We can, since Mr Iglesias has been absent from the debate, what the Spaniards need is that when we arrive on November 10th we are already applying proposals that improve the quality of life of citizens, that guarantee pensions, that help find jobs for the unemployed, that facilitate access to housing for young people and that fight climate change, but I am also sure that you see with suspicion many of the things that are going on, such as what we were talking about in the United Kingdom, that you would bet on an orderly exit from the United Kingdom of Europe, that you would bet on an intermediate road and on bridges to reach an agreement and I ask you to see what you see for Europe apply here first. You spoke of Italy and set it as an example. It is a good example for many things, also for unstable governments of a short time. I like to put the example of Portugal, of a progressive and stable government for more than a while. That is why I tell you that Spain needs a government, yes, but it also needs a stable government. This is also what Europe needs: that Spain has a government determined to defend a progressive Europe from a left-wing Spain. You said a few days ago, Mr. Iglesias, that the music sounded good to you, because let's get to the letter of the agreement. In this Parliament - we were telling your negotiating committee these days - we have the necessary support because we have the necessary abstentions, we have the experience of twelve months of shared progress and we have a progressive proposal in which we understand, only your political organisation is missing, Mr Churches. We've been waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. I would, however, like to repeat the debate on the point for which we were convened today. The purpose of the appearance is the European Council and very important elements of it which I mentioned earlier in my speech. We are talking about the Council that took place after the European elections, in which we talked about the great participation that there was. Some Member of some parliamentary group said that there was not much participation or that if there was participation it was for the ultra-conservative, ultra-rightist lists of the European Union. Nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen. I want to put this black on white because I think it's important that it's in the Journal of Sessions. The far right - not in Spain - in Europe did not increase in the number of seats in the European Parliament, and that is synonymous with the fact that in Europe precisely citizens have understood that they are other values, the values that represent the French Revolution or the values that are written in the founding Treaty of the European Union, those that have to govern governance, the way and the way to go over the next five years. Therefore, after the European elections with a high turnout, also in Spain, it was in the Council that a strategic agenda was defined that I have to demand, ladies and gentlemen. In the failed investiture speech last July, we raised many issues of proposal for a government over the next four years, with a stable legislature, with a large parliamentary majority, because I am convinced that it will agree that we need to move forward on the ecological transition, on how to address the disruption of digitisation in the field of the labour market, in the educational field and on so many issues on our country's social, economic and political agenda. The only thing I can say is that the road map that is to be opened with this new Commission is a road map that the Government, or at least the government that I proposed in June, shares for the most part. Undoubtedly also the Euro Summit. I've said it before. We are faced with symptoms of cooling, which most likely have nothing to do with European issues, but geopolitical ones, that war not so much commercial but a war for the primacy and digital leadership of China and the United States. This is largely disrupting the smooth running of important sectors for major economies, such as Germany and the industrial sector, and is especially holding back many investments as a result of political uncertainty. In that regard, as many of those who have spoken have rightly said, Spain needs a government as soon as possible, a government in full capacity to address many of the challenges ahead. We all share this, we're not discovering America. Moreover, I can assure you that after fifteen months of government, a few in office, after four elections, ladies and gentlemen, four elections - a general election on 28 April and three elections on 26 May - which the Socialist Party won quite significantly, we are the last to be interested in elections. What we want is for a government and a broad parliamentary majority to implement that agenda that we proposed in July. [[Applauds]] One speaker said: What is the difference between a right-wing Europe and a left-wing Europe? The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group spoke precisely of a great vice-president of the European Commission, Manolo Marín. Manolo Marín was one of the people who launched the Erasmus programme, from which hundreds of billions of young people benefit, not only from Spain but from the continent as a whole during these last generations. And the great virtue of politics, in this case of the Socialist Party or of social-democratic representatives in positions as important as the European Commission or the example of Manuel Marín as Vice-President of the Commission, is that, once launched, there is no government - left or right - to question them. [[Applauds]] That is why the conservative governments in the European Commission have not dared to dismantle the Erasmus programme. For those who say that there are no differences between the left and the right, we say that we are claiming the social democratic policies that have been set up in Europe and Spain, policies that have ultimately been assumed by all parliamentary groups, except by some, such as the Law on Combating Gender Violence, which has resulted in a state pact against gender violence, approved by another administration of another political sign and which we support and right now are implementing to get it started. That is what the Socialist Party does: to assume the good policies of other forces and to claim their policies when they are for the benefit of the social majority of Europe or Spain. Therefore, the strategic agenda, the Euro Summit and the multiannual financial framework in which we have to talk about the common agricultural policy, the cohesion funds, digitisation, employment, education or science and in which there has been an agreement with three political families. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, some Member has come to say something like that as we have forgotten about the Greens. No, I'm sorry, I spoke to one of the Greens spokespersons because the Greens group is quite heterogeneous and not only has a spokesperson and they did not ask to enter the European Commission; and this can be a great lesson for those who are precisely claiming other issues. They said that if the policies being pursued by that Commission were green, green and conducive to the green transition, they would support that European Commission. [[Applauds]] The most important thing is politics, ladies and gentlemen. We need to talk about this. This is the object of the appearance, ladies and gentlemen. We need to talk about Europe, we need to talk about how Spain can contribute to the strengthening of the European project in the multiannual financial framework, in the Brexit, in the Strategic Agenda or in the culmination of monetary and economic union, which has not been mentioned by any of the speakers, nor by the main party of the opposition or by the last one. Economic and monetary union has not been mentioned, when we are playing what we are playing in terms of banking union and in terms of a euro area budget that stabilizes and provides resources and economic policy for moments like the current one of economic cooling. That's what we're summoned here today, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, I am the first interested party in having a government in Spain. [[Laughter]] I understand that the various parliamentary groups after 28 April in their speeches speak of the need for a Government to be in full power in our country. I said before, we don't want elections; I don't want elections. [[Laughter]] The Spaniards have already spoken. [[Applauds]] The Spanish have already spoken, ladies and gentlemen, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group has given 123 seats and the second political force, the People's Party, has been given 66, 16%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u46	He's been given 16% and 66 seats. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, does the government in Spain depend on the government in office and on the Socialist Parliamentary Group? [[Several Members: Yes!-Rumors]] No doubt, yes; of course it is. But it is not only up to the Socialist Parliamentary Group to avoid the elections and there is government; it is up to the 350 Members who are in this House. [[Several Members: No!-Rumors.-Applause]] I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not want elections, that what we want is a strong, cohesive and coherent government that addresses from parliamentary stability and with a stable legislature all the challenges that we have and also within the European continent. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are going to try until the last second, but I also say one thing to you: I insist that it is not only up to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Mr.Married says today, September 11, 2019 is not what he said four years ago, but what he says today, little less that I am a stranger and that the government in office is a stranger to control sessions. Finally, there were ten months without any control sessions of the Government in the office of Mr. Rajoy, who had you as a spokesman in the Federal Executive Commission. It is true that we have been six months, but you begin to discount the electoral periods, in which there are logically no control sessions - and here is the rule of the Congressional Rules - as there are also during the summer breaks. What has been done by this Government and the parliamentary group that supports it, ladies and gentlemen, is an appearance at its own request, there has also been an appearance by the Vice-President of the Government at a specific plenary session to talk about migration, there has also been a call for a permanent deputy, yesterday there was a session of control in the Senate, today there is control of Parliament when this appearance ends, there will also be appearances by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Ecological Transition, the Minister of Development, the Minister of Agriculture... And does Mr. Married come to us with lessons of respect for the Rules of Congress, when they, when in office, practically turned their backs on Congress and the Legislature? [[Applauds]] If Mr. Married's problem is that the data do not support or support the things he says. Mr. Married, believe in truth that you are the leader of the opposition, believe in truth, believe in migrations, believe in brexit. You, Mr Casado, and your parliamentary group in the previous parliamentary term were those who voted against the royal decree-law enabling the Spanish government with instruments to deal with any type of Brexit scenario. [[Applauds]] You, Mr. Married. You guys. And he's telling us about the effect called. Your Honor, if migration did not arrive with this government, migration policy arrived, I have told you many times. There is the public offer of employment - in 2019, 2500 new troops for the National Police and 2,200 new troops for the Civil Guard - when you did what you did during seven years of government was to dismantle public security with the applause and support of the Citizens Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Here are the data, Your Honor: 45% less arrivals and irregular arrivals in Spain during the last few months compared to the time you were ruling. Therefore, I claim that pact for migration. I believe, as I said in my first speech, that it is a structural element of Spanish policy because of the demographic evolution of the African continent, because, of course, climate change is damaging, and very much, the possibilities and opportunities of a very young population in Africa. Therefore, what we need is, as soon as possible, a state policy, not only in our country but also a migration policy at European level, which is what we are defending. Mr Casado, in these innovations he is making to us, has defended the ecological commitment of the People's Party Government. I take seriously the things that Mr Casado says, and therefore I have asked what the People's Party Government has done. For the People's Party in environmental matters what it did was to impose a sun tax; we have seen the new mayor of Madrid, also supported by the deputy mayor of Citizens, question Central Madrid, which is ultimately an element of defense of the health of the Madridns and the Madridns in relation to pollution; what it did was, precisely, to repeal de facto the Coasts Act, the Biodiversity Act; it reduced by 60% the budgets of the Ministry of the Environment, by 40% the staff. [[Mr. García Aegean: Lie!]] Moreover, what was of that, ladies and gentlemen, of the coalition of losers, what was it to respect that governed the most voted list? [[Rumors]] There it is, ladies and gentlemen, there it is, here it is. We have heard a burning defense of environmentalism and the fight against climate change to that political party with which Mr Rivera and Mr Abascal govern in autonomous communities and municipalities. [[applause]] Mr. Married tells me I forget about the economy. Mr. Married, it's true, he has photographic memory and goes up here and recites data. I don't know who does the data to Mr. Married, I don't know who does the data to him or who gives it to him before the elections, because it's back to the same problem. It is true that we argue that, indeed, there is a cooling of the economy, arising from trade tensions, arising from the questioning that is being made by the major powers and, above all, by the United States to a large extent from those trade agreements, from tariff rates, in short, from everything you know. But I'm going to remember some cold data. With regard to gross domestic product, the European Commission's forecasts are that Spain will continue to grow and lead economic growth along with other economies over the course of 2020 and also 2019. The International Monetary Fund has estimated growth at 2.3% this year and at 1.9% next year. The independent authority, the AIReF, estimates a growth of 0.5% in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter, sufficient to achieve without problems the Government's forecasts of 2.2 for the whole year, which are, by the way, quite reasonable, serious and rigorous. We have not pointed to the rise of those forecasts of economic growth in Spain when they began. We remained at 2.2% precisely because we were intuiting some of the issues that are beginning to be overrun by other international bodies right now. He talks about the car sales data in August. You will not have been explained, Mr. Married; I will explain it to you and you will tell your advisor. You know perfectly well - or, if not, your advisor - that the data from last August's sector is due to the fact that in that month there was an exceptional increase in enrolments for regulatory reasons and that, if we compare the data from August's enrolment... No, Mr. Married... If we compare the data... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] Listen to me, really, I'm doing you a favor. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yeah, of course I do, man. Listen to me, Mr. Married, if I tell you unscripturally. Yeah, man, yeah. If I say so, more than anything, so that when you come up here the things you say have some real sustenance. We already know what memory he has, but anyway... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u48	You learn the data well. The data for August of this year are better than those for August of 2017, than those for August of 2018, than those for August of 2016, of 2015, of 2014. Mr Casado, what is happening in Spain is the same thing that is happening in other parts of Europe. Mr. Married, in short, if you continue to believe in the advisor who brings you up here, to the rostrum, to say data that are economically false... And I do not take any gravity away from the economic situation that Europe is experiencing and that the world is living; no doubt, no. I will continue to simply tell you things as they are for you, in criticism, to be right, because that is also good for the government; it is good for the government to have an opposition that is right in criticism, because it makes us better and, therefore, we want to be self-critical. Industry: according to the latest available data - you said that the industry has fallen - industrial production is growing by 1.8% compared to June last year. In exports: exports of goods have grown by 0,9 % annually and have done so against the 2,6 % reduction for imports. As for tourism, to which you also referred in your speech, between January and July 2019 the arrival of tourists has increased by 1.9%, that is to say to continue with this trend, until the end of the year Spain will achieve a new historical record of arrivals of international tourists; and not only is it important, ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of international tourists, but it is also important to increase the expenditure of tourists, because that means that we have tourists with greater purchasing capacity. Just so you remember, Mr Casado, tourism spending between January and July this year reaches EUR 52 360 million, or 3.3% more than in July last year. And already, as a colloquium of this data, which I hope will help and help you to improve at least your opposition work, I would like to say that in the last 12 months, Mr Casado, 94 472 companies have been set up, that is, the same number as last year on these same dates. And with regard to employment, I have to say that, of course, Spain continues to create jobs at a good pace, you say what you say, that in the last 12 months 480 413 jobs have been created and that the total number of members of Social Security is the largest in one month of the entire historical series. [[applause]] Finally, Mr Casado always reminds us of Mr Aznar's best times with an absolute majority; the problem is that Mr Casado has sixty-six seats. He says that when we arrive the socialists we do what we always do: raise taxes - which they went up when they were in government - increase the public deficit, raise the public debt... Little less, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - I say this to the brave -, according to Mr Casado, we are chavistas who, of course, want to ally ourselves with the United Nations. We can return unemployment, the public deficit, the high taxes... Logically, they can't talk about corruption because that's the heritage of the People's Party, as we're seeing. [[Applauds]] But for your peace of mind, Mr. Married, the deficit - listen to me well - is under control. [[Rumors]] Yes, the government deficit at the end of 2019 will be 2% of gross domestic product, which means a 0.5 point reduction in gross domestic product compared to 2018; that is, we will be doing something right, Mr Casado. In order to be credible in the responses and leadership of the opposition, you must base your opinion and criticism on data that are reliable and real: 0.5 points of GDP compared to 2018 of reduction of the public deficit and, look, Mr Casado, 1.1 points of deficit lower than the year 2017. There is something that you should also incorporate into your analysis about the economic situation and about the evil socialists, which we always raise public debt and increase the public deficit because what we want is to subsidize those chiringuitos that want to dismantle the ultra-right with which the People's Party and Citizens govern in many municipalities and autonomous communities. Mr Casado, our public debt has been rewarded on several occasions in recent months. Spain generates confidence, the government will issue less debt this year than expected, the gross issue will fall below €200 billion in one year, for the first time since 2012, and the objective we hope to achieve remains to reduce the ratio of public debt to 95.8% of GDP as compared to 97.1% in 2018. [[Applauds]] Then Mr. Casado comes and tells us that what happens to the autonomous communities, that why we do not give them the advances on account. By the way, with regard to this which you say the Spanish Government does not appear, yesterday was the Minister of Finance in the Senate answering these questions. You could have read the Minister's appearance or followed your broadcast to learn a little about the issues that the Minister of Finance says and not to fall into obviations such that when you, Mr. Married, led the opposition in the previous legislature, you voted against and prevented the Senate from increasing the objectives of budgetary stability for the autonomous communities and rejected the State's General Budgets. [[Applauds]] Of course, if there is finally no government with full powers, we will try to help the autonomous communities, because we are talking, first of all, about the economic resources they need to contribute..., yes, to contribute to the welfare state. [[rumors]] [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u50	If you have it very easy, gentlemen of Citizens and gentlemen of the People's Party. If you want your autonomous governments to have the necessary resources, it is very simple: abstain and facilitate a government. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Sure, man, if you have it very simple. It's not that hard. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Make that effort, abstain. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u51	Excuse me, Mr. President, for a moment. Please, I beg your silence, respect the speaker's word and there will be an opportunity to answer him. [[Several Members: No, no]] Yes, your spokesman will answer. Please remain silent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u52	If you have it very simple: abstain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests]] Yes, because I hear them giving... yes, I hear them giving lessons in patriotism, constitutionalism. [[Protests]] They come to say that the Socialist Party is no longer a socialist party, that it is a sanchist party, outside the Constitution, that we have a band. There seems to be a plan out there; I don't know, you'll have to explain it. I, when I submitted to the investiture, said: What have the Spaniards voted for? What does the Socialist Party want? Why were we summoned on April 28th? For precisely because the independence forces joined the conservative bench to overthrow budgets, this incapacitated the sustainability of a progressive government after the motion of censure. This is forgotten; in short, it is a little forgetfulness that you do, no problem. I remember because I think it's important for the Spaniards to know what's going on. I will tell you one thing: I proposed a progressive government that did not depend on the independenceists and it turns out that those people who do not want independence to influence politics what they want with their vote against an investiture of the Socialist Party - which has won the elections, Mr Casado, I remind you - is to have a government that depends on its governability of the avatars of political parties that precisely what they want is to break the coexistence between all. Look at this, Your Honor, because I think it is important: you have also referred to the consumer index, you have referred to the Centre for Sociological Research and you have come to say this again that Mr Tezanos, the director of the CIS, is cooking the surveys. Anyway, I didn't believe Tezanos when he said the People's Party was going to have 16%. [[Laughter]] I was the one who didn't believe it. Man, a little humility, Mr. Married. [[Laughter and applause]] But let's get on with the Center for Sociological Research. In November 2017, the concern of the Spanish population, with 29% - the second concern after employment - was Catalonia; in January 2019, 6.8%. Something will have to do with the Government of Spain and how we are focusing on the situation in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] The CEO, who is the Catalan CIS, ladies and gentlemen, in July also published something that seems important to me to claim here. Right now we have the lowest level in the last two years - and it is still very high, 44% - of support for independence in Catalonia and only, Mrs Borràs - is gone now, isn't it?; has come, has told us his manual and is gone -, 9.1% of Catalans support unilaterality. [[Applauds]] I believe that, moreover, in these questions of application or not of Article 155 there is already a pre-election aroma, because you come back with pardon, right, Mr Rivera, Mr Married?, you come back with 155. Mr. Rivera, if you guys get Venezuela, ETA and 155, I don't know what's coming here to tell you. [[Laughter and applause]] Liberalism and centrism in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has a good reference in Mr Rivera: ETA, Venezuela and 155. [[Rumors]] All right, Mr. Rivera. The truth is that you blame the government and also me for the six months, and I try to tell you that it is six months, but that there is a summer period in which you have not done much either. [[Laughter]] There is an election period, but we have appeared; I am appearing at my own request, also yesterday in the Senate. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: Come on, man!]] Mr Rivera, I thank you for listening to me for the first time and, look, I'll tell you one thing: let's see if one day we can talk about you and me. [[Laughter and applause]] Everything is left to Mr Villegas, Mr Rivera, and Mr Villegas has a lot of work to do; do a little bit and acknowledge the democratic legitimacy of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Look, you're so monarchic... yeah, you're very monarchic, aren't you? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Me?]] I think so, don't I? [[Rumors]] It seems to me that you are and you defend the constitutional monarchy and these things. [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: And you don't?]] I do, of course I do. But, Mr Rivera, if I say so, it is because you too should recognize the legitimacy of that candidate who was precisely appointed by the head of state to attempt an investiture in July. [[Applauds]] Just for that. It is a question of form, I repeat, it is a question of form. I, Mr Rivera, sympathize with Congressman Villegas because he has a lot of work to do. But, look, you reproach me, Mr Rivera, about the six months, but it's just that you've been saying the same thing for fifteen months: ETA, 155 and Venezuela. Can't you innovate? Can't you read, I don't know, the royal decree-law - which, by the way, you supported - of validation precisely for the Brexit? The great innovation that you have made, Mr Rivera - I say this to you because perhaps some advisor has not commented on it - has been to announce that you can vote against the Commissioner of Justice who has proposed precisely the liberal family. That's where I leave it. Anyway, since you're a liberal... I tell you more than anything to let you know, that you can represent the only party within the liberal family that votes against a Liberal Justice Commissioner. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivera, in relation to Catalonia, with all the things we've been through... Indeed, at the time when I led the opposition and you supported the People's Parliamentary Group, we were living in a situation of extraordinary gravity, as was the implementation of 155 after what happened on 7 and 8 September and also on 1 October. What I'm telling you is that in these kinds of issues the less overacting the better. In other words, I believe, Mr Rivera, that the calm force of constitutionalism, of a responsible and serious government, that what he wants is precisely to strengthen coexistence and not to spoil it even further and to give arguments to independence, is what can help us to restore the situation in Catalonia. [[rumors]] Mr. Rivera, I say this with the utmost respect: you come here, you go up to the rostrum... It's a young game. How long have you been, 12 or 13 years? [[Rumors]] I mean, how long, 13 years? [[Laughter]] Thirteen years, first in Catalonia and then in Spain. Okay, fine. I mean it, I don't want to... [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I say this because you come up here, in the rostrum, to give us lessons of commitment in the fight against terrorism, and I say to you in a calm and very forceful way, Mr Rivera, that before you were as a political party, the PSOE, with 140 years of life, paid with your life - with your life! - the defense of democracy and democratic freedoms. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Mr Iglesias, you have spoken about Europe, but it comes into the matter of governability and, logically, you are talking about a coalition government again. Take the example of Italy. Well, after World War II Italy had 65 governments, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] I say this more than anything because perhaps the coalition government is not synonymous with stability or with a guarantee of stability and sustainability throughout a parliamentary term. I think it's always good news that the far right comes out of the Italian government. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that issues such as coherence, such as cohesion - that there are no two governments in one - are the ones that can ensure that there is a coalition that persists over time with a stable legislature, which is precisely what Spain needs to tackle all its transformations. I also say one thing, Mr. Iglesias, and I say it with all due respect: I do not think there is a single formula for us to understand. We proposed in July a coalition formula that you rejected. They rejected a vice-presidency with social content; rejected the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs; rejected the Ministry of Equality; rejected the Ministry of Science and Universities; rejected the Ministry of Agriculture; rejected Migration; rejected Cooperation; and even qualified them as doghouses. [[Mr. Turrion Churches makes negative gestures.- Rumors]] Yes, yes; in the media it comes out that United We can... [[Rumors]] Well, not the doghouses, but the flowerhouses; that's what some of their negotiating teams said. They even came to say, Mr. Iglesias, that, man, a Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs had no competence, no public employees, that for what a Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs on the part of the United States We can. And I tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias: without wanting to, you and your group do what they do is legitimize the discourse of conservatism. Precisely, if we start with what we want from the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs, what we want from the Ministry of Housing or what we want from so many other ministries, what happens, Mr. Iglesias, is that in the end public action is limited or not recognized the potential it has. [[Applauds]] And I tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias: if the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party exists, it is precisely for there to be a General Law on Public Health that guarantees universality. [[Applauds]] If the Socialist Party exists, it is precisely so that there is not a Ministry of Equality - which did exist - but a vice-presidency where Equality is resident to promote policies of gender equality and combating gender-based violence. It does not seem to me to be minor matters that can be despised as you despised them in July, Mr. Iglesias. In any case, I'm telling you, there's not a single formula for us to understand each other. Not only is there the coalition. I know that you consider that if it is not within the government or is not United We can not within the government there is a progressive government, because we are right-wing people, we throw it on the hill, we will always agree with the PP and with Citizens. But do you know what's going on, Mr. Churches? That he does not sympathize with what he says, because they did what they did was cut public health and we recovered it was the universality of public health; they did not propose an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage and you and we voted in favour of an increase in the historical interprofessional minimum wage, which did not occur since 1970. We, Your Honor, have set up a national system of dependency that they dismantled when they were seven years ahead of the Government. I read your interviews, I follow you very carefully, Mr. Iglesias, and you came yesterday to say in that interview in Raw Meat or in Russia today little less that it gives the same thing that governs the People's Party or the Socialist Party, because you have come to change things, and if you are not within the government, then there will be no progressive government. I tell you, Mr. Iglesias, that before you - believe me, I tell you with all humility, because I was not there - there were other presidents of government and other ministers who rebuilt the welfare state, who expanded rights, freedoms and who have the acronyms of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what I say to you, Mr. Churches, is that there is not a single way of understanding, there are many. This is a government that is going to have 123 seats in the Socialist Parliamentary Group and therefore we are going to have to agree on many laws, we are going to have to carry out many policies and we can do them together. I was telling you a few days ago that the last parliamentary term was added between the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the United Nations.We have 151 seats, I think I remember; today we have 165 seats. We can do a lot of things, Mr. Churches. Why then do you - if we saw that the coalition was inviolable in July - at least not study, weigh and value the proposal for an intermediate road proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group? [[Applauds]] If you have proposals to make, Mr. Churches, make them, there is the negotiating table. Of course, we are willing to listen to what your proposals are, but I will tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias: there is not a single way of understanding between the Podemos Union and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, there are many others. Allow you with an affirmative vote to run a progressive legislature, with a progressive government, which is what the Spanish voted. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, I hope I have responded to your concerns about the governance of Spain. He made a reference to the multiannual financial framework. I think I've been pretty clear about what I said in my exhibition. We welcome the European Commission's proposal on the available gross national income of what the Community budget can represent. I said in my speech that we want this budget to be effective in 2021 and that, of course, the position of the Spanish Government is going to be to defend a common agricultural policy and the cohesion funds at the levels we have, because, indeed, we are talking about very important sectors for our country. EH Bildu blames me for the appointment of Mr Borrell as a high representative of the European Union and blames him precisely for defending the Constitution and territorial integrity. Well, I think it's a good reprimand, it's a good reprimand and, of course, we feel very proud of it. Compromís tells me about agriculture. We, in the Royal Decree-Law and in all the actions we are taking in relation to Brexit have been very clear: we are going to defend the common agricultural policy. Coalition Canaria tells me about tomato and cucumber. I have said, Your Honor, that in relation to this - which I know is very important for the Canary Islands - we are in contact with the Canary Islands Government, and not only in communication, but also in maximum coordination. I have to remind you of one point, and it is that the Community legal system, in particular Article 349 - I am drawn up here - of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, offers the possibility of adopting specific measures in the outermost regions of the European Union, including the Canary Islands, aimed at compensating for the effects of the permanent and cumulative structural handicaps that they suffer. Without ruling out any option, Your Honor, we are currently working at a technical level to study the possibilities of adapting freight and Posei subsidies in the case of a hard Brexit. The PRC referred to the European Council. Thank you, Mr. Mazón, for your explicit support. I always support the Socialist Group in its speeches. Thank you, Mrs Lastra, for your speech, for making things clear. We have many years of life, we have a lot of politics, as an organization, behind our backs. We understand that politics is not personal; we do not feel humiliated, we do not feel any imposition. We want the best for our country; we want, of course, a progressive legislature, a progressive government, which is what the Spanish voted for, and it is chaired and led by the Socialist Party. What I hope, Mrs Lastra, is that you will be listened to by the rest of the parliamentary groups and that we may soon have an investiture, to be possible without an election in the middle, and that it will not really break what the Spanish said on 28 April: that they want a progressive government and that they want to the right where they are, in the opposition. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and members of the Government in office, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u54	Mr Sánchez, I have pointed things out because I see that you are offended that we know the figures and that, although I must have an economic adviser and not 670 like you, let us come here with the duties done. [[Applauds]] So I'm going to explain what you said. [[The lady]] The only thing we get out of this debate is that you have shown your true face, you have taken off your face. In the end, that halo of moderation, that solemn and empty imposture has succumbed to the agony that we have already uncovered its true pretension, that it was to be in permanent electoral campaign, because you are unable to govern and simply want to be in electoral campaign. He has told his preferred partner, and he has given it to the opposition bench with discretion. You see, I've seen him decomposed; I've seen him decomposed and he's probably going to be upset by his gurus and his head photographers, who think that being president of the government is simply getting on a plane or just doing an Air Force grape training. [[Applauds]] I'll tell him he's also proved the falsehoods. He comes here to face us that the Brexit is from the far right, when his friend Corbyn supports him and it is with whom you danced here in Madrid. You come here to say that the music sounds good to you, and we already told you that when the music ends and that chair dance ends we don't know if you're the one who runs out of pair or Mr. Iglesias is the one who runs out of chair. He comes here to talk about the European Union and what the socialists have done, forgetting that the four founding fathers, the four, were Christian Democrats and Conservatives: Monnet, Schuman, Adenauer, De Gasperi. [[Applauds]] What do you tell me about Mr. Manuel Marín? You come here to say you want to go back to the heart of Europe, plagiarizing Zapatero. By the way, Zapatero was about to need a heart transplant, but that, yes, he came with a pacemaker, which was the troika, and with a baipás, which was 135 of the Constitution, which you voted for and that now we don't know if he likes it or doesn't like it. [[Applauds]] He comes here to talk about Mr. Borrell who, by the way, I don't know what he's doing here. Mr Arias Cañete was criticized because he left the minutes of the deputy and the ministry fifteen days before the election campaign, and Mr Borrell, a commissioner in pectore, comes here as a minister. For example, you are not talking about the other minister who was going to be the manager of the IMF, another success assured in the words of another blue banker. Therefore, do not come here to boast of what you do not have, Mr Sánchez, and above all do not come here to stress that you are not able to form a government. You told Mr Rajoy in this very rostrum that the sole responsibility for government formation rested with the candidate. You have been playing with Spain for a whole year and you are already synonymous with instability: in 2015 because you were not able to accept a coalition government proposed to you by the People's Party; in 2016 because you resigned as secretary general so as not to avoid a third election in which there was no alternative, you only joined in a way other than with the technical abstention of the Socialist Party; now you have four other alternatives before you touch the door of the People's Party, by the way, not punching it, insulting it and painting it with slanders as you did today. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] In 2018 you charged a government with a motion of censure with the partners you now deny and, in 2019, you are unable to form government and want to blame others. But you're also synonymous with being unable to make a deal. You were able to destroy the Socialist Party in such a way as not to abstain, and that seems very good to me. [[Rumors]] He then agreed with the People's Party on article 155 and signed the motion of censure a few weeks later. You've reached an investment agreement with Citizens and now you're not able to sit with them. You agreed to a motion of censure with Podemos and now you keep insulting them. In short, like Attila, where you pass the grass does not grow, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] However, he asks me for humility. Mr. Sánchez asks me for humility, which, coming from a person as humble as you, sincerely produces hilarity. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] The data I present, to your regret, are from the EPA, the IMF and the Labour Force Survey and the INEM. I have to tell you one thing: that you talk to me about corruption, that you, who have two presidents of the Socialist Party sitting on a bench and the current president of the Socialist Party in an investigation - by the way, of the Department of the Environment - make me stupor. However, I am not like you, I will not hold you responsible for what happened decades ago in the Socialist Party. [[Rumors.-The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado, pronounces words that are not perceived]] I am not going to do this, but I do not tolerate you trying to hold me responsible for what happened in the People's Party decades ago and that, fortunately, in a rule of law the judges will have to judge it. [[Applauds]] What I will not do is insult the judge who judges Griñán and Cháves, nor will I enter with any of the accused by another door, as one of his predecessors did. [[Rumors]] Look, he asks us to abstain with unsettled boxes and you also pass from not to yes because yes, but it is no longer what he says, but the tone in which he says it. I remind you again that abstention is impossible, to begin with because you do not want it, because you do not ask it and because you humiliate your partners, but above all because you have agreed in Navarre with Bildu, and I would be ashamed, with eleven comrades of the Socialist Party murdered by the terrorist band ETA, which pacts with the heirs of Batasuna who have not yet condemned terrorism. [[the minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado: yes you do!]] [[Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: With Bildu, no]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] That's why it's impossible for us to compromise anything, Mr. Sanchez. It's impossible because you agree with the Spanish Le Pen. [[intercomating with your fingers]] [[The President, Ms Batet Lamaña, took the Chair.]] Do you remember who - are your words - the Spanish Le Pen? Mr. Torra, with whom he then walked through the Moncloa. He has agreed in the Barcelona Diputation, passed in Badalona, he has agreed in Castelldefels.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u55	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u56	I'm done. They say that in the People's Party, if we don't talk about Puigdemont, Maduro or ETA, we run out of speech. Well, if you don't talk to Bildu, Esquerra and Podemos, you run out of government, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] That is the difference: we with democracy and you with those who want to break Spain. At least it has been sincere, it has admitted, in a rather impertinent way, that if we want to have funds for the autonomous communities - help has said - let us abstain; that is, you as President of the Government in office are blackmailing autonomy with education and health funds by saying that we abstain. [[Applauds]] In short, it speaks of inequality the party that has created 3 million unemployed to the party that managed to create twice as many jobs; it speaks of inequality the party that ruled, and we had to come here to halve the figure of youth and women unemployment; it speaks of inequality to the party that had to raise the wage gap by 4.5% - reduce it, forgive it, the one that you left -; it speaks of inequality when we had to reduce the severe poverty that that doubles the rate of the eurozone when you left the government; it speaks of dependence and we had to come down half the waiting list; it speaks of education and we had to come down school drop by 8%! It's just unusual! [[a lady MP: Ah!]] [[Applauds.-The Minister of Finance in office, Montero Quadrado, delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u57	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u58	I'm done, Madam President. I told you one day that you come to demand everything in exchange for nothing, to forgive us our lives in exchange for us to extend yours, to make you president for our sake, to turn your opponents into your subjects, and that can't be because, you know why, Mr. Sanchez? The habit doesn't make the monk. For many image advisors who have, for a lot of help, for a lot of airplanes, for a lot of photos, it has already become clear that you want choices and that you do not give the size for the position you occupy. You are already the worst president in the history of democracy, what I hope is that it is the shortest. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u59	Thank you, Mr. Casado. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u60	Mr. Sánchez, you have frivolized here with a dictatorship and what many Venezuelans are suffering in your country. He has frivolized with ETA and with the deaths of ETA and the victims. [[Rumors]] I'm going to read to you and I'm going to show you a letter that's not mine or any of the citizens' comrades: Dear Mikel, in everyone's view, the secretary general of the PSE cooked with Arnaldo Otegui the Christmas Eve dinner. Not in my name. I'm begging you, I'm leaving PSOE. José María Múgica, son of Fernando Múgica. [[Applauds]] This is not my opinion, Mr Sánchez. [[showing a card]] [[Applauds]] Because, Mr Sánchez, you are mistaken: when Ernest Lluch was murdered not only because he was socialist, but because he was Spanish. When Miguel Ángel Blanco was killed not only because he was from the People's Party, he was killed because he was Spanish and defended Spain. [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado: So what?]] When Ortega Lara was kidnapped for being a prison officer, they did so for defending Spanish democracy. Mr Sánchez, it's not all about being a socialist, I care more about my country and it hurts exactly the same as killing a socialist than killing a popular person who's in VOX. [[Applauds]] Not only Mr. Múgica, but I also blame him for making a pact with Otegui; I blame him for our country, not because it is socialist, popular or citizens', that is the least; I blame him because you know, like many people, that this has happened. That people see a person who has not yet asked forgiveness for all those murders, that in Catalonia there is a gentleman who supported the attack on Hipercor, the attack on Vic's headquarters, who killed people, journalists, politicians, councillors, citizens on foot of any sign, and that you legitimize the pact with Batasuna for the first time in democracy, that is outrageous for Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] Mr. Borrell, Mrs. Lastra has told you that you are proud of your trajectory. Beyond that, as a partner I tell you one thing: when the Senators of Esquerra spit him out again, he will not defend Adriana Lastra, he will defend the Citizens' stand again. [[Applauds]] I am joined by many more things than separate us, be you socialist, be I liberal or be another conservative. That is the spirit that I would have to ensure in this House and not the sectarianism that Mr Sánchez is defending, by dividing Spain again into two, criminalizing the opposition and legitimizing those who want to destroy our country. Mr Sánchez, you have acted here as a blackmailer of the autonomous communities, as Pablo Casado said before and you were right. It's just that you've come up here to tell them: if you want to charge what's yours, because you're a state, then back me up and give me a blank check for me to be president. But what is this? What is this? It is having a very hard face and disrespecting millions of Spaniards who wait for dependence, for health or for education. [[the minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado: ehhh!]] That's what you've done. [[Applauds]] That is, that in Andalusia, the Community of Madrid, or the Community of Castile and León or that of Murcia - I understand that where you or the People's Party ruled or where you govern - you basically ask everyone to surrender: Hands up, abstain because, if not, you do not charge for dependency or, if not, you do not charge for health or education. But what is this? How do you want us to support you? You're a danger! We cannot have a president in office who is blackmailing citizens to support you and let you rule as you please! Mr Sánchez, democracy is about dialogue and agreement. You don't know. You're failing. He doesn't even agree with his partners. It insults its partners in other autonomous communities. You have reached agreements with Podemos in many communities and with nationalists and independenceists, but here you don't want to. You say you don't want elections. The whole House has laughed! The whole House has laughed! Beyond my differences with other parties, I understand that forming government is agreeing. I have agreed with the People's Party disagreeing on many things, but looking for common points: in Andalusia, Madrid, Castile and León, Murcia and in four hundred capitals of this country. You're not capable. You believe that you are the center of everything and the protagonist of everything and that you have absolute majority, and you do not have it. It has a simple majority and has to come to an agreement. If you fail, you fail, you do not fail Spain; do not blame the 350 Members of this House. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, we have reached agreements and if there are elections and we can form a government we will; but I only ask one thing: that they are not so gross to cover up the shame. [[Rumors]] All you have to do is say here: I change EREs for Gürtel and the thesis for final career work. [[Applauds]] Dissimulate a little, that you have to come to many agreements. Don't make it so gross and don't make it so explicit because a lot of people are offended. Me too. So, if there is to be agreements, please stop covering that up, split up the judges and all that they have done until other political parties like Citizens have arrived in this House. Finally, Mr Sánchez, you said here: let me see when I can talk to you, Mr Rivera. All right, Mr. Sanchez, let's talk. Mr Sánchez, if you like, you and I will meet tomorrow to see how Article 155 applies in Catalonia. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Let's get together. Let's talk. Don't you want a dialogue? Don't you want dialogue to implement the Constitution? So what are you doing when you say there's no dialogue? I'm holding your hand, with all the discrepancies we can have, just like you had with Mr. Rajoy. You met with Mr Rajoy to apply 155 and so did I, and we disagree on many things. I disagree with you in many things, but we have to apply 155 to contempt and disobedience. Mr. Sánchez, I ask you, do you think this is a joke? Are you laughing at 155? I'm Catalan and it doesn't make me fucking funny that they laugh at what happened in Catalonia, in my land. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u61	Mr. Rivera, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u62	I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, you have time to speak and I don't have time. Accept a meeting tomorrow to see what competencies, at what time and how we require the implementation of the 155 constitutionalist parties as we then did. [[Rumors]] Yes or no? Do you want dialogue or is this all a theater? Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u64	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to clarify some of the curiosities. Mr Sánchez, you have said that there have been sixty-five governments in Italy since World War II. Well, in Spain since 1939 there was a dictatorship. I do not know whether we are in a position to make certain criticisms of Italian democracy. [[Applauds]] They also had since 1948 an anti-fascist Constitution that laid to a large extent the foundations of our 1978 Constitution and established some of the principles of the welfare state. Mr Casado, you have been forgotten by one of the founding fathers of the European Union, Altiero Spinelli, who came from the Italian Communist Party. Another curiosity. You have said here, Mr Sánchez, that you are a monarch, which has drawn my attention. It seems very respectable to me. I thought you were Republicans, but you supported the constitutional monarchy, and yet when you told Mr. Rivera you're a monarch, Rivera said, "I?" Let them register me! [[Laughter]] Curiosities for history that will be collected in the Journal of Sessions. By the way - and more seriously - your speech has drawn me to the attention that you have devoted forty minutes to addressing the benches on the right and only five to addressing us. [[Rumors]] You have returned - I think that reveals who you want to agree with - to ask for the support of the People's Party and even told Mr. Married: But, man, Paul, if I'm doing you a favor. I think I would do you a favor if you forced the Spaniards to vote again, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] He said something to relieve me. He said: I am very interested in a government and I do not want elections. In the same situation in which you are now there were the Socialist candidates from the Valencian Community, Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Aragon, Navarre and La Rioja. What did the six of you do? A coalition government where we were and sometimes other political formations. That's because you're interested in forming a government and there's no election. Are you going to tell, Mr Sánchez, the Presidents of the Valencian Community, of the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Aragon, the Canary Islands and La Rioja that they do not have a government but two governments in one? Why is what is valid for six autonomous communities, where you preside over the government, not valid for the state? That's very difficult to explain, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] You have said that you wanted to highlight the experience of twelve months of progress. But if we continue with Montoro's budgets! The result of a minority Government was that we were not able to move forward with the General Budgets and the elections had to be repeated. Is that what you intend us to do, to continue with Montoro's general budgets? Or do you think that without a coalition government, with 123 Members, they will carry out general state budgets? It is impossible, and Spain deserves a parliamentary majority to carry out budgets. [[The Minister of Finance in office, Montero Quadrado, delivers words that are not perceived]] The twelve-month experience translates into the fact that we have today - yes, Your Honor - Montoro's budgets. [[Applauds]] He said he wants a strong government, with a strong parliamentary majority. Is that possible with 123 deputies? And I say 123, yes, because if you ask for abstention from the People's Party and Citizens you're saying you want to rule with 123. Or are you really proposing to us that you will reach an agreement with the People's Party and pretend that we will give you parliamentary stability by reaching an agreement with the right? At the time when you are asking the right for support, you are saying that you do not aspire to stable parliamentary support, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] He said the Spaniards voted for a progressive government. I agree, but then, what do you say, that this progressive government has to represent 7 million citizens who voted for them, but the 3.7 million who voted for us cannot be represented in that progressive government? So it despises almost 4 million citizens who are progressive, who are left-wing, but who did not vote for you. To you they say: There are 7 million citizens who have the right to have their representatives in government, but the 4 million who voted for the United We may not. Do you think it is reasonable, with 123 Members, to disrespect so many left-wing voters who have not given their support? I believe, Mr President, that no. [[Applauds]] To finish. He said something that caught my attention. He said to Mr. Rivera, "Let's see if one day we can talk about you and me. Do you know how many times you've phoned me since the failed investiture? Zero. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!]] You wrote me a very kind message congratulating me on my fatherhood and I thank you, and I thank you for having maintained a good personal relationship, but do you think it is serious about Spanish citizenship that since the failed investiture you and I have not spoken on the phone once? Do you think it's serious to let go of the whole month of August and the whole month of September? I'll have to call him myself, but it seems to me that that means jumping a very obvious protocol and that it's the candidate who has to take off the phone and make the phone calls. [[Applauds]] I'll make you a proposal again.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u65	Mr. Churches, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u66	Let's sit down with you and me and get to work and, if we don't, unless people can't take offense because we don't devote the time we need to find an agreement. I would ask you that the condition of possibility for us to reach an agreement is that neither you nor I should back down. You vetoed me. You said: The only stumbling block for us to make a coalition government is that you are not. I retired and my withdrawal was not worth twenty-four hours or seventy-two hours. I assume that this veto is now part of the conditions for us to have a Government. You said: The only stumbling block for a coalition government in this country is for you to withdraw. I remain in the same position: I ask you to respect at least your word. You said there was only one stumbling block. If you and I start from what we said, I think there's still a chance that we won't take this country to elections. Thank you so much. [[Rumors.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand.-Applause from Mr Iglesias Turron addressed to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. After this story and these lamentations of love, betrayal and jealousy, of 'call me you', of 'you have devoted five minutes to me and you have devoted more time to the bench of the right', of 'you have put more messages to me' or of 'you have called me less', we will go back to what we were dealing with here today, although it seems that all groups resist. But I can't do it without expressing my surprise, because I didn't expect a deputy to come down to this rostrum to laugh at the pronunciation I used when referring to a beat-up fugitive. I said 'Puidemon' without any intention, because it's like I read it and because I don't know how to say it otherwise. Mrs. Borràs, if you want me to say 'Puchimon' or 'Puchdemont'. Call him whatever you want. I am as disgusted by his linguistic racism as the ideological racism of the Basque Nationalist Party. Whoever has to pronounce the name of Mr Puigdemont is the court that has to judge him and that will have to lock him up for renegade and for beating. [[Applauds]] However, what we were coming here with Mr Sánchez was reproaching the other groups that had spoken about other issues, although he did the same thing was to talk about Europe, to talk about the European project, so tell us what is important, which is what they have not answered. What party in this House is going to go to Europe to defend our field and to defend our mistreated industry, which supports almost Soviet regulations from Brussels and which is then forced to compete with Chinese products and South African oranges? In their general and hollow speeches they have not made any mention of the problems of many Spanish companies and farmers, not a single word. Tell us, Mr Sánchez, how will our companies and our farmers compete with those who produce with slave labour and without regulations of any kind and with non-Community products? What party will go to Brussels to defend the actions of our public servants, our guards and our police officers on the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, to demand more material, human and legal means and also to demand legal and political support that they do not have? Perhaps you have advisers who inform you and give you data, but we have spoken to the civilian guards and national police who are on our borders, who do not feel supported, who say they have no material means and who have to resign themselves to the avalanches of people who attack them, and who sometimes seriously attack them. [[Applauds]] Which party is going to defend them against those who say we can't defend our borders? What party will defend the legitimate interests of European citizens, of precarious workers, of the unemployed and of pensioners in the face of these claimed rights of reception, of social assistance and of health care which are the protagonists of migratory avalanches? Which party will defend you in Europe? What party will defend the Spaniards and their dignity in Brussels against the countries that have despised it by welcoming a fugitive coup who has committed the worst crime that a public representative can commit? The Socialist Party is not going to do it, nor can the People's Party, which has already applauded the German court that refused to hand us over to Puigdemont and did so through its most qualified spokesman, Mr Rajoy. Stop talking about armchairs and dimes and tell us about what was not foreseen in the debate today and defend national sovereignty, which is what you represent, and not European sovereignty or global or global sovereignty. They defend our external borders and defend our internal security, which is compromised. They defend the Spaniards, for example those 2.7 million Spaniards who voted for VOX and those whom you also represent in front of a French politician who interfered in national politics, Mr Macron, who is his ally and who said what the policies of pacts they dictated since the Elysée were. [[Applauds]] They defend our field and defend our industry against those who strangle them by promoting competition for non-Community products. Because if they don't do that, why do they want the armchairs, which they talked about here today, why do we want Mr. Borrell in a position of power? We are very clear, because the President of the Government has told us today: to criminalize millions of Europeans who disagree with the progressive dictatorship. That is why you have come here to tell us about the hate crimes and that charge you brought from the Marrakech Summit, for which you want to pursue millions of Europeans with hate crimes just because you criticize illegal immigration. They want to end the possibility for many Spaniards to comment. They're not going to be able to do it, they're going to have to keep listening to us here, they're going to have to twist the laws a lot, they're going to have to turn them into totalitarian women if they want to gag us with hate crimes, which you might have to think about. I say this because of the fake news you were talking about, slipping in some way that favored new political alternatives. I thank you for your concern about the fake news. [[Mr. President of the Government in office, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, makes negative signs with his head]] - Yeah, don't deny it, because it does that, it does that thinking about it. I appreciate you protecting us. Look : 'No, Santiago Abascal has not said that they will fill 'the corners of independenceists' in the act of Vistalegre.' [[showing several press headlines]] This fake news has been circulating all over the social media. It wasn't our sympathizers. 'The bubble on Ortega Smith and the 'foulings with love': the intercomilado is false and refers to a commemorative cross'. 'Vox receives almost three million euros in subsidies for its seats in Andalusia'. This fake new is from the newspaper. The country. They are fake news produced not by anonymous people many times, but by the media or by political leaders: Susana Díaz accuses Abascal of being an accomplice to the abusers of women, that is, those who abuse our mothers, our daughters, our grandmothers.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u69	Mr. Abascal, you have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u70	Half a minute. A Spanish senator, Mr. Maroto, assured that VOX was proposing to remove protection from women to give to bulls. Even Mr. Rivera came to tell us in an election campaign that what VOX was proposing was that there were weapons in schools. Thank you for protecting us from the fake news, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u72	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that I have not been answered to many of the questions I have raised or to my specific demands. I have heard a lot of things, on the other hand, in speeches by various Members of Parliament, and I think I can say a few things too. It will not be for lack of will, but I will not use this turn of intervention because I believe that my silence will contribute much more than a few possible words to an institutional stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Government, before you gave an account of the times that ministers and ministers-in-Office of the Government had appeared in recent days, in responding to the accusations of the right of the House. He forgot one thing I want to point out here, and it is that this is the first session of control of a government in office with interpellations and questions in the history of our democracy; the first. [[Applauds]] The truth is that this summer I was reading carefully the appearances of Mr. Married in the media and saw how a tone has dropped, how he speaks more paused, how he tries to be more moderated, more moderate. But the bottom has to be accompanied in the way, Mr. Married. And they don't tell a truth, they still don't tell a truth. It is basically the problem that the right wing of the House and you as a political leader have. It is curious to hear from you, Mr Casado - and I would like to talk about Europe, as the President said, that for that reason we are here - to call on a government that has always been on the front line defending precisely the interests of our country and of the European Union itself. It is curious because, every time your party has reached the government, it has driven us away from Europe, I repeat, it has driven us away from Europe. With you the opinion of Spain has always been absent from the decisions of Brussels. When you were in the Spanish government, you were not in Brussels, because, as your predecessor in the People's Party said, all these are very difficult things. I think the exact words were: very difficult things. I think that's exactly what Mr. Rajoy was saying. And now that they are in opposition, they continue to live behind the backs of Europe and the interests of the Spanish in the Union. The President of the Government reminded him of what happened last April in the Permanent Chamber with a royal decree-law of measures for the case of a hard Brexit, a package of measures to protect the interests of the Spanish, Mr Casado. And you remember who voted against it? You voted against that package of measures, that royal decree-law in the case of a hard Brexit. Curious patriotism yours, the one of the three of you, the one on the right in this case of the House, who gives breaststrokes talking about Spain, once again, but forget to defend the Spaniards. I was listening to the three of you talking about Spain Suma and then I have to hear Mr Casado say that we want to go to elections. But if it is you who have been running to register a new electoral mark! It's you. [[Applauds]] It's been weeks. What are you talking about? You are the ones who have decided, both of you, to block the country's situation. I also miss the Europeanism of Mr Rivera, who claims to defend the Union while he is allied with the far right that despises Europe. Mr Rivera, when you defend one thing and your opposite, when you claim to defend Europe and you agree with the anti-European far right, things like those that are happening to you happen. And all that in the face of the stunned gaze of your voters, the snout of your European partners, the blush of many of your colleagues, when they get to see you, which is lately quite complicated, it is quite complicated to meet you. He anticipated it a week ago, Mr Rivera, the elections are won or lost, but a party cannot lose its soul, because then it will end up losing everything. You decided to abandon the liberal soul of your party and only served you to lose credibility, a good list of colleagues and - all polls indicate - a good part of the voters. I invite you to reflect on the path to which you have led your political organization, which has been leading a party for 13 years that has emerged with a vocation supposedly to occupy the liberal center, but whose more moderate members jump out of the boat one after another while their great record is dedicated to calling the migrants of another ship, this one of those who only seek a dignified life in a safe port. Mr Iglesias, you speak again of the guarantee of a progressive government, and you say that you are the guarantee of a progressive government, but there are now four times that you do not allow the formation of a progressive government in this country, four votes. [[Applauds]] They were talking about budgets and I was telling their fellow negotiators, to whom I respect and who I am sure that they have done an excellent job - just like ours - this is not a matter of alpha males coming together to make decisions, we are political organizations and as such we behave. [[Applauds]] You spoke of the General Budgets of the State and said that they did not go forward because it was an unstable government. But if you voted them too! Those General State Budgets would not have come out now either, with 165 seats that we added. You know why? Because the one who failed was, in this case, a part of those in the motion of censorship, Catalan independence, failed Republican Left above all. [[Applauds]] We didn't fail. We didn't fail the PSOE. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u75	Mrs. Lastra, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u76	You're done, Madam President. I'm only going to recommend it, because I have to conclude, one thing. We are a predictable political organization, we are serious and rigorous, because history weighs on us. [[Rumors]] I'm just going to recommend that you don't wait for the last minute blows, because you already have a history of them not working. We have the votes, we have the agreement, we have the guarantees and only you are missing, Mr. Churches. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u78	Thank you, Madam President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by expressing my calm and satisfaction to the members of the Government in office because there has been no major criticism on the part of the opposition to the management that we are doing at the European Council and also at the Brexit in this monitoring session. I would therefore also like to acknowledge the great work that ministers and ministers have done, because we have indeed found no support, because it is difficult for them to support and recognize the things that are done well, but at least the tranquility of duty done and with good note. I have already said this in my first intervention and also in the reply, ladies and gentlemen, of course Spain needs stability, Spain after five years, since the emergence in 2015 of two political forces - in this case Unidad Podemos and Ciudadanos - has experienced quite a lot of electoral processes. In fact, in this past year, in 2019, we have had four electoral processes - a general election and three elections, autonomous, municipal and European - and therefore I think it is high time that since the Congress of Deputies we gave the necessary stability to politics to address the issues that really affect and matter to citizens. That is the demand that I make before the House, that is the spirit and the spirit with which we come to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government in office, and from that sense the only thing I say is what I have already said in the reply round, which is that the absence of elections is not only up to the Socialist Party, because we obviously have 123 seats. Therefore, if the majority continues to block this parliamentary term, there will obviously be no parliamentary term and we will be automatically called to elections. Here various political groups have told their version of what has happened over the past fifteen months, and I was coming to talk about other things, but they have indeed been reduced and also with the veiled applause of the opposition, because we have not found any element of reasoned criticism of the issues that have to do with Europe. That is why you are going to allow me too to give my view of what has happened over the past 15 months, and therefore to share with all of you also how I think the current situation is. As Mr Casado has rightly said - which he has recalled - we come from a motion of censure which prospered for the first time fifteen months ago. What did you suppose? From our humble point of view, it was a motion of censure against the corruption of a People's Party that still has many issues to resolve and clarify in the courts as a result of the irregular financing of its party. It was also a motion of censure for the lack of political responsibility. I have said this on many occasions, this is not the first time you have listened to me here in the rostrum, when that motion of censure occurred I told Mr Rajoy precisely that if he resigned and assumed his political responsibilities that motion of censure would end, but what the People's Parliamentary Group did was not assume his political responsibility and resign Mr Rajoy. In short, it meant opening up, ladies and gentlemen, a new time in Spanish politics. This is at least how the Socialist Parliamentary Group lives, so I want to share with all of you how we see it. What have we done during these fifteen months? We proved that things could be done differently. We show that in the crisis of coexistence that is lived in Catalonia they undoubtedly have to speak among Catalans, which the nationalist part of Catalonia has to recognize the non-nationalist part of Catalonia, and obviously the Government of Spain will always bet for dialogue, for the defense of the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Therefore coexistence, coexistence in the face of so much friction that we have experienced in recent years and that in some way it needs from the main institutions of the State a certain dose of solvency, sobriety, and above all to understand that under the effects that can occur as a result of the judicial proceedings opened against the Catalan independence leaders there is a political problem that we have to solve. So I always transferred it to the then President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, because from the judicial point of view the Government of Spain had to do what was appropriate in view of what were flagrant violations of the law in force, and that in any case we had to open, for example, in the Congress of Deputies a committee to evaluate the territorial model, because there were issues that we had to improve or that in the Parliament of Catalonia a table of dialogue was opened between the different political forces represented there, in order to restore and improve the levels of coexistence so low that there were as a result of that independence of the State, and therefore to the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Consequently, coexistence and social justice. Mr. Iglesias says that we have been ruling with Mr. Rajoy's budgets for fifteen months, and it is true - and then I will talk about those budgets and also about what happened in that parliamentary debate that precipitated the advance of the elections - but in any case I also think it is fair to acknowledge, remember and claim that with those margins so narrow that we have had the educational cuts, we have recovered the unemployment allowance for those over fifty-two years old, we have recovered the right to social security contributions from the caregivers of the National Unit System, we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage. Therefore, within those margins that we had so narrow, we have done important things for the whole citizenry. Nor do I want to forget all that has to do with the decent employment plan, the youth employment plan or the employment and long-term unemployment plan, which are issues that we have actually done with the budgets set by the previous administration. Why were the elections anticipated, ladies and gentlemen? The elections were not anticipated because there was no understanding between the Socialist Party and the United We can; the elections were not anticipated because the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not get along with the United Parliamentary Group We can; the elections were anticipated, simply and plainly, because when this Government presented to the General Courts budgets supported by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the United We can independence and the right united to overthrow social budgets, after many years of social cuts. That's what made us have to rush the election. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we begin to know the meaning given by Mr Casado and Mr Aegean to that of Spain: let us add with whomever it is to block and bring down the Socialist Party of the Government of Spain. [[Applause.- Denials by Mr Casado Blanco]] Anyway, Mr. Married, it is quite contradictory - if I may say so, and I really say so with all due respect - that you take a lot of heart for the things that the People's Party did, and you are the first leader of the People's Party who wants to go to elections hiding the acronyms of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It does not seem that your party liked you very much, because yesterday or the day before yesterday I heard Mr Alonso say that these things have been said in the media, but they have not been discussed internally. Perhaps your secretary-general could tell him that he was a little bit more beguiled and that he thought more about the People's Party than on supposed platforms that in the end all they do is hide the acronyms of the People's Party.Look at one thing, Mr. Married, I was also a young leader of the Socialist Party a long time ago and in the Socialist Party that would not have allowed it, I can guarantee it. [[Mr. García Aegean: I'll listen to you]] [[Applauds]] We are very proud of our acronyms, we are very proud of our acronyms, Mr. Married. In any case, the first conclusion is that cooperation worked, Mr. Iglesias, during these fifteen months, it worked, and if we had to look at elections, it was not precisely because we couldn't understand or cooperate, because we carried out many things with some of the margins that you have claimed, or recalled better, but because Catalan independence joined the right-wing forces to bring down the general budgets of the State. That's right, there's history, and that's not what I'm saying, it's a subjective element, here's a few votes that clearly demonstrate - it's in the Journal of Sessions - that there was a majority that had budgets that I still defend, that could by the way be perfectly the elements of a substantive agreement for this legislature between the Podemos and the Socialist Party. I understand that the bench on the right does not want that agreement or those budgets, but what I cannot understand, Mr. Iglesias, is why you do not claim those fifteen months of cooperation. If there's been a lot of things we've done together and done them right! You claim for yourself the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage; well, as I leave it to you, we have approved it between the two, therefore as important were your seats as ours to be able to carry out elements of social policy, that interprofessional minimum wage that has nothing to do with the vote in the Congress of Deputies. But what surprises me, Your Honor, is that you to justify entry into the United Nations Government We can do whatever you do is not claim and make your own a few months of cooperation and cooperation that I believe have been well valued by the general public. We went to elections last April 28th, ladies and gentlemen, and what right did you do? And when I say the right I mean Casado and Mr. Rivera and then of course Mr. Abascal. For this was a sort of plebiscite, a referendum: Mr Sánchez must be cast out and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party must be cast out. This was the approach and message that the People's Party, the Citizens' Party and the far right moved: the Socialist Party must be thrown out, Mr Sánchez, the evil Mr Sánchez de la Moncloa must be thrown out. Okay. What did the Spaniards say? For the Spaniards said - seven and a half million Spaniards - that the Socialist Party was the most voted force. What did they say about the People's Party, Mr. Married? Well, they said from Mr Casado and the People's Party that a political force that had represented until very recently, before Mr Casado led the People's Party, when they said they were around 30%, today they have 16% and they have 66 seats. Mr. Rivera failed in his attempt to surprise the People's Party. And between United Podemos and the Socialist Party, if before the elections there was a difference of just over 13 seats today there is a difference of 81 seats. I therefore believe that from the electoral point of view, from what the Spaniards said on 28 April, it is more than obvious than what they said quite forcefully, not with an absolute majority, but quite forcefully in a system as multi-party as that which we have in our country, is that they wanted the Socialist Party to govern. Well, elections in May. What did the Spaniards say last May? They once again endorsed the Socialist Party as the country's first political force: in the European elections, in the municipal elections and in the autonomous elections. And what did we see that was? What we have seen has been that the socialist party, where it has been able to govern with other progressive forces, has agreed with coalition governments and has put those coalition governments on the move. Mr Iglesias says: why in La Rioja yes, in Valencia too and in Spain no? Mr churches, here you forget a question, which I defended and proposed in July a coalition government and you rejected it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You said that you did not want a government with the Ministry of Health; that you did not want a government with the Ministry of Equality, which seemed insufficient to you, that you came to change things and that things were changing from the Treasury, from Labour and Social Security and from the Ecological Transition, and that everything else was little less than a shambles. Yes, yes, Mr. Churches, yes, yes. Yeah, he said that. You have said that, Mr. Churches, yes, man, if I believe that we must also make things clear. But look at one thing, Mr. Iglesias, with human rights, cooperation and citizen participation being important, if you despised me from the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs, what would you have done if I had proposed to you what the President of La Rioja proposed to the only Member of Parliament who has the United We can in the Parliament of La Rioja, which is a council of citizenship, human rights and cooperation? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr. Churches, what are we talking about? We are talking, Mr. Iglesias, that you proposed a coalition government on 28 April; on 11 September you proposed a coalition government. And in the meantime I proposed a coalition government that you rejected, says you want a coalition government because it's the only way there's a progressive government. And I tell you that in Europe there are progressive coalition governments and progressive governments without coalition, as is the case in Denmark or as is the case in Portugal. Therefore, if the proposal I made to you last July as a coalition government has failed by any chance, let us explore the proposal made to you by the Socialist Party for an intermediate solution where you can cooperate perfectly with the Socialist Party, and you can count also on many of the factors of governability. A different question is that you also deny it, a different question is that you also reject the fact that there is a government with a programme that we have built with the participation of civil society, which has raised a triple guarantee, not only by creating an office in the Ministry of Finance, not only by creating a monitoring committee for that parliamentary agreement, not only for a monitoring committee on the part of the social sectors, but also by the incorporation of relevant people from the United Nations We can institutions that do not depend on the Council of Ministers. Do you reject him, too? Well, Mr Iglesias, the question that must therefore be asked is whether you are going to return - as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has rightly said - to preventing a Socialist Party government from running the country for the next four years, and therefore whether you are going to take the country back to elections on 10 November. This is the question you will have to answer. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, honestly - Mrs Lastra has already told Mr Iglesias and I also endorse it - we are an organization that has appointed in its federal executive committee a negotiating committee in which is the Vice-President of the Government, is the Minister of Finance of the Government of Spain in office and is the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Deputy Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. The Congress of Deputies is a very important body where laws are passed, where the Government is controlled, but where the forum should not be used to propose agreements. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Mr. Iglesias, if you have any question to raise of negotiation I ask you to call you or to convene the negotiating table and you explain whether you have any other question - beyond the coalition government - to put to the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] We will be waiting for you, but I also tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias, what I told you in the reply: there is not only one way to understand one another between the Socialist Party and the United We can, we have had fifteen months in which we have understood each other and very well for the benefit of the citizenry. Today we have 165 seats, no 151, which I ask you, Mr Iglesias, is that you do not give a second chance to the right and allow a government of the Socialist Party to exist. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of Parliament and members of the Government in office, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u80	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in office, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President-in-Office of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u81	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, how do you assess the situation in the country?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u82	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u83	Well, Mr. Married, delicately. The question to be asked is the question that I raised earlier in my appearance. It is the main group in the House, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but also the 350 Members of the House as a whole, that is, the responsibility for government and to move the legislature. So the question that should be asked to you, Mr Casado, is: what are you and your 65 Members of Parliament doing to ensure the stability and governability of our country? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. I give the floor to Mr Casado Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u85	Gladly. I want to explain to you for several parliamentary sessions why we cannot support your candidacy and your plan of government, despite having shown respect for your party and your person far superior to what you demonstrate to my person and my parliamentary group, and offer eleven state pacts and budget support so that taxes do not go up, international support - of which you have not made use - for security policies and social emergency support. It seems to you that your mouth is filled, but you reject the data of the EPA, the data of INEM or even the data of Caritas - who said the other day that there are already 22% of young people at risk of exclusion - or even those of the CIS itself when he tells you that 45% of Spaniards do not arrive at the end of the month. We're doing what we're doing is seeing that you have to earn the salary. Instead of handing out restraint cards and telling us what we have to do, make use of the election result, rather modest, it is. By the way, I remind you that those three right-wings and some more regionalist party represent more votes than the Socialist Party and Podemos did in April. So don't tempt yourself to the luck, because in the end if we make platforms without losing the logo, as you did in the Senate with the Entesa del Progrés during three legislatures, with Esquerra Republicana and with Initiative per Catalunya, perhaps it is so that the fragmentation that you from the institutions have tried to promote for the center and right parties doesn't benefit you and your disgovernment. But I have to tell you something too, and it is that you did hide the acronyms, even the ballot boxes behind the curtains when you had internal electoral processes, and your party did suffer, however federal it may be, the change of course when you left for the nationalist theses with the health cord more than a decade ago. The PES left UPyD, and the PSC left Citizens. [[Rumors.-Protests by Mr. Rivera Díaz]] Yes, sir. Therefore, if you continue to ridicule proposals to unify a constitutionalist vote, perhaps you should remember that you have bad company. I would never add either Bildu, Esquerra or Junts per Cat to any government, and I believe that many Socialist Party voters are already blaming you. [[rumors]] That is why, dear President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, you simply resolve the situation of instability and the blockade that has been constancy for almost four years, and stop putting the mirror towards this bench. Look in the mirror and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr President-in-Office, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, it will be for the analysts of parliamentarianism that you have actually assimilated the Members of Parliament from the far right to the People's Party when there are people within your party who are telling you, with quite common sense, that what you have to do is focus and forget about the far right; what you do not do. In any case, Mr Casado, I have to tell you that of course we want a government with full powers, that we want it to run the legislature, that we do not want elections. As I said before, if we do not finally reach an agreement with the United Nations, we can, because they do indeed want only coalition and only coalition, we will obviously have to look at the whole parliamentary arc and also look at the People's Parliamentary Group because you did the same thing with the Socialist Parliamentary Group not long ago, and take on the responsibilities that you previously claimed. Look, Mr. Married, when you look at the things that you said four years ago, the truth is it draws attention. Mrs Lastra told him recently in an intervention that you said in a television interview: What would we do if the Socialist Party took 52 seats in the People's Party and two and a half million votes of difference; we would have to abstain - you said - because if we did not have daily concentrations on Genoa Street, in the People's Party headquarters, asking for abstention. All I ask of you, Mr. Married, is that you be consistent and consistent with your words. If you do not want elections, you have the perfect capacity to abstain and allow a government to exist in Spain and we do not go to elections. [[Rumors]] That's all I'm asking, Mr. Married. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. - QUESTION OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON FUNCTIONS: DOES THE PRESENT POLITICAL SITUATION RESPONSES THE NEEDS OF THE SPANISH SOCIETY? [[File number 180/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u89	He asked the current President of the Government of Don Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u90	Mr. Sánchez, today is the diad of Catalonia. Unfortunately more than half of Catalans can't celebrate our day, and we can't do it because Torra and the separatists have seized everyone's day. I would like to celebrate that day and today I think of many Catalans who are ashamed and sad about what they are seeing. But besides that, Mr Sánchez, Mr Torra, autonomous president of Catalonia - according to the Constitution, the highest ordinary leader of the State - said this Thursday again that he calls civil disobedience, disobedience, which is a crime. Mr Torra said this past week that court sentences must be disregarded if they are convicts, thus blackmailing judges and no Spanish justice. Mr Sánchez, I have asked you before and you have spoken for more than half an hour and, incidentally, you have not answered: beyond your disagreements with me and mine with you, beyond our differences in the electoral programme, beyond what separates us from the opposition of the Government, do you not think it is time, just before there is a court ruling, to sit, talk and be together, whatever happens, to apply Article 155 in Catalonia? Do you want this afternoon, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or when you want us to meet you and me and start talking about the 155 app, yes or no? [[Protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u91	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u92	Madam President, the question Mr Rivera asked me was: Do you consider that the current political situation responds to the needs of Spanish society? I have been taken off with another question that, as I told you earlier in the appearance, 155, ETA and Venezuela, Mr Rivera, are the subjects of the Spanish liberal we have. By the way, I just learned that we are ex-companies, according to Mr Casado, because Citizens seem to be or was an appendage of the Catalan Socialist Party, which, fortunately, is a lie. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] ; just that, for the record. I am therefore going to be scrupulous, Mr Rivera, with what the Rules of Procedure say and I am going to answer your question. Of course, I believe that the current situation does not meet the needs of Spanish society, for the simple reason, Mr Rivera, that there is no government. What I am therefore asking you is what you are going to do, Mr Rivera, to ensure that there is a government and that the legislature moves forward. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u94	Mr Sánchez, I know you are not used to control sessions because six months ago you are not coming, but it is not the control of the Socialist Party to Citizens, it is the control of opposition parties to the government. I have asked you something that you have not answered in your half-hour reply or in your reply now. I find it amazing that the president of the nation, even if he is in office, has nothing to say about the application of the Constitution in a territory where the autonomous president calls for disobedience. Doesn't it seem to you serious that an autonomous president calls civil disobedience? Do we have to see again how they commit crimes or avoid crimes? Do we apply the Constitution before they commit crimes or after they commit them? Are we going with the Penal Code and the judges or with politics and the Constitution? [[Rumors]] No, Mr Sánchez, I ask you again: Do you accept that tomorrow, this afternoon or when you and your agenda can, we meet, beyond our differences, to discuss what matters, what competences should we think about how to apply 155? [[Rumors]] This is not a joke, it is not a schmuck, we are playing the unity of our country, we are playing freedoms and rights in Catalonia, we are playing the daily life of 7.5 million Spaniards. For me it is not a Catalonian joke, it is a matter of state, and it is so much so that, disagreeing with you and being in opposition, I hold your hand and ask you, Mr Sánchez, here and now, tomorrow or when necessary, a meeting to apply the Constitution in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u95	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u96	Thank you, Madam President. You forget that the order of the factors, Mr Rivera, alters the product: first, we will need a House, and then a government that ceases to function and has full capabilities, Mr Rivera. [[Rumors]] We are not overacting like you, no, we act when we see that the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia are violated and violated. We did that when we were in the opposition, and we're not going to give each other breaststrokes like you do, giving lessons in patriotism to the rest of the House, Mr. Rivera. [[Rumors]] You are an absent politician, whom no one understands anymore, neither within nor outside your party. [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: Yes or no]] Of course not. You come here saying - and I also use that term that appeared in an interview recently - that you want to clean up the trash of the People's Party, but you support your governments. He's called liberal and centrist, and he deals with the far right. [[Rumors]] The other day I heard you say, Mr Rivera, that you do not want to block the Government of Spain. Yes, yes, Mr. Rivera. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Rivera, there's such a difference between what you say and what you do that, you know what you are, a hypocrite. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMONLY POWDER-GALICIA IN COMMON, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON FUNCTIONS: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE PRESIDENT OF HIS WORK DURING THE MONTHS HE TAKES ON FUNCTIONS? [[File number 180/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u98	He asked the president of the government in office of the deputy Fr. Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, what balance do you make of your management as President-in-Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u100	Thank you, Mr. Churches. Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, the same balance sheet I've made over the past 15 months. We are a government that before the elections on 28 April defended social justice, coexistence, cleanliness and, therefore, democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption, and that is what we have also been defending during these long months of government in office. What happened after 28 April is that you said that you want to join the Government of Spain but not to join forces with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but because you want to control us because you say that you do not trust. That's what you'll have to explain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u103	Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that you make the same assessment of your ordinary government as of your current government. In any case, Mr Sánchez, we are in September; given that the elections were in April, it is striking that you have achieved nothing but support in all these months to be President of the Government. I know that you have said here that it is not your fault, that it is basically the fault of others, of the People's Party and of citizens for not abstaining, or of us for not supporting it. I respect that you think so, but maybe you should think about it. Let me remind you of what we have done to make it easier for this country to have a progressive Government presided over by you. You told us, first of all, that you were vetoing us from state ministries, that there could be no one from Podemos in Defense, inside or outside, and we accepted that veto. Secondly, they said that our position with regard to Catalonia was a hindrance, and we said that we took his leadership and that we were going to be loyal on this issue. You told us, by the vice president's mouth, that our economic proposals were not in the CEO's interest, and we said that we were content with turning the social articles of the Constitution into reality. Then we were told that the only stumbling block for a coalition government was my presence, and I withdrew. They proposed to us a vice-presidency, to convert two general secretariats into ministries and a 5% management of the budget when we would represent 33% of the coalition, and we told them that if they added the competences in active employment policies - to which you did not attach as much importance, as your parliamentary spokesman said - we would reach an agreement with you. Today I have the feeling, Mr Sánchez, that when you proposed that coalition government you did not mean it, because when someone proposes something seriously the proposal does not last three days, because a coalition government is not negotiated in three days. [[rumors]] Do you think it's serious to negotiate a coalition government in three days? The logical thing is that that proposal that you made, once I accepted the veto, would have been maintained. What I think now is that you let me go and you were pretending to be proposing a coalition government that was not really believed. [[Applauds]] You know what, Mr. Sanchez? There is something much more important than the ideology or coherence of a president and that is his word. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u104	Thank you, Mr. Churches. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, at last... [[Laughter]] We have since 28 April made five proposals to the Confederal Group of the United Nations. We can, Mr. Churches: we have offered a government alone of the Socialist Party with its external support; we have offered the incorporation of independents of recognized prestige of the United Nations. We can as members of the Council of Ministers, which you despised because they said they were technocrats; we have also offered a government of cooperation with the incorporation of people of the United Nations. We can to different institutions of the State and not to the Council of Ministers, we have also despised it; I proposed, finally, a coalition government, and you said that one of the main red lines was that there was a vice-presidency of the Government of the United Nations. We can, that we accept, for Mrs. Irene Montero; and from there on, we began to offer different ministries, Mr. Churches. It is not true that we would not offer him any Ministry of State, we offered him the Ministry of Cooperation and Migration. Cooperation, Mr. Churches, is something that has to do with the state, but, well. [[Laughter]] Perhaps for the right, indeed, the policy of cooperation is not State policy, but for a socialist government or a progressive government, of course it is. You have rejected all that, Mr. Churches. What the Socialist Party has done in August and September has been to talk to civil society, to put forward a progressive programme of three hundred and seventy measures and to address the three main concerns that you had: one, the contents of the Government's action; two, the guarantees, and three, the participation of the United We can in the governance of the country. We have deeply respected the United We can in each and every approach, Mr. Churches. What I ask you to think about is that you do not take the country back to elections, that you do not do what you did in 2016, and that you did in July too, facilitating precisely the right-wing blockade and preventing a government of the Socialist Party. [[Mr. Turrion Churches makes negative gestures]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN JAVIER ORTEGA SMITH-MOLINA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE IN FUNCTIONS: Will the Government grant the individual to the Catholic Golpists who have been judged before the Supreme Court if they are finally condemned and demand it? [[File number 180/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u107	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Francisco Javier Ortega Smith-Molina of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Justice, I will ask you directly and clearly, and I hope, for your part, that the same answer will be given: Will the Government grant pardon to the coup-makers of Catalonia who have been tried before the Supreme Court if they are finally convicted and requested? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Before answering your question, you're going to let me remind you of two figures: 40 women killed by sexist violence in what goes on in the year, 1015 women killed since there are statistics. [[Applauds]] That's what you called a big lie. [[Rumors]] And that, let me tell you, Mr Ortega, is a great infamy for the victims and relatives of the victims of that macho violence. [[Applauds]] Now I'm going to tell you that the pardon you're talking about is regulated in a law, the 1870 law. A number of prerequisites are required for the granting of pardons, but above all, note that there is a judgment and that the judgment is final and that judgment is currently being deliberated. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u111	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u112	Madam Minister, although we are pleased that after two years we have finally heard the People's Party and Citizens worry about issues such as the escape of the coup player Puigdemont, the violation of the Euroorder, the amparo to the investigating magistrate or possible pardons, what really interests this VOX parliamentary group and the vast majority of Spaniards is whether the Government is going to violate the constitutional principles of equality of the Spaniards before the law of article 14, the obligation to comply with the judgments and judicial decisions of article 118 and, ultimately, whether the Government is going to respect the national sovereignty on which judicial sovereignty depends, the rule of law, the independence of the courts and, in particular, the independence of the judiciary. And, Minister, violence has no gender, violence is violence and we will fight it whenever it happens. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u114	Mr Ortega, I am not going to debate with you on this issue, which is clear and is assumed, thanks to the effort, to a lot of work and many rules and laws and, above all, to this Parliament. So we're not going to get into gender-based violence, into murderous sexist violence. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Let's go to the other side. I do not know whether it is out of ignorance, ignorance or because it is going to bring him to this debate. Just a few months ago he spoke of the pardon as an expired and late-night institution, and the following month he asked for it for a person who had not yet been convicted. At this time the only formation that is questioning judicial independence is you, VOX, asking this question that comes to disturb something that is essential, that is the deliberation of a judgment, once you have concluded an oral trial full of guarantees. This Government has since the first minute preserved this independence of the judiciary, preserved the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and provided all the necessary means to carry out an extraordinary trial that has taken place in the Supreme Court. [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina makes negative gestures]] In addition, we are contributing with great responsibility - because it cannot be otherwise - to passing a painful page in order to get stronger links of coexistence in Catalonia because there is a problem in Catalonia. And we've done it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF OPERATIONS: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO IMPLEMENT FOR YOU TO STOP BEING IN YOUR SERVICE? [[File number 180/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u116	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos of Miguel of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u117	What steps will the Government take to ensure that Spanish Radio-television ceases to be at its service?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montesinos, I do not know exactly what particular issue you are referring to on this issue. He is probably confused with Mr. Rajoy's Spanish Radio Television management stage. I will simply tell you that all the procedures and procedures that are being carried out - our public television has not received in these fourteen months nor a single complaint by censure - are due to the professionalism of the people who work in this body, who deserve all respect. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u121	Minister, the manipulation of Spanish Radio Television by the Socialist Government is a constant throughout its entire mandate. When they arrived at the government they named Mrs. Rosa María Mateo to the finger, because it was you who appointed the sole administrator of Spanish Radiotelevision, although as administrator she has rather little because she has now decided that she also sells to Torrespaña. The provisional is a mockery at this point in 2019, but the only thing we do share with you. Of course it's unique!; unique in the purge of more than 100 professionals, which has carried out from the most absolute sectarianism. Controversies, all of them. It has been unique in the polemics generated, from its heritage society to the polemics it has generated lately. Here we have the Spanish Radiotelevision decorations, bidding for the next elections to the dictatorship of the socialist government. [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister. Six hundred contracts have already been awarded amounting to EUR 150 million without any form of control, either from the board of directors or from parliamentary control. Besides that - you know it well - they have had it at service and have offended Spanish Radio Television. It has offended the victims of terrorism because you have claimed to launder a confessed terrorist, as Otegi has been. They have offended the victims of terrorism on the eve of the International Day of Victims of Terrorism. That's what you've consented to and encouraged. [[Applauds]] In addition, manipulation causes the words of the President of the People's Party to be distorted. In an act in Ávila, the reporter you sent instead of letting the president of the People's Party be heard, said we would be willing to grant Pedro Sánchez the investiture in exchange for 155. False, rigorously false, and that has been promoted by you. Or the EREs of Andalusia, that here you know nothing of them since you govern, absolutely nothing. Or Venezuela, that since they've changed... [[Rumors]] Yes, since you have changed the correspondent in Venezuela we no longer hear about Venezuela; it is a taboo subject for Spanish Broadcasting, and you know it well because you are those of the political slogans. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I'm going to give you a data, you who like the data so much. Until the appointment of the new sole administrator, Spanish Television was the first in news and is now the third in... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u123	What you have made clear in this House, Mrs Montesinos, is that you do not like Spanish public television. [[Rumors]] That's all I've ever been able to infer from all... [[Rumors]] I have respected you, ladies and gentlemen, when you spoke. That is all I have been able to infer from all those issues that you have raised, but you have forgotten some data. The current single administrator was elected by an absolute majority of this House. She was not elected by finger, but by 180 deputies. [[Applauds]] I give you another piece of information, Your Honor. Mrs Mateo's predecessor was also elected by an absolute majority, in this case the People's Party. In solitary the People's Party elected the president of the Spanish Radio Television. And I tell you more things. The Spanish Radio-television report referring to the year 2017, when governing Mrs. Mateo's predecessor, gathered the chill of 230 cases of manipulation and information censorship. Do you know how many have been collected in Mrs. Mateo's current period? None, Mrs. Montesinos, none. [[Applauds]] Another piece of information. When you were ruling Spanish Radio Television, in the different appearances that took place here, the gentleman responsible for television gave no explanation either with regard to the personnel policy or with regard to the appointment policy. Every time this House has called Mrs Mateo, it has appeared and has moved all the issues on which your ladies and gentlemen were interested. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that you are constantly committed to altering reality. It seems that reality is what the People's Party wants to paint. Let him look at it, because what it's all about is not painting reality. Therefore, they do not require some to accompany their manipulation... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u124	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FIVE ROMERO MARKS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ECONOMICS AND ENTERPRISES ON FUNCTIONS: WHAT MEASURES DID THE MINISTER HAVE THOUGHT TO TAKE TO BALANCE ON A DISPOSED PUBLIC GAST, ON ALL OF WHICH THE MEASURES SUGGESTED IN THE PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAMME PRESENT THIS WEEK WILL INCREASE THE SAME IN MORE THAN 30 000 MILLION EUROS? [[File number 180/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u125	Question by Mr Marcos de Quinto Romero from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Montero, citizens are concerned about the clear slowdown in the economy, but above all they are concerned about how, while other countries in our environment are preparing for a possible recession, you surprise us last week with an irresponsible programme that will increase the public deficit by more than 30 billion. That is why I ask you: what measures do you intend to take to balance this public expenditure?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u127	Thank you, Mr. De Quinto. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. The calculation you make of the supposed 30 billion will have to explain how you do it and where it comes from. He seems to have forgotten the income chapter or he hasn't said it, he probably hasn't contemplated it. Mr De Quinto, I hear you and your language and style are very similar to those of the People's Party. You are indistinguishable from the criticisms made to the Government, and that is an important problem that citizens have at the moment. Furthermore, Mr De Quinto, the risks and challenges are so serious that the kind of questions you ask also demonstrates your party's short-term vision. I'm just going to give you data that's public, that's audited, and that's objective. The public deficit we have just seen shows a 20.9% drop until July. A year ago Spain had a primary deficit of 21 billion and today it has a primary surplus of 1051 million. Is this what you call open-ended public spending? This government has reduced the deficit, just as it has tried to reverse those cuts in the People's Party that you supported. You talk about an increase that we don't know about what figures, what data and what studies are being held. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, talking about public expenditure which is out of the question when this country is five points away from the European average speaks for itself of the idea you have regarding public expenditure in all administrations. Its goal is to reduce public spending, and that is why they want to lower taxes and remove security mattresses from citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mr. De Quinto Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u130	Mrs Montero, the programme to which I referred, that of the three hundred and seventy points, is pure economic populism. It follows the well-known socialist recipe that you dominate by applying it in Andalusia and that it is more spent to generate clientelism, more taxes to the usual and how not! new chiringuitos; in this case, they dress them up as observatories, institutes and even a high commissioner in which they supposedly place their own. I understand that it must be very difficult for Mrs Calviño to try to make a serious and responsible speech in Europe and then come back here to this Chamber with you and be surprised by the statements you make with that peculiar way of understanding the economy. The one they have when the Vice-President of the Government says that public money is nobody's; when they understand that necessarily technical and neutral bodies, such as the CNMV or CIS, can be used as a currency of exchange in this new proposal they are making, or when you yourself, instead of acting with the rigour and orthodoxy expected of a finance minister, says that 1.2 billion are few and you take them away or put them anywhere in a budget. Of course he says it with more salter than I do. [[Laughter]] Mrs Montero, at the end of the day you know perfectly well that an increase in public spending at the moment does not help Spain. What can help, of course, is for the President of the Government to get the support of nationalists and populists so that he can enjoy more time of the Falcon, Doñana and Moncloa. But he doesn't do it with his money, he does it with all the Spaniards and playing with our future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u131	Thank you, Mr. De Quinto. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u132	This is Mr De Quinto's contribution to this House. That kind of tone and that kind of argument are the ones you innovate within Citizens. Probably, for that job, Mr. De Quinto, you had to think about it better. You are talking about economic orthodoxy, you are talking about coordination with regard to economic policies, you say. Where is Mr. Roldán?, where is Mr. De la Torre?, what about what you propose Mr. Garicano, Mr. De Quinto? Obviously, you can't say anything, because you directly throw them out of the party. [[Applauds]] That is the difference between what exists in Citizens and what exists in the rest of political formations. You see...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u133	Thank you, Minister, time is up. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMONLY POWDER-GALICIA IN COMMON, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF OPERATIONS: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT TO RESOLVE THE CRISIS OF THE MODEL OF FINANCING THAT IS AMENDING WITH A NEW WIND OF RECORDS OUR STATE OF WELFARE? [[File number 180/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u134	Question by Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u135	What will the Government do to resolve the current crisis of the funding model?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Vidal. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u137	Mrs Vidal, I believe that since the motion of censure has triumphed, to put it mildly, this Government has tried to make all the improvements that could be made to the scope of autonomous financing a reality. I would remind you that the budget that we jointly agreed on had an increase of more than 6% in resources reaching the Autonomous Communities. I remind you that there was more than 14% of investment that was primarily directed at the territories, and that otherwise and otherwise the autonomous statutes for Catalonia were respected, probably for the first time in our history. We have resumed discussions on the model of autonomous financing, which has been pending renewal for many years, in order to make possible a consensus within this House. I believe, Your Honor, sincerely, that we have worked, because we firmly believe in the state of autonomy and the vertebration enshrined in the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u138	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u139	Today, solving the crisis of the financing model is not only urgent because of a democratic or recognition issue, it is, among other things, because it is threatening today's pocket and, in this case, also the public services of all citizens with a new wave of cuts, which is, moreover, absolutely avoidable. Millions and millions of euros owe the state to the autonomous communities, and they are just the tip of the iceberg of a financing model that we believe is expired. Moreover, not only do we understand this, but the Socialist Party has committed itself to this on several occasions - you yourself did it in campaign and did it in August recognizing this obsolescence -. But we are dragging it and it is not resolved and the situation is serious right now. No one wants elections right now, but if we went towards them the truth is that that would translate into more government time in office and, therefore, much more asphyxiation towards the autonomous communities. I am well aware that this asphyxiation can be solved in many ways. An example is Monica Oltra, protecting public services, or, on the contrary, the Generalitat of Catalonia announcing more cuts, which rain on more cuts. I'm not gonna play cheap populism. As some say, this is not just a question of lefts or rights, because we know that the Government in office does not have the competence and therefore there is no capacity in this case to act. But the citizens continue to suffer and, therefore, I want to reach out to them to resolve an issue which we believe is fundamental and which can lead a great many people to be in an absolutely undesirable and, moreover, absolutely unnecessary situation. Because this doesn't go to Catalans, it doesn't go to Valencians, it doesn't go to bats, it goes to citizens, and therefore it affects us all. I very sincerely believe that with the will to solve it, we could do it in a fairly quick way, with quite speed. We could, for example, approve, in this case, a credit through the FLA that is of zero interest to the Autonomous Communities or even study the reformulation or reform of the Government Act, provided that the Government in office does have the capacity to transfer what is owed to the Autonomous Communities. Without a doubt, we should stop postponing the reform of the autonomous funding model, the tax reform, of course, and stop doing austere in our home. We therefore understand that it is a matter of sitting down, of will. Let's fix this, because, after all, citizens don't have to pay out of their pockets public services for political instability... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Vidal. Madam Minister of Finance in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u141	I understand, Mrs Vidal, that you were referring to the deliveries on account. It's just that you were talking to me about the model of autonomous financing, about renewal. Another separate debate concerns the issue of cash transfers and the impossibility with a Government in office, as we know from the legal report, of being able to update these cash transfers. But to put it to the right extent, that difference in the deliveries on account means fifteen days of treasury of the autonomous communities, Mrs Vidal. That is to say, there is no argument for cutting public services on the basis of the deliveries on account, because that money is in the budget of the autonomous communities and they can spend it. The problem is not expenditure, the problem is that the average payment period can be raised, and some autonomous community - in particular two, Valencia and Murcia, which are further away from meeting the deficit target and where the financing system has a worse financial treatment - may have advanced this problem by approximately the end of October or early November. That is why yesterday in the Senate, where we discussed this extensively, I told the members of the People's Party that if they wanted to apply cuts, they would not be shielded in the update of the deliveries on account. Mrs Vidal, the aim of this government is to find a solution; you know that because I have said it, we are looking for it, but there is one very simple. The simplest solution to the update and to avoid the prejudice of deliveries on account is for you to support Mr Sánchez's investiture and for the rest of the groups in the House to abstain. If there is Government, there is automatic updating of the deliveries on account. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u142	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN FUNCTIONS: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONSIDER THAT THERE IS A CITY SECURITY CRISIS IN THE CITY OF BARCELONA? [[File number 180/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u143	Questions to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am not going to ask you what pocket you have in your wallet today, but, if you have it in your right hand, I recommend that you pass it to the left. I will ask you, Minister, if you believe that there is a security crisis, as the lieutenant mayor of Barcelona, a member of the PSC, has said.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I expected a little more seriousness and less frivolity in someone who must know something about security and follow the advice of the State Security Forces and Bodies; I always follow them. But I will tell you that Spain is one of the safest countries in the world. We have efficient State Security Forces and Bodies. And right now I want to thank the police, the Civil Guard and the Mossos for Barcelona and Catalonia, and also the Urban Guard. And I would ask you to reflect, because in those seven years of policies of the People's Party in Catalonia reduced 798 troops and in Barcelona 498. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Vazquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you know why they have been reduced? Partly because of the economic crisis we inherited from the Socialist Party. But we have been the first party that has brought an initiative to Congress to remedy insecurity in Barcelona. And the frivolous answers we have received from you. Mrs. Colau said it was a right-wing invention. The retirabanderas - which is not here now present - said it was an invention of Pablo Casado. And you, Minister, disarrayed yourself saying that it was a lack of concentration of the citizens and that the pocketbook should be changed when they went through the streets of Barcelona. And, in a row, he said that the deputies we were presenting that non-law proposal were ignorant. Minister, there was some controversy over our GNP and we immediately corrected it. Will you correct your words? Do you consider it ignorant to ask for help for the citizens of Barcelona, who suffer 20 crimes every hour, 365 thefts a day, who have seen their crime rate increase by 36%? It's your data, Minister. Do you regard these ignorant deputies simply as asking for the cooperation of the Civil Guard and the Police, who sent them the following week and who already carry out three joint operations? You call us ignorant, Minister? Did you also consider ignorance to call for reform of multirecidence? Then he calls us ignorant here the two deputies, but also the Association of Prosecutors, the Association of Entrepreneurs of Catalonia and, even, their police unions, who are also asking for it. You call us ignorant for asking for a local pact? Minister, you have abandoned the Civil Guard in Ceuta and Navarra, you have abandoned prison officials who are being assaulted. You are a hooligan of insecurity and you will pass to the annals of the Congress of Deputies for having been a very prestigious judge or a minister of contempt if you do nothing, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you've accomplished... [[The applause continues]] Thanks for the applause. [[Laughter]] You've done some evaluations about me that I don't feel identified with. With regard to Catalonia, we continue to work and coordinate. We have already increased the number of police and civilian guards by more than 14% there. We do this joint work against drug trafficking, against theft, obviously controlling illegal stays, cooperating and collaborating with the Urban Guard. Referring only to Catalonia, at the time of the municipal elections I was there with the PSC, because there was a concern in the program of the PSC - I think in the PP no - and now you see how the Socialist Party of Catalonia is acting and working in the city hall. We have already recovered 14%, there are already more civilian guards and national police than there were before you came to the government in 2012. He talks to me about everything, too. I'll talk to you about the Gibraltar Field. We have also increased the number of troops. What's going on in the Gibraltar Field today? How was it when you were? He told me about Ceuta and Melilla, and I told him the same thing about immigration, because they've even withdrawn the question. The President of the People's Party himself has said - it's the only truth I've heard you say - that we're providing more police and civilian guards; that's what he said today. Your Honor, we really need to talk about security here, and I'm asking you for something very important. Security is a matter of state; take it seriously, because Spain is one of the safest countries... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u151	Thank you, Minister. - of Mr Joan Mesquida Ferrando, of the CID parliamentary group, which formulates the Minister of the Interior in functions: what measures do you intend to adopt the Minister of the Interior to end the current CID insecurities in Barcelona? [[File number 180/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u152	Question by Mr Joan Mesquida Ferrando, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Marlaska, the city of Barcelona has become the most insecure city in Spain under a self-named government of progress. As we have seen in the past year, violent robberies have grown by 30%, violent deaths by 50%, in only one and a half months, ten, the same number as in the past year. Barcelona has become an importing city of criminal talent, putting at risk and threatening not only people, but also economic activity, despite the effectiveness of the State Security Forces and Bodies. And in Spain as a whole insecurity has also increased markedly. What measures do you intend to take in the face of this serious epidemic of insecurity? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u154	Thank you, Mr. Mesquida. Minister of the Interior in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I see that the coalition works: the same question, the same answer. We're working. As far as all these issues are concerned, you seem to have forgotten very soon that you were the sole command of the Civil Guard and the Police, regarding knowledge of the competences in Catalonia in the field of public security, in the field of public security. You were responsible for the reduction of more than 12,000 police and civilian guards in seven years. [[Rumors]] As the President of the Government has said, in one year we have already called for a public offer of 5000. In Barcelona, as I say again, we continue to work; we continue, because we have not stopped working on security. We have met the Security Board, the Coordinating Committee and the Joint Committee. Of course, we do coordination and cooperation with the mossos and with the urban guard. I refer to all operations, which are known. I insist, it seems that you, as the sole command that was of the National Police and the Civil Guard, have very soon forgotten what you could learn at that time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u156	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mesquida Ferrando.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u157	Thank you very much. You are the Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain, of all Spain, and the Spanish deserve a government that protects them, and the citizens of Barcelona are as Spanish as you and I are. It is your responsibility to coordinate, to meet with the Catalan Security Board, and it has not met with them for more than a year. [[Applauds]] It is also your responsibility to make more effective, as called for by the police unions; it is your responsibility to make and propose legislative reforms, such as those proposed by Citizens, to prevent recidivism from being a chollo in our country. Would you understand that the Minister of Health, in the face of a serious epidemic, said that she disagrees because she has no competence? Minister, you said, coinciding with your partner Colau, that we should not exaggerate. Obviously, the social alarm is not generated by the media, nor by the neighbors who tape attacks and robberies with their mobile phones; it is not generated by political parties, such as Citizens, who meet with affected groups and propose solutions, nor by the US embassy, with alerts, the Chinese consulate or the association of prosecutors, who are concerned about the situation. The alarm is caused by the rise of criminals, but it can also be caused by the inaction of a political leader, who, like you, in view of the gravity of the situation, looks elsewhere. We already know that Torra and Colau don't like more cops on the streets. We don't like there being more... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mesquida. Minister-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Mesquida, I think I've made myself clear. We haven't stopped working. I have given you the example of the Gibraltar Field, I give you the example of security migration, I give you the example that with you, ruling with the PP, you were reduced by 12,000 troops. With us, in a year in Catalonia there are 800 more troops. Do you believe that the reality that Barcelona is living - that we do not hide, because we work and face it - is a matter of a month or two? That is a matter of years, years of not working on security, and we are facing it. You know that, and I ask you not to believe alarm, because Spain is a safe country. You have been in areas such as tourism and economics; if you really have a sense of state and are patriotic, do you think you can generate falsehoods? What we do is deal with the issues: more material means, more personal means. In this we are investing, with an infrastructure plan, addressing the salaries of the State Security Forces and Corpses and - as I say again - more effectively. You had the privilege of working under the orders of the best Minister of the Interior: how little you have learned from him. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN FUNCTIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF LESSERS IN CATALUNE SCHOOLS BETWEEN ADOCTRINATION IN TEXT BOOKS AND BETWEEN ACTIONS CONCERNING THEIR INTIMITY AS THE SPECION DESCRIPTED IN THE STUDY PERFORMED BY THE CATALAN LANGUAGE PLATFORM? [[File number 180/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u161	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u162	Minister, what would you say to many Catalan constitutionalist parents, who see how their children can be spied on in school to see what language they speak or are taught a manipulated history of Spain? What would I tell them? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u164	Yes, Your Honor, we protect the rights of all children, those of Catalan schools, as well as those of the rest of Spain, with all the instruments of the rule of law, and we will continue to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u166	Minister, do you know what many parents have heard from you in the last few days? Denial, denial of the infamy your children suffer in many schools. Even you, in an interview, were surprised when you were given an example of historical manipulation in schools. He said he'd never heard of it. I ask you: Where do you report, Minister, on TV3? Who do you call to find out what's going on in schools in Catalonia, Pilar Rahola? Yeah, he's been spying on the kids at school. A radical separatist entity - hyper-subsidized, by the way, by the Generalitat of Catalonia - pulls out the chest for having done so. Yeah, there's indoctrination in schools. It is denounced by many families - by the way, which are then pointed out - and also by trade unions and publishers. But do you know who does it too? The staff of the General Administration of the State, who in February 2018 made a report denouncing these abuses. At the time, he ruled the PP, and the PP put him in a drawer, but you shut him down and threw the key away. You don't want to call it indoctrination so you don't bother your partners. But I ask you: What do you call this, Minister? Maps of Catalonia as if it were an independent country of Spain, listed from countries of the European Union where Catalonia appears as one more, as if it were France or Germany, or even affirmations as that Catalonia had had its own king until the Modern Age. This is also what happens in schools. But there is also separatist propaganda: ties, stellates, political slogans. Is that what you have to say to the parents, that nothing happens and that protects them? Nationalism has been indoctrinating for decades. It is true, and it has done so with the governments of the PP and the governments of the Socialist Party, but they are now doing so with their complicity. Why? Because they rule with them in the Barcelona Diputation. How are they going to tell nationalism to stop indoctrining if they rule with Puigdemont in the Barcelona Parliament? How are you going to push the High Education Inspectorate if you attack it and criticize it? I feel that he is going to spend more time in his response to trying to criticize Citizens than to criticize those who commit this infamy, but I remind him that he not only responds to me; he is responding to many parents who have been demanding for years that you, the PP and the Socialist Party, once and for all defend their children in schools. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u168	Mrs Arrimadas, the Socialist Party has been defending the rights of education for many years in this country. But I will tell you more: the indoctrination you are talking about is a very serious crime, as defined in article 575 of the Criminal Code; very, very serious, it is related to terrorism. It is precisely the provocation and inculcation in the consciences in a proven and systematic way. You want me to tell you what you've been doing in your own Parliament? No questions on this subject in a year. And during the seven months of application of 155 with the PP, not a single disciplinary file for indoctrination. But I will tell you more: that so-called espionage, or so-called espionage, in fact, of an entity without any type of authorization has no value because it has no guarantee. We call it a bad practice, it's a very bad practice. [[Protests]] I'm sorry, the evidence you're throwing is just the opposite of what you're denouncing. The children have the courtyard as a space of freedom and speak 75% in Spanish, the official language of Catalonia, as well as Catalan, 75%. And you know why they do it? Because they have freedom and because they have no coercion. We advocate that they continue to have that freedom. Regarding textbooks, the editors' latest news was that there was no indoctrination in them. And it's logical that there isn't. [[Rumors and Protests]] It was December 2018. And they gave another one the other day, not talking about indoctrination, but about some examples, and what this government has done has been to call them this afternoon just to tell us what's going on. But I will tell you more: for years now, textbooks are not official books nor do they have to pass through the faithful or through public or administrative authority. Textbooks... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u169	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY IN FUNCTIONS: CAN YOU GUARANTEE THE MINISTER OF WORK THAT THE DESTRUCTION OF EMPLOYEES, COUNTERS, FIELD EMPLOYEES AND AUGUST AUTONOMS IS NOT TO BE REPEALED IN THE NEXT MONTHS, OR CONSIDERING THAT WITH THE PSOE IN THE GOVERNMENT THE INCREASE OF THE PARA IS INVIABLE? [[File number 180/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u170	Questions to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Question by Carolina Spain Reina, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what do you think of the job destruction in August?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. Madam Minister in office. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u173	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Spain Queen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u174	Minister, 213,000 people lost their jobs in August, 213,000, the highest figure in the last ten years. The left fighting for the armchairs and every day thousands of people go to unemployment. What a shame! You don't care about Spain or the Spanish. All they want is elections; no abstentions, elections. I will give you some data: the creation of self-employed people has been reduced to one third of the previous year, the indefinite contracts have collapsed; when we ruled the indefinite contracts were increased to 20%, now they are reduced to 20%. Temporary hiring is coming up, and you, the Podemos and the unions, looking the other way. You always bring unemployment, precariousness, ruin and temporality; it is that you are a threat to the Spanish economy. Minister, housing sales, vehicle sales, the arrival of foreign tourists, job creation are falling. You have now said that the maximum number of affiliates, 19.3 million affiliates, has been achieved. Of course, if we leave them 19 million affiliates! He said yesterday that the largest number of women members has been achieved, 8.9 million. Of course, if we leave them 8.8 million female affiliates! That is the heritage of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And you're living off the rents, but this has an expiration date. Do you know what they left us, Mr. Rajoy? More than 5 million unemployed. He said that more than 400,000 jobs are being created annually. But tell the truth: 600,000 jobs were created before. Don't cheat on the loner. And I'm gonna tell you something else. There's our legacy: 3 million jobs created. Even his secretary of state has said what harm they did to Zapatero, who let more than 3 million jobs be destroyed. And that's the key, Minister, the PSOE destroys more than 3 million jobs and we create 3 million jobs. And the worst part is that you guys are gonna beat Zapatero. I tell you, Mr. Pedro Sánchez is going to make Zapatero a saint. I conclude with the words of President Casado: Spain does not deserve elections, but it does not deserve a president like Pedro Sánchez either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I am not in favour of falling into self-congratulation: more and better things can always be done, but I also do not want to fall into the catastrophe that you usually practice. The number of workers affiliated with Social Security in August has been exactly 19,320,227. As you know, it's the highest in a month of August. And with respect to August 2018, membership has grown in more than 480,000 people, and registered unemployment has fallen by more than 116 000, so, Your Honor, I have to tell you that jobs are being created, and quality jobs are being created. Thank you, President. That's what I meant by your cursing remarks. By the way, you can avoid the elections by abstaining; in your hand it is, so put it. [[Rumors]] And, Mrs. Spain Queen, you're sure you won't like to hear it at all, but the lowest numbers of Social Security affiliates and the highest unemployment figures, do you know when they gave up? Being President Don Mariano Rajoy. [[Protests]] Just over 16 million members and over 5 million people stopped. I have already pointed out, therefore, that jobs are being created, most of which are quality jobs; for the twelfth consecutive month, full-time and indefinite employment is being created, while temporary and part-time employment is decreasing. And compared to August last year, almost 94% of the jobs created are full-time jobs and almost 77% are indefinite jobs. On the contrary, during the seven years of government of the People's Party, in every month - not only during the months of August, but in all - the number of temporary and part-time workers increased. Absolutely, in all the months of August - and you know it perfectly well - the number of people affiliated with Social Security is reduced compared to the months of July. Obviously, we have a labour market very affected by seasonality and we will have to try to improve it. We are aware that a part of our working people are subject to a high level of rotation in the labour market and we have put in place a master plan for decent work, with two shock plans, to avoid part-time fraudulent recruitment and temporary contracts in law fraud. By the way, 85 000 letters have been sent and we hope that they will benefit more than 238 000 working people. Our commitment is to ensure decent, quality and rights-based employment. We're not gonna... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u177	Thank you, Minister. - of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common pute-galicia in common, which forms the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security in Functions: Is the Government Signified Compromised with the Derogation of the Labour Reform of the People's Party? [[File number 180/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u178	She asked the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security in office of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Valerio, is the government committed to repealing the labour reform of the PP?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Vera. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u181	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government has been and is resolutely committed to social dialogue and relying on progressive political forces to repeal the most damaging aspects of the labour reform of the People's Party. We also want to work on the design of a new labour relations framework that responds to the new challenges facing our labour market; some of them are challenges not of the future, but of the present. We therefore hope to have the support of your parliamentary group so that, from now on, President Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón will be invested and that all these pending reforms can be carried out.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u182	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u183	We would like to see it now, Mrs Valerio, but in the document of 370 proposals that have been sent to us there is no such thing as a compromise by the Socialist Party. Frankly, I believe that we live in a country that presumes to create jobs, and should not, because one in two is a precarious job, because there are incredible numbers of workers splashed by temporality and precariousness and their collective bargaining capacity is limited. In addition, we live in a country with strong economic contradictions. On the one hand, we know that the price of housing rental has risen in the last five years thirty times more than wages, and on the other hand, for example, it prevents young people from being emancipated and there are pensioners who have to work and collect in black. In addition, in the last ten years the number of superriches has increased nothing more and nothing less than in 611, if I do not give wrong the data. Therefore, it is clear that what has happened in these years is that the responsibility for the crisis has been dealt absolutely badly and has always fallen on them. A system is not decent when we are talking about Kellys who charge two euros to clean a room, that public health nurses are hired for hours or that forest firefighters are in the conditions they are in, which this summer they have denounced with all the reason of the world. Honestly, of course we had negotiated that, but you're taking steps back. That was something we negotiated thanks to the push of the United Nations We can in the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State. They have not come forward, but, I insist, where is in those 370 measures that you want to be the trampoline to support Pedro Sánchez's investiture for free? Moreover, it is not a compromise with us, with Unidad Podemos; the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party has been an electoral promise of Pedro Sánchez himself, who won votes thanks to saying that to the citizens, and then did not fulfill it. Moreover, that happened in 2015, but in February of this same year you yourself told my colleague Yolanda Díaz that you were going to bring him in the form of a royal decree on those famous social Fridays that have served to make so much election campaign. Therefore, the doubt is, if you include it now, how we guarantee that it will be true this time, so many years after coming saying that it will be true that that commitment is real. How is it guaranteed that this commitment will be real, Mrs Valerio? Explain it to me, and the same thing the stars line up and there may be an agreement. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Vera. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u185	Your Honor, it is better to leave the possible agreement in the hands of people, than not in the stars. I think it's much safer to trust people and not the stars. [[Applauds]] I would ask you sincerely to read in depth the document of the 370 measures. You are well aware that this Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as other parliamentary groups, including yours, have been working to repeal those more damaging aspects of labour reform. Even, there was a presentation, with a multitude of compromise amendments, but in the end, the General Budgets of the State of 2019 could not be carried forward. That involved advancing the general elections and derailing that possible reform, as, by the way, you helped derail an agreement in the Toledo Pact to renew its recommendations. Anyway, you have to have memory for everything. The repeal of these more damaging aspects of labour reform has always been and continues to be a pretension of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and this government. We cannot do this now in office because we cannot, of course, process bills. It is clear that our labour market needs, apart from abrogating the most harmful aspects of labour reform, a far-reaching reform, which is to make a new statute for workers to ensure a fair labour market, where there is a balance between the two sides, the business side and the workers' side, and to do so with the participation of social partners and political groups. And this, of course, is also reflected in our proposal, those 370 measures which I hope you will support by supporting the investiture of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u186	Thank you very much, Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. - OF THE DEVELOPED GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT ECONOMIC COST HAS IT HAD FOR THE PUBLIC ERROR OF THE STATE FROM JUNE 2018 TO THE CURRENCY, BY ALL THE CONCEPTS, INCLUDING THE AID AND SUBSIDITIONS GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO NGOs AND MORE ENTITIES CO-OPING WITH THE ILEGAL TRAFFIC OF HUMAN BEINGS, THE POLICIES OF THE ILEGAL IMMIGRATION IN SPAIN WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS KEEPING? [[File number 180/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u187	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what economic cost has it had for the state since June 2018 and until now, the policy of open doors to illegal immigration in Spain that the government maintains, including in the cost all concepts, such as aid and subsidies granted by the Government of Spain to NGOs and other entities cooperating in the illegal trafficking of human beings?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u189	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u190	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I confess that you have just asked me the easiest answer to all the questions I have had to answer since 7 June last year. Neither Spain has an open door policy, nor are there any subsidies or subsidies dedicated to cooperation with illegal trafficking in human beings. The economic cost is therefore zero euros. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u191	Thank you, Minister-in-Office. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u192	Your Honor, we already suspected in this group that this government is an unconscious government, in addition to being an absolutely guilty government; guilty of promoting illegal immigration into Spain; guilty of causing people to risk their lives trying to reach our Spanish coasts, which are European coasts; guilty of a huge senselessness and, moreover, of an unusual irresponsibility if you tell me that, on top of that, this has had a zero economic cost, because it has not only had a very high cost to the estuary, it is also that there is a cost that cannot be measured in economic terms, a cost of social cohesion, a cost of instability, a cost of crime that is occurring, as has been said here, in an absolutely intolerable way in many Spanish cities. This genuine migratory wave that you are fostering is of enormous irresponsibility. By the way, you who are the champions of egalitarianism and are the champions of proposing to women because of being women, doesn't it make you think that in these waves of migration that reach our fences there are only men? By the way, young and well-off men; they are not migrants, as you say, they are not refugees, they are immigrants who come here to destabilize our society; they are immigrants who put the security of Spain at risk; they are immigrants who attack our Civil Guard alive, to which you do not protect. That you tell us today that you don't have a cost is truly irresponsible. The cost is enormous, Your Honor. And there is an additional cost that you do not talk about either, which is the dehumanisation to which you subject these immigrants, to which you simply use to lower the labour costs in Spain. It is an enormous irresponsibility and what I will tell you is that this boonist vision that you have has had only one success, that is true, and that is that you have managed to pollute all the other groups in Congress, all the other parties that are afraid to ask about these issues because you have managed to expand that false boonism that is doing so much harm to the Spanish workers and to our society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u193	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u194	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, your speech, full of lies and falsehoods, is indeed dangerous for a peaceful and cohesive coexistence. It is false that this Government subsidizes ships that rescue immigrants in the Central and Western Mediterranean. The Government is fulfilling, in our rescue zone, its obligations under international law, a task which also dignifies us as a country and which is responsible for the rescue of the sea and the State Security Forces and Corpses. It is false that the NGOs to which we subsidize facilitate the illegal entry of people into our country; we talk about entities such as Red Cross, Caritas, Accem, CEAR, which receive finalist subsidies for the humanitarian care of people who, forced to flee from misery, disease or persecution, arrive in our territory. The aid is awarded after a public call and its amount is entered in the General Budgets of the State. Never forget, Mr Espinosa, that we serve human beings. We are, by the way, a country of political exiles and economic emigrants; we have a certain tradition which, by the way, we still have. I don't know if you in your family have had anyone who's ever been through this situation, but I have in my family, out of the two, political exiles and economic immigrants, and I liked being treated with dignity, which is how to treat human beings, with dignity. [[Applauds]] So it is false and defamatory for this government to cooperate with the human trafficking mafias. This Government, in close cooperation with countries such as Morocco, Mauritania and Niger, has significantly increased in one year the detention and disarray of trafficking networks in human beings, both in national territory and in countries of origin and transit. Finally, it is false that there is a policy of open doors, and one thing is enough to disassemble its fallacy: in one year, until 31 August 2019, the sum of irregular entries in the patera and by land in our country reflects a decrease of 45%. This government works day by day to get a legal, secure and orderly immigration, because this is how we commit ourselves within the framework of the United Nations Marrakesh Agreement... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u195	Thank you, Minister. - Mr Jon Iñarritu Garcia, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food the role of the Government in considering Spain as the second most decentralized state in the world, as expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council at the infamous meeting of inquiry? [[File number 180/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u196	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Question by Mr Joan Iñarritu García, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u197	Thank you very much, President. Minister, recently the President of the Government, in this House and earlier elsewhere, said that the Spanish state is the second most decentralized state in the world. Could you tell me what that statement is based on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u198	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you read the Spanish Constitution, if you read Article 2 and Title VIII, you will see that we are indeed an autonomous, decentralized state; and if you travel a little and see what happens in the European Union and the rest of the world, you will see that we are one of the most decentralized in the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u200	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u201	Beyond mantras, myths, fakes, there are already enough monographs and studies that show that the Spanish State has an intermediate level of decentralization, far from what can be States such as Canada, Switzerland, Belgium or Germany. It is true that some territories and their autonomous institutions have broad competences in some areas, but it is also true that in others they have few or none. You will remember the recent football match of the Spanish team against the Faroe Islands and not against Denmark, or the recent news that next year there will be a referendum of self-determination in Scotland without bollocks, without repression, without political prisoners, without 155, because there are territories in the world where their citizens own their institutional future, such as Quebec, Scotland, Northern Ireland, etc. The reality is that there is a territorial problem, in this case unresolved, and that there is also a continuous competitive invasion. There are territories that can develop complete public policies without any kind of invasion, delimitation or homogenization, through organic laws, basic laws, but the reality is that in the Spanish State today this territorial problem remains so evident that, last week in the presentation of its electoral proposal, of those three hundred and seventy proposals, there were plans that said they were to homogenize the policies of the State, pure chauvinism, because for them they would have to invade competences. If you want another example: after forty years of the Spanish Constitution, in the statute of Guernica, already obsolete, there are thirty-six powers or means that have not been transferred to the Basque institutions; the Foral Community of Navarre has twenty-five, and, on the other hand, to this day you have presented a plan with the Basque Government that you have not fulfilled, tell us if you are going to comply. Tell us why there are seven powers that are not ready to transfer either before or now and whether they will respect the statute adopted by the Basque Parliament. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u202	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u203	I'll start at the end, Mr. Congressman. This Government has again initiated a process of transfer to the Basque Autonomous Community which has been interrupted since 2011. We have therefore placed on the table and have already made three specific transfers, two relating to rail and one to the AP-1, to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. First element. Secondly, we see perfectly well that in this autonomous model we must deepen, but at the same time as we deepen it, we must respect the constitutional equality of all Spaniards and all Spaniards live where they live, and these two principles are essential for this government. As for your original question, that is, what we base ourselves on, you see, it is very simple, if you look at the world, autonomous communities or regions that have an autonomous executive, an autonomous assembly, a superior court, there are very few. If you combine this with a normative capacity but also with a financial capacity, both of income, expenditure or investment, you will configure what is contained in the study carried out by the OECD and the University of Oxford, the index of regional authority in its last edition of 2016, which constitutes Spain, after Germany and before Belgium, as the second most decentralized country in the world. You may or may not like it, but that is the reality. We must look at ourselves in the mirror and have, I believe, an uncompromising pride and a willingness to continue working and deepening our autonomous constitutional model that has yielded such good results in these forty years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION IN FUNCTIONS: WHAT CONCRETE MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSE WITH REGARD TO THE PRESENT AND FUTURE OF THE AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u205	Question addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition in office. Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u206	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, go on to say that this question about the present and future of the car sector was initially addressed to the Minister of Industry, but in her absence, and understanding that the work of the Government is coordinated and joint, will allow me to formulate it for you. The car industry in Spain is a key economic sector for the growth of the economy and also for labour stability, a sector, of course, leading, pillar in terms of investment and also innovation, and it must not be forgotten that it accounts for 10% of GDP in the Spanish State as a whole. In addition, this figure amounts to 25% and is giving employment to almost 41 000 people, an industry that is in the process of transformation or technological change and, in particular, the sector is immersed in a technological transition plan to new combustion systems that we believe needs a common public-private strategy to maintain not only its levels of competitiveness but also its international positioning. Moreover, it is a sector that is not going through its best time right now, as the figures are there and production and sales have been falling for eight months, a fall, moreover, which we believe is due to different factors, a slowdown, of course, of course, on the European market and also on the Spanish market. Also geopolitical difficulties. There are new habits and models in mobility, increased awareness of climate change, electrification of vehicles, regulatory changes and, in addition, emission restrictions imposed by the European Union, the origin of which is laid down in the Paris Treaty, which advocates zero CO2 emissions by 2050. Most of these factors depend on the adaptability of the sector itself. However, among all those I have mentioned, there is a factor which does not depend exclusively on the sector and which, in turn, constitutes its main challenge or challenge, which is the European Union's regulation to limit carbon dioxide emissions. It is a matter that will require, in addition to an important adjustment in the production of alternative fuel vehicles, a clear position of the various administrations on the proposals to be put forward in this regard, and I am referring to the possibility of banning the sale of combustion vehicles. The sector demands a certain course, security and not attend to...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Madam Minister in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u208	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for a question that, as you rightly say, is a question that reflects an extremely important matter for our country and where there is a government action behind it. It is a sector that is actually experiencing a process of very profound transformation due to technological changes, changes in demand and patterns and preferences of mobility services, but also to important changes in priorities and values of both public health and air quality, space occupancy or climate change, as he has pointed out. This is something that is happening globally. The only thing I disagree with what you have said is that the fall dates back to 2011 and has fallen hastily since 2015, coinciding with the dieselgate and the Asian market has been able to capture more quickly other forms of production. It is therefore crucial that the Government is absolutely committed to supporting a sector that represents a very large percentage of GDP and employment. And we do that in different ways because we believe that, as you also very well indicate, we have to work in all phases and in all elements of the value chain, component industry, where we are pointers and we will know that there will be more electronics than mechanics in the next time, assembly, where we have to maintain that attractiveness of good quality, but also of good logistic capacity and of a proximity market, infrastructure for that proximity market, financial services, after-sales services and alternatives in those mobility services. Therefore, at all these stages we have tried to reflect a series of actions that obviously have to be worked with the various representatives of the sector. Here I presented my colleague, the Minister of Industry, the Strategic Car Action Plan, in support of the automotive sector last March. They included policies to boost the vehicle with alternative energies, to stimulate the demand for such vehicles, to support the implementation of such infrastructure capabilities that allow us to accommodate such vehicles, but also other types of fiscal or legislative measures, such as the repeal of the figure of the cargo manager, facilitating electrification, or the maintenance of tuition tax bonuses so that the accompanying process can be attractive while working with flexibility, maintaining the rights and capacity of workers in the sector, thinking above all about the stake for such retraining of workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u209	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u210	We are now dealing with appeals to the Government in office. Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the granting of pardons to separatist leaders. For your defense, Mr. French Ball has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mrs. Delgado. This is the first time I have come up to this rostrum of speakers and I say to you that I do so with the same illusion, the same emotion and the same desire as the first time I put on the state's lawyer's robe and I had to appear before the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court defending Spain also in a cassation appeal. And it is that, Mrs Delgado, my speech has to do precisely with this, with the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court and with defending Spain. You will wonder why, in such a recurring way, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group asks the Government whether it is actually going to pardon those who have been tried in this trial that we call the trial trial. I'm telling you. We just don't get an answer, that's the question. The Government does not give us an answer to a question that is very simple to answer. Mr Rivera has asked Mr Sánchez on many occasions in this House whether he is going to pardon the coup prisoners, those convicted, when they are convicted, of the trial. In the election campaign it was a repetitive issue, even in the television debate, and Mr Sánchez has not answered. When a political leader of the relevance of the President of the Government is asked a question that is simple to answer, because it is a yes or a no, we find that the Spanish people wisely use that saying that says 'He who is silent gives'. It fills us with fear that you will not answer us because it seems that you are saying that you are going to pardon them or, in the new way of talking about candidate Sanchez, perhaps you are thinking, as we have heard in this House this morning, I hope you will not condemn them. [[Applauds]] I hope that's not what the president of the government is thinking. You were asked here by my parliamentary group on 14 November 2018 on this same issue, a few months ago, and you answered in the same way that you have previously answered another question that has been put to you. He said: The trial has not yet been held and all Spanish citizens have the right to pardon. Mrs Delgado, the trial has already been held and we have all seen it on television. We have seen the evidence and there is no one in this country who understands that the sentence will be entirely absolut. Mr. Torra, who has already said that he will not abide by it, does not understand. Therefore, do not seek this excuse and answer the question, even though the sentence has not yet been handed down. Secondly, he said that all citizens were entitled to pardon. What an obviousness! Of course, all citizens have the right to pardon. The Pardon Act of 1870, as you rightly say, does so. You know - you have told another parliamentary group before - that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group does not like the Pardon Act of 1870. We do not like it because we understand that it undermines the division of powers, because we understand that it introduces one more element of politicization within the Administration of Justice and we do not like it because it also establishes inequalities between citizens according to their criminal responsibilities, leaving them to the whim or political action of the Government. [[Applauds]] We don't like it. Do you know what we like about Citizens? We like the rule of law and, although we do not like a law, we abide by it, respect it and comply with it, unlike other parliamentary groups in this House who, when the law does not like it and pursuing a series of fanatical purposes, prefer to break the Constitution, violate the law and disobey the mandates of the Constitutional Court. They are the ones who say that for them it will not be that Pedro Sánchez is not president of the government; those who have not come here today because it seems that this place is not noble enough to be able to celebrate here today the day of Catalonia, of all Catalans and not only of a part of them. [[applause]] Nor am I protected in the legal analysis I have heard before and you will understand that you have read me the previous question of November 2018, because this is not a legal debate; this is a political debate. I'm only interested in two things from law. One, article 21 of the Act states that the Government, even ex officio, may promote the pardon file. It is not even necessary for the convicts, their relatives or any other person on their behalf to ask for it. And two, pardon has to be granted for reasons of justice, equity or public utility. Here in this indeterminate concept of public utility is where politics comes in. The question is: Do you understand, Mrs Delgado, that it is of public use to sell pardons in exchange for Pedro Sánchez's investiture? Is this of public use for Spain? [[Applauds]] I tell you what my parliamentary group says: this is of the most absolute public futility and undermines the rights of all Spanish constitutionalists. [[Applauds]] The spokesman for these Members who have not been pleased today to meet their obligation to attend the plenary session of the Congress says that it will not be for them that Pedro Sánchez is not president of the government. They also call on the United Nations We can reach an agreement with you because you say that when the sentence is issued - which seems to be imminent, as all media say - your abstention or positive vote will be more difficult. This is a parliamentary group, as we have seen in the Permanent Chamber, which is dedicated to infaming the name of Spain abroad, which is dedicated to saying that we are a Fascist State, a failed State and a State where fundamental rights are not respected. That is, the decision that Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia is making to support Pedro Sánchez's investiture takes it in the general interest of Spain? No one believes that because they despise Spain. [[Applauds]] What have they asked for in exchange for that abstention or in exchange for that positive vote? What has the Socialist Party offered the Republican Left of Catalonia to support the investiture of the President of the Government? The pardon? Well, say it. Say it, because the Spaniards need to know. Be honest. If so, say so. Or, if you want, say I wish you wouldn't condemn them, which would make me very afraid to hear it from the Minister of Justice. You'll say we see ghosts where there are no ghosts, won't you? Well, I've heard before from many of your party leaders that you in the fifteen months of government are creating a framework for dialogue to restore coexistence in Catalonia. Dialogue with whom? Dialogue with those who tell them that their policy is that of confrontation. Stop calling it dialogue. It's called surrender. It's called humiliation. [[Applauds]] That's what it's called what you're doing. [[Applauds]] And you know what I tell you? That in these fifteen months what has happened is that the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, the first thing that does nothing more to reach the Moncloa is to lift the controls that the Ministry of Finance carries on the Catalan budgets, and that allows the Government of Torra to reopen the embassies. You make a policy of absolute tolerance with the use of yellow bonds in public buildings. You send Mr. Iglesias to negotiate the General Budgets of the State to jail with Junqueras. You move the entire government to Barcelona to agree on the twenty-one points of infamy and, moreover, you hide them from the Spaniards, and it must be Mr Torra who says that these twenty-one points exist. They accept a rapporteur as an international mediator. Many leaders of his party say they were very uncomfortable because politicians are in jail while the trial is taking place. And finally, the drop that fills the glass is that Mr.Iceta and the government delegate in Catalonia say you have to be brave and think about the pardons. Mrs Delgado, I tell you clearly, I demand it on behalf of the Spaniards, be brave, come up here and tell us all: we are not going to pardon them. Tell us. We're gonna stay calm. You're going to sleep much better, I assure you. [[Applauds]] Because you know what happens when the government finds itself in this indefiniteness, when it doesn't say no? What happens is that we are emboldened by Torra, we come up: we promise a warm autumn after the sentence; he tells the CDRs to tighten the repressive state; he tells us that he will not abide by a sentence that is not absolutary and, finally, what is already an atrocious shame, he says they will do it again. Why does Mr. Torra say that? Because he feels unpunished, because you do not tell him that, when the sentence is handed down, these convicted persons will, like any Spanish, fulfill the integrity of the sentence for the most serious crimes that exist in the Criminal Code against the constitutional order. That's why I'm asking you to come up here and say that we're not going to pardon them, that you're not going to pardon them, and shut up to Torra. [[Applauds]] I leave for the end, as you will understand, an act that I also understand of State surrender to the separatists and that you will also understand that I am here. It is the moment when Judge Llarena appreciates at the end of the investigation that acts of violence have taken place in Barcelona on 20 September and 1 October. We meet with four magnificent prosecutors, his career colleagues, who say that, in fact, there have been these collective acts of violent uprising against the constitutional order, and yet you force the procedural representation of the Government of Spain to remove from the account of the facts any word that sounds like violence. Are you responsible, Mrs. Delgado? Did you give that order? Were you the one who ordered the State Attorney's Office not to talk about violence? And if you did, what was it based on, if you weren't on the instruction? Why did he do it? To get a budget law? It's a lot of questions, I know, I don't know if you're gonna remember them all, I'll repeat it later if you want in the replica, but let's not divert the focus. Come up here and tell us: we are not going to pardon them. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u212	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Madam Minister of Justice in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, welcome to this House. [[Laughter]] I understand that you have to win the seat and you have committed yourself to it. [[rumors and protests.-Applause]] But look... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u215	Mr Bal, just under a year ago, in November, your parliamentary group asked me the same question, or very similar, and in the same terms. Here we are in the house of popular sovereignty; the government is subject to parliamentary control. We are demonstrating it day by day and constantly. [[Rumors]] Today, right here, you have been able to verify this, unlike the previous executive. And we do so with complete responsibility, because it cannot be otherwise, because the people, popular sovereignty, deserve it. Therefore, that responsibility must also be asked of the opposition, of any opposition group: to be here and to exercise the opposition without thinking exclusively of electoral revenues, which is the only thing you do, and yet they are getting worse and worse. [[Protests]] There is not a single original argument that you have justified in your intervention that supports the urgency of this inquiry. Then they were wrong, and now, even more so, they've been wrong. This government, now in office, has had a firm commitment to the rule of law, to the defence of legality and, of course, Mr Bal, to justice. Catalonia and the conflict there has been a priority for this Executive because we are responsible. The Socialist Party already showed, when it was in the opposition, a very high sense of state; it accompanied the then Government in those measures that were necessary and precise in the face of an extreme situation, with an extraordinary responsibility that has not been demonstrated by any other opposition group. Later, and already as a Government, one of the priorities of this Executive, Mr Bal, has been to ensure that the process against those accused of the events of 1 October is fully transparent and that judges and prosecutors can act without being impaired, affected or disturbed, Mr Bal, their independence and autonomy. And, believe me, it has not been easy at all because groups such as yours or those of your right-wing or extreme right-wing partners have devoted themselves from the minute one to influencing the progress of the process, in an exercise of political disloyalty and lack of responsibility, Mr Bal, which will remain for the annals of history. [[Rumors]] Yes, sir, of interference in the judiciary. You were not satisfied with the photo of Columbus - what are we going to do to him! - and, in addition, you are fully allied in this strategy of madness to interfere in the judiciary, in its independence. They have been accusing this government for months - as you have just done, as has been done in the previous speeches - of pacts with the independents in exchange for remaining in power. Look, here the only ones who have aligned with the independenceists have been their group and the People's Party to prevent any State General Budgets that were good for the citizenry from coming forward. [[Applauds]] Because you have joined the independenceists, only you. The Spaniards can't be fooled. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: Correct]] They can commit, they can come, they can talk, but the Ministry of Justice and the members of the Government have been concerned to defend the judges, the Spanish courts and the system of procedural guarantees that we have, which is one of the best in the world. Do you know where? Out there, in the world, where the lewdness of the People's Party had left us at the feet of the horses. They had not been concerned to place on their site all those who had built a story against Spanish justice. [[Applauds]] And here, this government has gone around the world explaining the system of guarantees we have, our Constitution, our laws. We are one of the best and highest-quality democracies in the world, and this is what this government has told us, and this is what all the ministers of this government have told us, because we, Mr Bal, are concerned about Spain, we are concerned about the quality of Spain and we are concerned about what they say outside of Spain. The Government, Mr. Bal, has made available to the judiciary all the material and human resources that have been requested to ensure a good administration of justice, and to ensure that the trial, a historic trial that has been held in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, could be carried out with full assurance, to the extent that the President of the Supreme Court himself, President of the General Council of the Judiciary, has addressed himself in writing to the Ministry of Justice, thanking us for our efforts to ensure that the trial is conducted in the conditions under which it was conducted. Far from defending the independence of the judiciary or the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, as this government, this executive, has done, you have made political use of the process: you have not respected the work of the judges; you have not respected the work of the prosecutors; you have done so before the trial with the interpellation that was made to me in the same terms, and you are doing so now, Mr. Bal, knowing - I suppose you know - that the process is in full deliberation, that the Supreme Court, the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, the seven judges of the Supreme Court must enjoy the tranquility and calm necessary for deliberation, and you are here raising a question that you should not raise. Why? For what? Are you trying to interfere in that independence, in that deliberation, Mr. Bal? Why right now? [[Applauds]] Then I told them - and now also - that the Law of Pardon, which you may like more or less but it is a law - sorry, what we will do to you!, we have to comply with the law, because the law obliges us all and we are all equal before the law -, has a number of requirements, and one of them is that there is a sentence and that there is a conviction, and that that sentence, moreover, Mr. Bal, is firm. And you know why? Well, look, for two reasons. The first, because the sentence may contain grounds of fairness or justice for granting pardon, but also, Mr. Bal, because article 20 of the Criminal Code gives the prerogative to the court, for example, to propose pardon to the Government. Therefore, Mr Bal, you cannot advance anything, not even what the Supreme Court can do or stop doing. That is why I think it is worth reviewing the Pardon Act, Mr Bal, and the Penal Code, which I think has something forgotten. [[Rumors]] Do you remember...? Well, Mr. Bal, you did not then belong to this party or were not a member of this party or of Parliament, but members of your current group said that the government had agreed with the Independenceists to secure the 2019 budgets. [[rumors]] Do you remember? I don't know if you remember. Well, it's the same. [[Rumors]] Do you remember when you, day after day here in Congress, and outside of it, accused the president of being clinging to the chair and of agreeing with independentists the budget, the pardon of the defendants or anything else that was invented on the march and on the way, Mr. Bal? You lied to the citizens. You were using lies and fallacies with the citizens, because you, only you, in the end - I repeat it and I repeat it because it seems to me that you have to - are the only ones who have joined the independenceists to prevent good budgets, very good for the citizens, as was our draft budgets, from being approved. And now you, Mr Bal, and the other members of your group, are going to tell the pensioners, the dependents, the students, the users of health care; and you are going to tell them. [[Applauds]] If they were disrespectful to the Spaniards, Mr Bal, with that Spain which is not theirs, which is of all of us, if they have been disrespectful to this Spain, they are being much less so to the judges who are prosecuting a very difficult procedure, where they have to take into account many circumstances, where what we have to take all, all of us, into account is that they have the precise and necessary rest to make a judgment according to the facts, according to the legal qualification and the justice, and that it is justice. With this interpellation - we return to the same - you are trying to interfere. It's wrong. Do you know why, Mr. Bal? Because it has been an impeccable trial, because it has been a transparent trial, because it has been a trial that has left the quality of Spanish justice at a very high level. It has been a trial that we must congratulate ourselves on, where day by day we have been able to appreciate the evidence, the testimonies, the experts, where...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u216	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u217	I'm finishing up, Madam President. You cannot with interpellations like this, Mr. Bal, cloud that trial, cloud that action. In this government from beginning to end, from minute one - and I would almost tell you that from minute to minute minus one - we have been concerned to preserve the independence of the judiciary, the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and, in addition, Mr Bal, to ensure that all the necessary means for the development of this trial are developed. So I beg you that, aside from ideologies - you may be on one side, you may be in the antipodes with VOX; it's the same, it's nothing -,...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u218	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u219	I'm done, Madam President. The important thing is that justice can carry out its work with full guarantees. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u220	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Mr Bal Francés has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u221	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mrs. Delgado, I want to thank you very much for saying that I am winning my seat. That's why I've come; I've come here to work. They haven't left us much. When the General Courts began to function, it took a long time for the Commissions to be set up, we are not allowed to deal with the legislative proposals that we put forward because only those of the Socialist Group are allowed, but I assure you that I have come here to work, to remain a servant of my country; what I have been all my life. [[Applauds]] Secondly, you also tell me that there are no grounds for urgency. Are there no grounds for urgency when this judgment is apparently to be delivered in the first half of October - or before the first half of October - and Mr. Torra says he is not going to comply with it? Is there no reason for urgency? Do you think this is not an urgent matter? Is it not urgent to know whether the Government is going to pardon those who may be convicted of this sentence when Torra is going to burn the street? With what face will you then look at Catalan citizens when the sentence comes out and you really burn down the street by fulfilling Mr. Torra's threats? [[Applauds]] Tell Mr. Torra that if they do it again, we're going to slow him down again; we're not going to pardon them. Tell him now; tell him now to prevent the street from burning, to prevent him from feeling unpunished. I ask you now, when you come to the rostrum of speakers, to reflect on the words you have just spoken, and I ask you for the following question. You say that my parliamentary group and I, speaking here from this rostrum of speakers and asking the Government a question as relevant as if it is going to pardon those who might be convicted of this sentence, are dissatisfying the seven judges of the Supreme Court who are now deliberating on the sentence. But who did you think those seven brilliant Supreme Court judges were? [[A Member: Please!-Applause]] But who did you think you were? Do you think you yourself, as Minister of Justice, can dissipate them? Do you think I can make them nervous? Do you think that by a question from my parliamentary group we will influence the outcome of the sentence? Are you saying that these magistrates are not the best magistrates in Spain? What are you saying? What are you saying? That by a question we try to influence the seven judges of the Supreme Court? He says you're dedicated to defending the judges. I have been working with the Spanish judges for 25 years and I assure you that they do not need to be defended by the Government of Spain, they defend themselves. They are people who give all the work, who do it every day, who are self - sacrificing, and who do it even though they do not give them the means to do so in conditions from their ministry. [[applause]] They do, because they're public servants, better than you. [[Applauds]] He says that we have allied ourselves with the independenceists, we citizens, when some of the leaders of my party who go to Catalonia have to escort them because they are threatened with death. We have allied ourselves with the independenceists because we have not voted in favour of their budgets. Mrs. Delgado, that's pure and hard sectarianism. [[Applauds]] So it is said: whoever is not socialist is not Spanish, does not watch over the common good. You are saying this when in the report of Global Spain, which the other day I had to defend in the Permanent Chamber, it is expressly said that Albert Rivera and Inés Arrimadas have received death threats in Catalonia, and you say so yourself. Are you saying that my group aligns itself with the independenceists, those who do not come to Parliament on Diada Day? Think a little more before you say the things you say. Finally, I would like to ask you: does the Government intend to put in place this dossier which it can even propose on its own initiative to pardon? And you answer me: You will have to explain to the Spaniards what they have done with the pensions. Honestly, Mrs Delgado, I don't know if anyone in the House has heard any answers to the question. I've asked you two things just now. One: Are you responsible for the state's attorney's writing? Two: Come here, go up to the rostrum and leave us alone. Tell the Spaniards that he is not going to pardon those who committed a crime against the Spanish Constitution and wanted to end Spain. Nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u222	Thank you, Mr. Bal. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government in office, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bal, I don't have to leave you alone; I'm going to leave the Supreme Court and its deliberations alone. Because, you, Mr. Bal, what you're doing is prejudge that you're going to be convicted. They're deliberating and there's still no conviction. You've pointed out that you've been in court for 25 years. We're not going to breastfeed, but I'm 30 and I know perfectly well how the courts work. [[laughs]] You were gonna blow up the D.A.'s office and we were the D.A.'s Anti-Terrorist. [[Applauds]] But now I will tell you one thing: as minister in office of the Government of Spain I will work and defend the calm and independence of the judiciary from you, your group or anyone who needs it. I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] I am not in any way surprised that you are asking me this question, in view of the question that Mr Ortega asked me earlier in the control session, exactly the same. Why, Mr. Bal? I'll explain. I'm going to explain that when you were still in state law and were responsible for the cause of the trial you transferred to your superiors a concern you had inside and it was how you were going to explain to the VOX popular prosecution that you were not going to align with the indictment and that prosecution. That is to break the most elementary principles of ethics and professional ethics, as a public official and as a lawyer. [[Applauds]] Today it becomes clear to me again, Mr Bal, that you are still in full connection with Mr Ortega and with VOX, your group is in union with the VOX group. And they're wrong because they won't influence the Supreme Court, of course not! And you know it, but despite that, they want to scratch votes. [[Rumors]] The Spanish Constitution, our high standard of coexistence, Mr Bal, has basic principles that cannot be skipped either directly or indirectly and, among them, is the separation of powers, the presumption of innocence and the independence of judges and magistrates. In the past elections, Mr Bal, the Spaniards expressed their confidence in the government, in this socialist government, they have maintained it and they maintain it. This Government has had maximum respect for this judicial independence. I will tell you one thing, Mr Bal, in politics, as in professional life, not everything is worth it. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the floor.- Mr Bal Francés asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Bal, it's a well-deserved and closed debate. [[Mr. Bal Francés: You said I'm a bad professional]] I'm sorry, Mr. Bal, I can't give you the floor, it's a closed and settled debate. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament THE STATUS OF CLIMATE EMERGENCY IN SPAIN, IN THE CHALLENGE OF GREAT IMPACTS THAT CLIMATE CHANGE IS CONCERNED IN OUR COUNTRY, AND WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF ARRANGING IMPORTANTLY MEASURES OF MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION TO THE CLIMATE AND ECOLOGICAL CRISIS IN WHICH WE ARE immersED. [[File number 172/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u225	Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common concerning the need to declare the state of climate emergency in Spain in the face of the serious impacts that climate change is having on our country and with the aim of urgently arbitrating mitigation and adaptation measures in the face of the climate and ecological crisis in which we are immersed. For your defence, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u226	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this morning we had the opportunity to hear the President of the Government speak about climate change and climate emergency. I am aware that the President of the Government met with environmental organizations in that round he did during the month of August with various social organizations and environmental organizations have valued that meeting and what came out of that meeting. Indeed, I must say that they are not particularly satisfied with the result of it and they themselves have put it in writing, talking about the programme of the 370 proposals that the Socialist Party finally presented. They say that the program sometimes fails by omission and in others by resorting to generalities peculiar to those who do not dare to make real changes. I believe that this view of environmental organisations reflects very well the problem that we are having with exactly environmental policies and policies to combat climate change in our country: that we are not really going to the root causes that lead us to the situation in which we are in. [[The Lord]] Thousands of young people are asking us on the streets, and this has only just begun. We have to deal decisively with the climate emergency, even if it is only out of solidarity with younger and future generations. That is why we have decided, from the United Nations Group, to bring this debate to the House with the aim that, by adopting the motion that we will be presenting next week, we will adopt a framework with the maximum consensus to fight decisively against global warming. Scientific consensus is overwhelming. Industrial activity over the past one hundred and fifty years has caused unprecedented climate change due to its speed, generating progressive and severe impacts on human populations and territories throughout the planet. Carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere increase year after year, reaching already 416 parts per million in 2019, a ratio that has not been observed for millions of years. Global warming is the main threat to human beings in the present twenty-first century. We are in the midst of an unprecedented climate emergency and there is no more timely inquiry than this because Spain is particularly vulnerable to this situation. Temperatures in our country have risen above the European average and the availability of resources such as water makes us particularly vulnerable. Climate change is generating health conditions. Temperature changes allow the adaptation of disease-transmitting insects, such as malaria, that were so far unknown in our territory. According to the Spanish Meteorology Agency, Aemet, 32 million Spaniards are already suffering the negative consequences of land warming. For example, and without going any further, in this city of Madrid, tropical nights have doubled since 1971 and heat-shock deaths throughout Spain have multiplied by five, reaching 446 in the last twelve years. The productive sectors, especially the primary sector, and the conservation of biodiversity and marine and terrestrial ecosystems are being affected. The increase in temperatures increases the frequency and virulence of adverse weather events on the five continents. Heat and cold waves, droughts and extreme rainfall, and climate events such as hurricanes and tropical storms are increasing every year throughout the world, affecting the lives of millions of human beings and their essential access to the most basic food and water resources. Because of its recent impact, we can talk about Hurricane Dorian, but we already know, because the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has told us, that the frequency and intensity of hurricanes will increase. Describing the impact of the Dorian on the Bahamas, someone said it looked like a nuclear bomb had been dropped. Global warming will cause exponential socio-political instability, generating displacements of millions of people across all continents, especially in Africa, Asia and Latin America. [[The lady]] Hunger, desertification, land devastation and rising sea levels due to changes in the planet's climate patterns have and will have negative consequences for the populations of large regions. Migration flows will be much greater than we have known so far. To reduce uncontrolled global warming and to try to limit its effects, it is imperative to promote as many actions as necessary to reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gases. However, the actions being pursued by the international community are insufficient. The emission reduction commitments made by the countries that are members of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change are not binding and will not, to date, be able to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement so that the temperature of the planet does not exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. We are already in 2019 and there are only 2 fractions left to reach this last figure. The special report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, published in 2018, describes serious impacts on the planet, with a 2-degree increase compared to a 1.5-degree increase. It is also specific that limiting global warming to 1.5° is still possible if public administrations, industrial sectors, the scientific community and the civilian population take effective coordinated action, and that is exactly what we are looking for and what we are seeking with this initiative. However, despite the fact that gas emissions in the EU fell by 21.9% in twenty-seven years, between 1990 and 2017, Spain's emissions for the same period increased by 17.9%. This ratio increased by 10% between 2016 and 2017 and, if this path continues, emissions by 2040 will be virtually the same as those recorded in 1990, and this implies that Spain will not be able to meet its European commitments or the objectives of the Paris Agreement. All Governments - national, regional and local - have a duty to recognize the seriousness of this threat and to articulate binding and effective commitments to reduce its causes and impacts. Bold climate action will consolidate economic benefits in terms of new jobs, economic savings, market opportunities and essentially in terms of security and well-being for people from Spain, Europe and the whole planet. According to Eurostat, the energy revolution will create in ten years between 128,000 and 200,000 net jobs in Spain; if we accelerate the change the number of jobs generated can be much higher. The United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, as well as local governments around the world, are already promoting the climate emergency declaration to promote greater and binding commitment to their political and social agendas, in order to address this threat and to raise awareness among populations, industry and public managers at the same time. Spain must assume its decisive role in this context and position itself as an international leader in the fight against climate change. In Spain, AEMET, the State Meteorology Agency, in its various analyses on the impact of climate change alerts the increase in temperatures. Studies show how the rise in temperature is particularly intense over the past decade, a fact consistent with the fact that the warmest years were mostly recorded in the 21st century; to this we add that a large part of the historical extremes of maximum temperatures are concentrated in the last decade. Analyzing the annual variability of average seasonal temperature in Spain since 1971, it is observed how the average temperatures of all seasons are increasing, although the rise is more clearly seen in spring and especially in summer; hence, AEMET concludes that summer is the season most affected by climate change. A summer that according to the data has become ever longer and warmer: now in Spain we have five more summer weeks than forty years ago, and we do not have to go very far, this last month of August has been a slightly humid and very warm month throughout Spain, with an average temperature of 0.9° above the average, which makes it the fifth consecutive August with values higher than normal. This increase in temperatures already has discernible impacts on the Iberian peninsula, among them, also according to AEMET, a clear increase in the extent of semiarid climates. It can be estimated that the area affected is more than 30 000 km2, around 6% of the area in Spain. Large forest fires are affecting more and more territory; fires in Spain destroyed between 1 and 25 August a total of 71,400 ha, which is more than triple the land affected in the same period of 2018. By the way, 18% of this area belongs to the Canary Islands, which have suffered a devastating situation this summer. Warming is very noticeable in the seas. The average surface temperature of the Mediterranean has increased at a rate of 0.34° per decade since the early 1980s, as shown by daily temperature evolution data from 1982 to 2019. This leads to an increase in sea level, which since 1993 has resulted in an increase of 3.4 mm per year. Our coastline, the space in which our main economic activity is based, is therefore seriously threatened. One of the natural resources most affected by rising temperatures is water. Data from the hydrographic confederations on the reduction of average flows in the Spanish rivers indicate that by the end of the century there can be a reduction in flows between 30 and 50 % in some rivers, which is dramatic for a country where water is already a scarce resource. [[The lady]] In short, we know - because scientific information is overwhelming - that our country is being seriously affected by climate change. This forces us to deal with the problem in all its magnitude. That is why we want to bring this initiative here so that Congress agrees that our country - if you are doing well - is in a climate emergency situation and that drastic, ambitious and urgent measures are needed to confront it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u227	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. Then, on behalf of the Government in office, I give the floor to the Minister for the Ecological Transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u228	Good afternoon, Madam President, thank you very much. Good afternoon, thank you very much, Your Honor. It always gives me great satisfaction that the various parliamentary groups, and in particular the United Nations We can - who appreciate and are sincerely concerned about this issue - bring the issue of climate change and the need to act on environmental issues and to transform our development model, our economic model and multilateralism in particular through the eyes of climate action. Spain has once again occupied its rightful space in terms of responsibility, in the desire to accompany domestic and international action, helping to build different models at a global level and also at a European level. We have embarked on an important path of change and yet, as you all know, insufficient, still pending development and full implementation. There is nothing more important and urgent than being able to do so in full power as soon as possible. It has been something that has been present in the action of this Government, now in office, since the first day of our action. We know perfectly well how much it affects the vital expectations of present and future generations, putting the world at risk as we know it. We have worked hard to be able to make a diagnosis and present here a calendar of solvent actions that generates trust, that is effective and that allows us to speed up action on climate without leaving anyone behind; because such a profound transformation, so profound in such a short time is only feasible with large doses of solidarity, with accompanying social policies, policies for employment and thinking about people and territories. We are certain that the current model of development is no longer viable, in the terms in which we have known it does not respond to the needs of our society and generates enormous problems that we leave in inheritance to our children and grandchildren. Society is aware of this, demands a different response, a scheme that places people at the centre and that integrates without any doubt, in a coherent manner and in all actions, the protection of the environment and the consideration of the limits of the planet as a fundamental element for economic and social progress and prosperity. The later, the harder; the later, the softer, the more cowardly, the more expensive. 2019 marks a paradigm shift in this direction. It is no longer grandparents or parents who exemplify their affection for their children and grandchildren, it is young people who, with barely contained rabies, demand urgent action in the fight against climate change and their right not to receive a poisoned inheritance from which they cannot escape. They demand climate justice, a climate justice that has many meanings and in all we must work, it affects justice between generations, it must also be given between countries, it must also be given in every society. Influencing the ethical dimension of the problem, stressing that it is unacceptable to condemn future generations, we are concerned about a reality in which the degradation of biodiversity, fires, pollution of our oceans, rising temperatures, soil quality, food security and the risk of desertification are increasingly evident. Many of these factors are fuelled by climate change, others are fuelled by external action of human origin, but not directly associated with greenhouse gas emissions, but rather with mismanagement, poor practice in our relationship with our environment and natural resources. The magnitude is visible and this makes us think that the declaration of a state of emergency that includes not only declarative elements, but also working hard on a rapid and urgent programme of action that is cross-cutting in all policies, is essential. Today it is not only decided in the negotiating rooms; today it is demanded and must be looked at the different institutions, the different decision-making centres - public and private - and our educated society, which must understand the consequences of each of their decisions, of their choices, including those of their vote. It is therefore a relevant debate in a House like this. Basic health and rights as a prerequisite for a dignified life and well-being are threatened; it is recognized by the United Nations itself. The greatest threat to human rights in time to come stems precisely from injustice, inequity and the physical risks of climate change. This explains why there is another extraordinarily powerful message that resonates in our ears more and more clearly: Tell the truth. And when you are told the truth does not mean that we do not know the scientific truth, even if there is someone who can deny it; it means that it is not worth dulifying the message, it means that there is a consensus of the scientific community that requires a level of action that, obviously, can have very different manifestations and combinations, but with a goal that we have already marked and that already obliges us, that is to achieve neutrality in terms of affection to the climate system in 2050, preventing the average level of the surface temperature of the planet from exceeding 2 oC or 1.5o at the best of the scenarios. And this is an enormously complex exercise. We cannot be naive, we are close to overcoming points of non-return, and transforming our economic reality, our social reality, it is not something that is done in a day, it is not something that is done in three months, it is not something that can be done through prohibitions, but it needs to mobilize in a transversal way each of the public policy measures, each of the behaviors and decisions of risk of investment of returns of economic actors, taking into account also the existence of global public goods, whose health or deterioration affect a territory and a population and therefore go far beyond the local and affect far beyond the sovereignty of the area we are talking about. In the specific case of Spain, the situation is very worrying. We are a highly vulnerable country for physical reasons, but we are also vulnerable from the socio-economic point of view. Agriculture, tourism and much of our industry depend to a large extent on a model that is in the midst of transformation. Therefore, information, monitoring, transformation, adaptability, the use of these policies to modernize our economy, our society, our productive fabric and build resilience to these physical impacts is crucial. We need a systemic change and that is very difficult to do without full connivance, without the demanding demand, without dialogue and informed debate of the representatives of the citizens, that is, of the Chambers, of the Parliaments. It can't be that doing things wrong or saying any nonsense comes out for free, and doing things right doesn't matter or despised. This Government understands that this is not an option. We have worked and will work to protect and preserve that heritage, but also to transform our economy in a profound way and to do so always bearing in mind that component of solidarity with the most vulnerable groups, that need to integrate this vision from education or vocational training policy to working conditions, taxation, the energy system, the economic system, the identification of risks, transparency or the impact of the financial sector, which must work to the service of the climate and not generating problems to the climate. With the adoption of the Paris Agreement, we have an important framework for action and global governance. It has taken us ten years to modernize those rules that the international community has been endowed with, strengthening the management of that climate system that we all care about. We need a new constructive multilateralism that responds to current realities, but this is not enough. The challenge is an irreversible fact and our country cannot be left out. The political will to address urgently the causes of climate change must be realized in the forums in which we participate. In this respect, it is good news that this new Commission is committed, with a new president who makes climate action part of that frontal of the new mandate, very closely followed by a European Parliament and a watchful society, who seek to accompany that domestic policy and that international weight of Europe in the world by looking for the future we want, the future we need and not with inertia, working or managing with patches the things we have before us. The Commission, in its first hundred days, at its next meeting, must present very important agreements and proposals affecting borders, setting a border rate that allows us to make a kind of sustainability check of everything that enters and exits, in a market for which the international obligations adopted in the multilateral context on sustainability will be required, therefore social and environmental and climate concerns, seeking a fund that will enable us to facilitate a fair transition that goes beyond the coal sector, being obviously the first important sector, and seeking to strengthen this resilience to the impacts of climate change. Governments must exercise their full responsibility. What they do or what they stop doing results in hindering or facilitating, anticipating or delaying the answers or the best solutions to the problems, for urgency, for the difficulties of addressing climate change, protecting, facilitating, guiding, making the decision of citizens and social and economic actors in the face of the climate emergency simple or, on the contrary, ignoring the evidence. We have understood that this is one of the main risks to the economic and social stability of our country, to the physical security of our territory, to justice between generations but, as I also said, to justice within our present generation, to our civil society, our industry and our businesses. This requires determination and coherence and, therefore, together with that climate emergency declaration which we hope will lead to the first meeting of the Council of Ministers, fully invested and in full use of its functions, we want to strengthen with the highest priority the policies of mitigation, adaptation to knowledge, dissemination and building bridges to ensure that all actors operate in the same direction, obviously discussing why there are very different combinations to reach objectives that, today, are binding in 2050, and we want them to move in a credible way throughout the path that goes from today to that date. We cannot look elsewhere, we need to close that frivolous debate which sometimes takes place about whether it is true or not, whether there is consensus or not, with unanimous support, the majority of our society as regards how we guide priorities and to what extent this is an urgent one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss these issues, you have the impression that the wave is finally surfing, but you do not go into depth with the problems and the need to address the solutions. We believe - as we have been saying - that in order to deal with such a serious problem in the first place we must break the current political dependence on energy oligopoly. [[Applauds]] It is not possible to cope with climate change if energy oligopoly continues to dictate energy policies in this country. It is not possible to tackle climate change seriously if we simply continue to accept the policy of revolving doors; this must be stopped in order to begin to address the problem in depth. We have just over a decade to take the necessary measures, to prevent this climate catastrophe and not to exceed the 1.5° increase in global temperature. This morning I heard the President of the Government talk about support for a 55% reduction in emissions at European level by 2030. It seems to me to be an important objective, but we must be aware that in order to achieve this reduction of 55% compared to 1990 this objective must be achieved by means of an annual reduction in our country from 7 to 10 % of greenhouse gas emissions. I do not know whether we are aware of the depth of the measures that need to be taken to achieve this reduction, which is exactly what the environmental organisations are saying in their manifesto, feeling that they have not been heard by the Sánchez Government after the meeting they had had. That is why I would like to propose ten specific measures which I will review very quickly. One relates to these ambitious objectives both for reducing CO2 emissions and for renewable energy. We have to reach a nearly 100 percent renewable model by 2030 and, if we are not able to do so, it will be very difficult for us to achieve those CO2 emission reduction targets. We are talking about energy efficiency and we are advocating a state sustainable housing plan to rehabilitate 25 million homes in this country in twelve years, mobilizing 400 million a year to be added to those of the Energy Efficiency Plan, 200 million a year, to have a large global sustainable rehabilitation fund. The plan will meet criteria of energy efficiency, accessibility, distributed energy and access to housing. In addition, biodiversity loss needs to be addressed. It is not possible that of the twenty measures that environmental organizations put on the table, only two of them are accepted by the Government. That is why the loss of biodiversity must be halted by concrete measures to ensure that ecosystems are safeguarded. We propose some: expanding the network of protected areas, providing adequate funding for biodiversity protection policies, an action plan against invasive alien species. Another proposal we are making is the immediate closure of solid waste incineration plants to reduce the toxic emissions these plants entail. In the transport sector, the reduction must be much more ambitious than the Government envisages, but it is not in vain the current maximum emitter and the sector that is growing the most in emissions. For this reason, the planned date to stop the sale of new motor vehicles in 2040 is far behind the dates foreseen by the countries of our environment, but even you have withdrawn that measure from the pressure document of the automotive industry. It can't be! If we are fighting climate change, we need to be aware of those measures and not of the interests of industry. [[The Vice-President, Elizo Serrano, took the Chair.]] With regard to the railway network, it is essential to increase the percentage of goods transported by that means, as well as much more consistent support for the networks of proximity and half-distance. Fires in the Amazon have visibly exposed the relationship between the agricultural and livestock sectors and climate change, but policies in this regard are hardly being developed. For example, our country is the world's fourth largest exporter of pork and we are the second largest consumer of meat per person in Europe. This is also an issue affecting climate change, so we propose to include emission reduction targets in this sector as well. Finally, a proposal that we share because we have already discussed in this House in the previous legislature: a law for the disposal of single-use plastics, of disposable and disposable products, which in some way makes the consumer society visible and also the impact that this society is having on our ecosystems. In short, Minister, I agree with you that it is necessary to go far beyond the mere statement. I believe that the climate emergency declaration is necessary, I hope that next week will be adopted in this Congress and that it will be unanimously to establish a consensus framework that will facilitate future action in the fight against climate change. Let me finish with a paragraph of an Ecologists in Action text referring to your meeting: A 360° turn is the one that leaves you in the starting position, where nothing changes despite the paraphernalia it entails. And making a play of words with the 370 measures that you proposed, they say: A 370° turn is a real turn of 10°. We can say with satisfaction that the PSOE has remained there with its 370 proposals, in a slight and insufficient change, something that does nothing but postpone the true ecological transition, the one that will arrive yes or yes, but that will be more conducive and fairer as soon as it begins. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u231	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. To conclude the debate, I have the floor of the Minister for the Ecological Transition in office.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Listening to him, I realize the extent to which there is room for a common and shared government programme and the extent to which one can be optimistic, thinking that this kind of approach is certain that, with nuances of many colors present in the room, it can lead to very important and very constructive debates and, therefore, to very constructive and very important real action in this field. The only thing I would tell you is that it's very good for communication purposes to play with slogans, but it's not enough. It is not a matter of playing with oligopoly, which has dictated nothing to me, but of transforming the energy system, and this has much to do with what we have already done, with what is pending and with proposals such as those you have indicated. It is relevant and good to think that the Congress of Deputies can declare the climate emergency because it will facilitate the action of the Government and that the depth of the measures to be taken is known and understood from the very beginning. We need to facilitate a transformation of the Spanish economy, which goes in line with most of the issues you have pointed out and beyond. Not only do we need to think about and materialize these well-located goals over time and to ensure that they can be met as an obligation to achieve results by 2050, but we also need to work on this sustainable housing programme, of different industry, containing the loss of biodiversity, facilitating nature as a resource to build resilience to the impacts of climate change or even as a CO2 catcher, provided that full respect is guaranteed for the way ecosystems function naturally. As far as transport is concerned, not only road transport, but also maritime and air transport are an important part of this response, as well as industry. Little is worth it - it is important, but insufficient - to think that we turn brown electrons into green electrons if this is not accompanied by a whole package that allows us to ensure that all this new industry associated with that transformation - in the same way as it happens with vehicles and with the means of transport, the transport industry and the services of mobility - operates in the same direction. That is why we have tried to focus the debate on government policy action in a cross-cutting way in the fight against climate change, thinking not only about action on energy or mobility, but also, of course, on biodiversity, the protection of nature and the oceans, encouraging an advanced transposition - indeed, very advanced and waiting to be able to present it and discuss it in this House with a fully functioning government - of a new context of waste and disposal of single-use plastics, and so on. Presenting a climate change and energy transition law to the House as soon as possible is an elementary first step. We need a stable legal framework that provides the right economic and regulatory signals, to work on a just transition, already forgetting the demagogy of false promises and, depending on where I am touched, closer or further away, to say one thing or another, because we also have many examples of that. I know that each political group has its territorial sensitivity, but so does its own. We must take the necessary measures for climate neutrality and an electricity system, as you say, 100 percent renewable by 2050. This means maximising energy efficiency not only in housing, in built-up parks, but also in industry, in consumption for mobility, etc., achieving that efficiency, electrification and renewable energy are the first package that will allow us to advance a long way a journey that will undoubtedly still need answers that we do not know at the moment. We do not escape the need to accompany affected workers and territories. That is why this social package that requires a response, committed budgets optimising the opportunities for creating economic activity and employment are irrevocable. Do not grant new exploration permits, hydrocarbon research permits, once the law comes into force, facilitating the signal that hydrocarbons will increasingly be absent from our energy system and that, therefore, it makes little sense to invest money where there is little travel. Develop a timetable to disengage from signals that may disorient investors. Facilitate the strengthening of the transparency of the financial sector, preventing them from being trapped and devoting resources to what is needed, or allowing municipalities to play a much more active role both in the compulsory implementation of low-emissions or zero-emissions zones and in the work on the issues of proximity feeding - to which you referred - or in the valorization of their task as custodian of the territory in rural areas, or an agrarian policy that truly allows reconciliation of rural development for people and for the benefit of the environment and the surrounding territory. These and many other things should be followed by an independent climate change committee, which evaluates and makes recommendations that will allow us all to continue learning in this direction. But, as I was saying, perhaps the most important message is that this proposal, these axes that you point out as lines of work to explore, to work for the whole House, are extremely convincing and close to what has been our trajectory at this time and to the program known to academics, environmental and social activists and other public institutions in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group, on the evolution of public accounts and its impact on the well-being of Spain. [[File number 172/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u233	Thereafter, the People's Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the evolution of public accounts and its impact on the well-being of the Spaniards. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u234	Madam President, Minister, Members of Parliament, very good afternoon. I believe that today we can do, Minister, a pedagogical exercise, that we are going to scare the substantial scream. A lot of things have been heard today, haven't you, minister? Too much noise, false data, misleading information. And since we're talking about accounts, let's talk about stories too. You know a very famous Charles Dickens tale: Christmas tale. In that story there were three spirits: the spirit of the past, the spirit of the present and the spirit of the future. Let's talk about the ghost of the past and the ghost of the future because I think it's important to know what's happened, what's going on and what can happen in the future. In 1996 there was a deficit in Spain of 5.3%; a really alarming situation, in a brutal process of economic slowdown, with scarcity, with needs on the part of the population. It is true that it was a People's Party government - because there are truths that are indisputable, no matter how much everyone wants to exercise historical revisionism, and today we have seen some examples in this House - that managed to resume the path of stability. In 2000 we prepared the first Budget Stability Act. In 2001, the two laws, organic law and ordinary law, were passed and passed. In 2004 we lost power legitimately, in elections. In 2008, something happened that I will then count in my reply, because I believe that it is the key to understanding part of the political and economic situation in this country and that it should not be repeated in the future. And in 2007 Spain entered one of the deepest crises, from the factual, economic and financial point of view, of the last century, discounting the war conflict, discounting the civil war. In 2009 Spain reached a public deficit of 11.02 %; in 2010 Spain reached a deficit of 9.3%, and more or less the same percentage was repeated the following year. With regard to the Government's deficit forecasts, do you know how many points there were deviations? Fifteen points of deviation, EUR 150 billion of deviation from the objectives set by the Socialist Government. At that time - and we will see it later - there was an almost heretical conversion of the Socialist Party to budgetary stability. Welcome to budgetary stability! I would like to ask you right now what position you are in, because I am going to say one thing, Mrs Montero, to you every ten years you have to pass the revalidation of budgetary stability. In 2001 they were against the Budget Stability Act: it was the new administrative harmonization, we came to submit with a kind of financial rope to the autonomous communities and local entities, it was a process of neoharmonization. In 2011 you - with us - voted for the reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution and turned religiously to budgetary stability, and ten years later, Mrs Montero, are you still in favour of budgetary stability? [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you an answer, because the facts are going to lead me to some reflection. Those are the ghosts of the past, but let's go to the ghost of the present. Mrs Montero, you live immersed in a quadruple paradox, and in addition some of those paradoxes do not come directly from you, I recognize you, are exogenous, do not come from your own development of political talent; they are exogenous to you and therefore you are not responsible for them. Firstly, you are subject to the paradox of the improper budget, because the budget you are managing is not your budget. Look, if I had to put a title to this movie, it would be a mix between The heiress and Rebecca. You are the heiress of Montoro's budget, and Rebecca because everything must remember Montoro. Moreover, even the high offices of the Ministry of Finance must remind Montoro because, of course, you kept them virtually all; those who do the papers to him, by the way. That's the reality. It's absolutely nothing, but it is. What's going on? That you did not agree with the large amounts of that budget; and of course, it is legitimate and absolutely complete, from the point of view of an intellectual approach, Mrs Montero, and in that I will agree with you: we cannot agree. I agree with the disagreement. Now, I do ask you one thing: that every time you run a budget programme for Mr Montoro, you thank us, and that when you get a press release saying that you have done something that you say. [[Applauds]] Because, look, there is not Minister Ábalos, but Mr Ábalos is giving us a real deal on what good government is. First, the AVE to Socialist Granada managed to execute it in a year, the same year you can't exhume a corpse. It is easier to take the AVE to Granada in a year than to exhume a corpse; perhaps because a political corpse cannot exhume a corpse. Of course, they will do good to Vizcay Casas with that which he rose in the third year. They're gonna get you to be resurrected in the third year. How can you say that? But, of course, it is that Mr Simancas came to say - and he said it here and he had the timely reply from our spokesman - that Maritime Rescue was socialist too. Hey, but if the Maritime Rescue function exists since the late 19th century! By the way, the first regime that published - I say this to be careful with what they say looking for proximity lines - the Maritime Rescue in Spain was precisely the Franco regime. [[Applauds]] By the way, you have many budgetary similarities with Franco, because all against the budget!, all against the budget! And there we do have a problem; of course, it is the only one; for ideological reasons, Mrs Montero, it is so, unfortunately. We could continue with the theory of good management: if there is a problem, we delegate it to the autonomous communities and if there is a problem, it came from before. You should be reminded, as far as public administration is concerned, that there have also been demonstrations by taxi drivers in the Franco regime. Look, they put the hats on La Cibeles. But, of course, as the problems come from behind, now it turns out that it's not my problem, it's someone else's problem. But I keep going. In addition to that, it has another paradox, which is the paradox of the extended budget. It is true, Minister, and here I have to give you all the reason, that you tried to approve a spending ceiling. You came immediately, on 20 July last year, to present the agreement that had been authorized in the Council of Ministers, which was disallowed in the Congress of Deputies. They tried again, following the last meeting of the Fiscal and Telematic Finance Policy Council in August last year. A year later nobody knows anything, the autonomous communities are not aware of what is happening, but on December 20 there was again an attempt to approve the path of stability, with the corresponding breakdown of the objectives of stability of each of the sectors of the State. He didn't get it; he didn't get it, but it must be recognized that he tried, and as he tried, very well. I have a political problem and it is that I often recognize what others do, just as I would like them to recognize me what we do. But what's going on? That's why I was asking you if you believe in budgetary stability. That comes the year 2019. Look, Mrs Montero, you have carried out all the budgetary discipline that this country has achieved in twenty years, and I will tell you why, yes, I will tell you why. Every year we have to approve a spending ceiling. What did you do? In 2019 they have not approved any spending ceiling. For what? Do you remember what he said about keeping an eye on Fridays? Is there going to be good news? We thought the One, two, three was coming back, but it wasn't the One, two, three - I say it from the accounts - no, it was the decrees-social laws. And why didn't he bring a spending roof? His obligation was to bring a spending ceiling. By passing these decree-laws you have blown up the spending ceiling and budgetary discipline that has existed in Spain for twenty years. [[Applauds]] Twenty years! This country no longer has a budget; the budget floats. It was, Minister. He will not deny me, since we are permanently denying the reality, that those decree-laws existed. By the way, you knew that there were decree-laws, therefore, if I know that I am going to enter a functioning government regime, what I traditionally do, if I am a good public manager, is to ask in each of my areas what problems a functioning government with an extended budget can have in order to be able to use public resources. First question, Minister: Before general elections were called in this country, did you or someone on your team consult with the State's Attorney, or anyone else, to inform you whether it was possible to release the updates of the deliveries to the autonomous communities? Did you get in touch, even if you were verbally, minister? Of course there are verbal consultations! We do not have to be told by the lawyer of the VOX state, we already know that there are verbal consultations, but, minister, in the Ministry of Finance - you know very well that I have shared for a few years a lot of work in that ministry - to mobilize 7 billion euros what is asked is always a report, but a written report. Because the unwritten reports, Minister, the reports that you call unwritten reports, do not exist in Spain since the 1980s of the twentieth century, precisely to end the uncertainty that generated these kinds of situations. A technified and professionalized ministry, such as the Ministry of Finance, if it has to mobilize 7 billion, and before a government in office, necessarily requests a report, even if only, minister, to cover its responsibility in case they tell it that these funds cannot be released. It's almost a matter of public subsistence, it's almost anthropologically instinctive. They didn't, or we don't know if they did, minister. You'll probably be able to answer this in a moment. This is the reality. Then came the story of the famous report. The famous report is for a novel by Eduardo Mendoza: The story of the haunted report. [[Laughter]] On the one hand, the report first existed; then it did not exist; then it was an oral consultation; then, when we are aware here that the report does not exist and while we are holding a press conference, your communication office sends a message to all the media in this Parliament saying that they do not worry, that the report does not exist, but is requested and will have it at the time it is issued. By the way, he used the expression "verbal report". Let them strive a little to write correctly and that they apply in modern public law. But you know what happened? That while you were saying that at four and a half in the afternoon, that report had it in a national newspaper, because that national newspaper's rotation closed at nine in the evening, and we find the report in the newspapers the next day. An exercise of true transparency, isn't it, Minister? Explain to me how you tell others you don't have it and then a newspaper does. What is this, the information dispersion? Is this transparency, according to the new government? Isn't that right, Minister? Wasn't it? [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] It wasn't like that. I say this for the journalists who are here: they all witnessed what happened that day. That's right. And now it turns out that the report has leaked, it's fragmented, and so on. It has a curious content, if it is the report to which we have had access through different flows. Yesterday we learned that the report was formally issued. I still don't have it, Minister; my group hasn't received it yet. I imagine they will send it to us - I will finish immediately, Madam President - because it is important to have that report logically. I'm going to end a data. This is the story of a strange story, a story that at least demonstrates a certain administrative imperience. I'm not going into anything else, I'm not going into anything else; I leave it in imperience. It's not a big noun; really, don't worry, minister, we won't get into other grades. But I will tell you one thing: yesterday we were aware of the situation of the budgetary stability objective on 30 June this year, and you know that we are already in a 2.1% deficit. Is that not true either? It's your press release yesterday: 2.1%. Do you know what the goal of stability was for 2019? According to what was approved here, 1.3; according to what you said, 1.8; then you started talking about 2. If it is 2 in June we are already above the objective of stability and, as we would continue with this type of application, we would multiply by two and we would end up by 4%. Madam Minister, you are Minister of Finance, you know from yesterday that the deficit is clear: 2.1%. If it's already above the target! Isn't it unlocked? [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] It's not open. In June, it is already above the target, but it is not unobstructed. Minister, what steps are you going to take to prevent precisely that deficit...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u235	Mr. Garcés, you've already exceeded yourself.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u236	...can it be cured in the next few months? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u237	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u238	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Garcés, first of all, I want to tell you that this is the first time we've spoken. I think he is the spokesman for the Committee on Finance - I understand that - and I therefore hope to have an opportunity in the future, if the investiture succeeds in opening up the way, to keep talking. I have to say that even now, after the years I have been in politics, I am an extraordinarily naive person. [[Several Members: Yes yes...!]] Mr Garcés has come up to the rostrum and said that he wanted to speak seriously about the evolution of public accounts, and I believed him, until I heard you say the fourth word; from that moment on I already know that you were talking about your book, trying to tell what I wanted to tell, but above all I was trying to wear down the Government of Spain. Blessed naivety that makes one trust always that the political adversary wants to really talk about arguments, concrete facts and issues that can enrich the constructive debate. Mr Garcés, I think it is very important to recognise that the economic policies that you and the Socialist Party are pursuing do not look alike; there are elements in which both political formations differ, and one of them is just how you understand the economy, how you understand that it has to be at the service of citizens or not, and how you apply the control of public expenditure, of the public deficit when you govern. I have said this sincerely when I had previous responsibilities and you were ruling and I say this now: I believe that you have come today to repeat those expired recipes of neoliberalism that we have all learned, that after the crisis of 2008 caused a slowdown in the economic recovery of this country at the cost of suffering and a very important effort for all citizens, with a weight of the state in the intervention of the economy that you always consider to be excessive; you always think that the economy has to go to its free will according to private interests or the play of forces between the different private actors. And we, as political formation, believe that a sustainable economic recovery is perfectly compatible in the time allowed for the recovery of rights for citizens; moreover, we consider that at certain times in the economic cycle countercyclical policies are an element of stimulus. This is also what we are defending in Europe, where you know that right now some countries are signaling that they can enter into recession; in particular, Germany is implementing an important countercyclical policy that will allow for greater public investment to try to bring the economy back on track. That recipe you've never wanted. It is not just ideologies, because precisely those who govern in some of these countries are not precisely socialist, but that you have an economic vision and orientation, which I respect, but, as I say to you, I do not share at all, fundamentally because they harm the well-being of citizens and cause their pockets to be the ones who resent the situation they never provoke. On the other hand, it has moved me a number of issues that have not so much to do with the evolution of public accounts. I am going to try to address those which seem to me to be fundamental and which have as their starting point that the Socialists - he wanted to show - do not or do not usually meet the objectives of stability. I don't know if you and I have agreed on autonomous responsibilities in our period. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: No]] No, you were previously, indeed. What I'm saying is that I've always met the stability goals, I don't know what you were doing, I haven't had the interest to look at your management data. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: Yes]] You say yes, I haven't looked at it, I believe you, I don't doubt it, but don't doubt that I was doing it, because I was doing it. I could ask Mr Montoro - who is not here - because he has always publicly acknowledged that the Autonomous Community of Andalusia met the objectives of stability and that this was very important for the country because of the volume that Andalusia represented in all the public administrations. [[applause]] [[The lady]] Secondly, Your Honor, it seems to me that you have asked me a question as if there were any doubts about the answer. Are you committed to stability? Absolutely. Now, we don't recite it as a creed, as it looks like you wanted me to recite it. No, everyone has their creed, usually religious. Of course we are committed to stability. I ask you: do you doubt it? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: Yes]] Yeah. Well, look, I'm going to tell you one thing about the recent People's Party governments, that is, since Mr Rajoy ruled, because I'm not going to go back to the time when countries probably didn't have control over the deficit target, the debt target, the rules on spending so comprehensive, because you know that these mechanisms are basically activated in Europe after the economic recession, after the crisis, from 2008 or even later, from 2010. This is the series that can be identified by comprehensive data transmission and data control. Mr Garcés, Mr Rajoy, in this case Mr Montoro, never met the objective of stability assigned by the Government of Spain; never, and the few times that the Kingdom of Spain has met - I see that some of his colleagues get euphoric, I don't know why - has been thanks to autonomous communities and municipalities. [[applause]] On this I do not ask you for an act of faith; you just have to review the previous statistics and you will see clearly that the Government of Spain never met the objective of stability and when we did it as a country it was thanks to autonomous communities and municipalities. I think that is very important because you always want to give the false appearance that you are the champions of economic management, when the data never sympathize with that statement. That is why it seems to me essential to remember that. Another thing you said is that we have to work with Mr Montoro's budget - let's see, what remedy is left! Of course, I have to work with the budget Mr Montoro because I brought a budget to this House. Look, I brought a budget to this House even without having made sure that the budget went ahead, which you never do. You never bring a budget or you never present yourself to an investiture if you are not sure - let's put it this way - that this initiative is going to come forward. This government fulfilled its obligation, brought a budget, but here you voted with the independenceists to bring down the budget. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I had to stay with Mr Montoro's budget. That element is also important to move. Of course, with the adaptations that any extension has to provoke. Furthermore, Mr Garcés, you will remember - because I think you had institutional responsibilities - that Mr Montoro's budget was not approved until June, that is, it was approved six months later than when it was to be approved. In fact, the budget has been in place for almost a year. They therefore oblige us to have an unwanted budget extension, and that is the contrast between their budget and our budget, because, of course, because we do not have a budget, we are obliged to work with that extension with many difficulties. Also, you were asking me exactly about the deliveries on account. Mr Garcés, this government has maintained exactly the same criteria as the People's Party, there has been no change in criteria. I can feel alluded to by the controversy that the People's Party is trying to generate if this government had changed the view, if the State Advocate had changed the view, but it has not changed it, is that Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy were saying it... do you say no? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] I refer you to the hemerotheques because I was then, you weren't, but I was. In 2016 - I think you were no longer there - Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy, who had extended budgets and a government in office, could not carry out the update of the deficit target, which did not take place until December 15 of that year, and there were fifteen days for the autonomous communities to generate credit and to pay - in this case because the money was spent, as now - to their suppliers. The same approach was therefore maintained. You have witnessed in this House that Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy were saying, when the Socialist Party was asking about the updating of the deliveries to account, that those deliveries to account could not be updated in budgetary extension or with a government in office. I spoke to Mr. Montoro, with whom I had a fluid relationship, and he explained the reasons. Were there legal reports? No, but Mr. Montoro had spoken to the state's attorney. You know - especially you, who have had government responsibilities - that when you work with the State Attorney's Office you work for consultation and, of course, make verbal reports and there are times when reports are requested in writing. There is the double modality, and if you have state lawyers within your group, you can ask them why it is the usual job, without trap or cardboard. You say: they said they had the report and they didn't have it. No, if the mess has been done to you, if I have not spoken; the mess has been done to you when Mrs Alvarez de Toledo said that the report did not exist, that the report was a lie, that it did not exist. I think he asked for it through transparency, and I don't know whether it has arrived or not, but it will, of course, happen to him as it can't be otherwise. I have not been aware of whether or not they have received the report, but if they have not received it, they will receive it because there is no problem. But there has been no controversy, Mr. Garcés. In fact, if you read the State Counsel's report, it says: As you have repeatedly moved to that ministry, it is not possible... It says so, because on repeated occasions the State lawyer says yes, no, whether it can or cannot be, and it does not always put itself in writing, unless you want to mount the file, and if so, for it to be part of the file it is put in writing. You have your way of working but, as you will understand, not all managers work equally and you will not be able to deny me, if you have been institutionally responsible, that the State Advocate is asked for verbal reports or written reports. Another thing I wanted to say to you, Mr Garcés - although I will then expand it in my second intervention - is that the autonomous communities, with the non-update of the deliveries on account -45 billion - do not have a budgetary problem but a problem of liquidity of treasury. You tell me now that you are, but they have also said that you are going to have to make cuts. No, the autonomous communities have incorporated in their budget the update of the deliveries on account and the ministry has never asked them to rectify it. I do not know what you would do if you were in the government, but we have never asked you to rectify it and the amount of 4 billion is equivalent to around fifteen days of treasury.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u239	Minister, I'd have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u240	I'm done. Keep in mind that every month there are 8 billion in the transfer of the twelfth part to the autonomous communities and 4.5 billion are equivalent to around fifteen days of liquidity. What does this mean? That the high moment, the acute moment will come the closer we get to the month of December. Therefore, this ministry is working tirelessly to try to find a solution, within the legal framework, that will allow the autonomous communities to keep their deliveries up to date before these dates come closer. But I also say what Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy were saying from this rostrum - and I finish with this - the best way to update the deliveries to account is for government, and for that you have it very easy; as Mr Hernando said: patriotic abstention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u242	Thank you, President. Minister, I'm sorry, but you're denying the reality. You have repeatedly made bilateral and media statements this year by appealing or invoking an apparent consultation and an apparent report, it is so, Madam Minister. We have the testimonies, it's in the press, it exists. That's right. With regard to patriotic abstention, I shall set an example. You and I are from the same generation; we could have shared even schoolyard. Imagine that I have my ball and I throw it away and you suddenly stop it, take it and tell me: I only give you back your ball if you make me a class delegate. That's called blackmail. That's called blackmail! [[Applauds]] You give me the ball and you, if you want to be a delegate, you're looking for other support, because it's my ball. That should never be allowed in politics. The truth is that one can deny reality, one can obviously turn this into a paradise of occurrences, but affirm that you are the champions of stability and that you are also the champions of job creation and economic growth, it seems to me that there is no Spanish in your healthy judgment that can believe it! If I've reminded you of the data, Minister! If in 2009 they had a deficit of 11.1%, of 11.1%, minister! Can you tell me what you think of the AiRef report where when you came to present your non-state budget project you had an estimated income of $5.3 billion and told them that you had calculated them anyway and that they could only reach $3.3 billion? Can you tell me, because you will have access to this and if not to be told by your advisers, what does the European Council report of July this year say when it states that they will not achieve the objective of budgetary stability, which had been recommended to them that nominal growth in public expenditure should be adjusted, only below 0.6 %? And they're not gonna do it. How will they comply if they have passed decrees-laws! You had to have approved the spending ceiling. Twenty years of budgetary discipline and you come, do not approve the spending ceiling but approve decree-laws that recognize subjective rights of economic content of a structural nature. Do you know what a spending roof was for? Precisely to avoid this discussion, to set a financial spending restriction and below that we would decide the allocation of resources. That is why this debate was so important in this House, because we wanted to set the spending ceiling, because we wanted to know how important public expenditure was. And I'll tell you one thing, Minister, do you know why you don't believe in budgetary stability? First, because it has given, as I say, a boost to all fiscal orthodoxy through the approval of decree-laws and has not approved the spending ceiling. Minister, you cannot approve a new expenditure if there is no previously approved expenditure ceiling. You have failed to comply with the Budget Stability Act because there were elections; in the elections everything is allowed! But let's keep going. By the way, the Socialist Parliamentary Group seems to be playing Pasapalabra, inventing words that start by sorting: triumvirato trifachito... Come on, a grace, ja, ja, ja! You guys are a crusher. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] A crusher of public spending and fiscal discipline. I'll tell you why. [[Show a document]] You know this document, don't you? Minister, 370 proposals. You didn't make the economic memory of this document, did you? Do you know how much additional public spending this document entails? Almost 40 billion euros a year! 40 billion euros a year! Before you give your opinion, add up; I would challenge you to add up. [[Several Members: Come on now!-Rumors]] 40 billion euros a year! By the way minister, was your idea within that trio - which also starts with you, erre, i - negotiator that there would be a public office under the Ministry of Finance dedicated to controlling compliance with the pact between two political organizations? Is that lawful, devoting public funds to controlling a private political pact? Tell me, Minister, I have an interest in meeting you, there is no longer the Minister of Justice. That is called a crime; devoting public funds to the control of a private political pact has a name and that is a criminal offence. [[Applauds]] Let them tell you what they have to say, but after they have told you, you have repeated it again. They control their political pacts or their non-political pacts in the corresponding representative bodies but obviously not with public funds. Look, this was the ghost of the future, to adopt a budget in which there were a number of pacts with financial commitments that, honourable Members, amounted to 35 000 or 40 billion a year. I'm not just saying, am I? Any scientist and the academy that has done analysis of the document has said so. But look, I'm gonna show you a graph or, rather, something very graphic, which is this. [[Show a picture of Don Manuel Pizarro Moreno and Don Pedro Solbes See]] Do you remember? You remember this, don't you? Do you remember the year 2008? Do you remember? This debate marked history. You divided Spain into two. Here are the two Spains: Spain that he saw and Spain that he did not see; Spain that he believed and Spain that he did not believe; Spain that advanced that came the worst economic crisis of the last hundred years and Spain that denied it. Here are the two Spains. By the way, I will tell you that it had many political effects later, because the worst recognizable economic crisis came and there was born Podemos. I too would have been born, if I were from the left, I would also have gone towards a movement that was revolting against the orthodoxy of an outdated socialism. And that stirred the sense of guilt of Catalan nationalism because they thought Spain was stealing from us. They weren't stealing from us, it was an economic crisis. And there, we, as responsible government, make the decisions, not austereicides, minister...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u243	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u244	I'm done. Because I would like to remind you that the Rajoy government's budget for the years we have been governing an increase of 24 billion in social spending. Twenty-four billion in social spending!, you can tell them. [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] Yes, Minister, it is, too. Look, part of the problem we have is because we had to make decisions that were harmful, that were hard. Yes, minister, you fatten the problem, we solve it and then you fatten again politically. It's the theory of eternal return. You read it, we solve it, and you...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u245	Mr. Garcés, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u246	I'm done. ...and you're constantly getting fat. I do not know if you are naive, Minister; I think you have absolutely nothing naive, neither do I, Minister. We would get along very well because I can assure you that we are not both naive but, please, we are in a deficit of 2.1%. What decisions will the government make? And tell me for real whether you consider that a public office can control a private political pact between two political forces. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government in office, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u248	Mr. Garcés, I will try to answer some of the questions you have commented on. [[Rumors]] Come on, don't be in such a hurry, I'm coming. You say that you had made good management during - I think I understood you - Mr Rajoy's term of office. Look, I'm just gonna give you some data. The debt, the debt inherited by Mr Rajoy was 40.3 % when it came to power in December 2011 when Mr Rajoy began his term and left it at 58.3 % of GDP. You increased this country's debt to almost 101.1% of GDP and it was Mr Rajoy's government. [[Applauds]] Therefore, they never left the excessive deficit procedure, it was with Mr Sánchez's Government that this country left the excessive deficit procedure, last year with the autonomous communities, municipalities and the State - the role of the rest of the administrations must always be recognised. According to the European Commission, the deficit was going to go to 2.7% when you presented a budget here; by the way, a budget - which according to the orthodoxy you want to show - that I would like you to look at, because it had no fees, because it had revenues that did not exist. When you want to teach it to you, if you understand budgeting - I think so - I teach it to you for you to see. Therefore, the miraculous management, the economic miracle of the People's Party that you have wanted to do here is a lie, as has been shown well during the budget debate and as has been shown now. You tell me: Why don't you bring the spending ceiling here? Because I'm on duty and I can't. The expenditure ceiling cannot be brought as long as the Government is in office. I'll tell you more, Mr. Garcés, in case you haven't read it, read it... [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]] It's just that if you start talking while I'm talking, I can't follow my thread. If you read the Government Act and what are the powers of a functioning Government, you will see that the entire process of preparing the preliminary draft budgets is expressly prohibited. So don't tell me why I didn't bring the spending ceiling because my pretension was to bring the spending ceiling, but I'm on duty. Therefore, I did not bring it, nor did Mr Montoro bring it, nor did Mr Rajoy bring it because we are impossible by law. [[Applauds]] Patriotic abstention, patriotic abstention. [[Applauds]] That's the only reason you can't bring the spending ceiling. I am not surprised that other political parties, Mr Garcés, say this; that a party that has had government experience does not cease to surprise me. Either you, this new PP, have been forgotten everything that the PP has learned during all these years of democracy - which may be, perhaps regeneration has been that, in which you forget everything you could have learned in these years of democracy - or you fool us, because you know it. You know why you've ruled that you can't bring the spending ceiling while there's a government in office, and you know it, because you didn't bring it. No action was taken in 2016 until December, when Mr Rajoy was already invested by the Socialist Party's abstention, which I will remind him of whenever I can. [[Applauds]] Second, the decree-laws did not bring them into operation by this Government, which is another inaccuracy. The decrees-laws were approved with the Government at full performance, they were not approved with the Government in office. And you know what's going on, Mr. Garcés? That all the draft decree-laws that were brought in had their correlation in income. I tell you more, they were all social security benefits, and Social Security was increased by decree-law the maximum contributions. Thus, at this time Social Security has a higher increase in contributions than the expenditure incurred in updating pensions, benefit to over 52 years of age, child support or maternity and paternity leave. This government is responsible, it would never pass a spending decree-law if it did not have its revenue correlation. But you should know that; some other member of your party for their formation does not, but you know that Social Security revenues feed on the contributions and those decree-laws had the contributions and, therefore, far from making a hole in Social Security is assuming some relief for the accounts of this agency. It is compatible to recover rights if they are accompanied by income measures that allow us to harmonise them. Third question, non-compliance, no, Mr. Garzón. If you say here that I have failed any law, you have to take me to court.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u249	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u250	I'm finishing up. I have never failed to comply with a law, that is, if you believe that this government deviates from the law, you will have to act accordingly, as we always do anyone who sees such situations. In relation to the deficit - because you also wanted to say that the accounts are open -, with this government Spain has emerged from the excessive deficit procedure, and if you have followed the deficit.. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín pronounces words that are not perceived]] If I'm going to tell you, Mr. Garcés! If you have followed the deficit over these years, you will know that the deficit data coming out monthly are not the definitive data. You know why? Do you know that you are missing in your analysis? Have you counted on the local corporation surplus? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]] Of course you haven't. So you say: The state is at this point at 2.1% deficit. Lie! It is uncertain!, is that it has not made the effect of what the surplus of the municipalities supposes and, therefore, is not a data that you can elevate to the category of definitive data. Moreover, this government has reduced the deficit target by 20.9% over the previous year in the General State Administration. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Garcés, we're going to fulfill...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u251	Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u252	The last thing, Madam President. We are going to meet, we are going to meet 2% of the deficit target, as the AIReF - which seems to be not interested in you now - said a few days ago in its last report. We will fulfil and we will also ensure that the autonomous communities and local corporations are fulfilled, because the Government's obligation is not only to fulfil it but also to involve the whole of the administrations. So, Mr Garcés, I believe that there are few lessons from the People's Party in terms of deficits, rights recovery or budgets. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-11-CD190911.u253	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting rose. It was four and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
