ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of real decree-laws, and in particular with the Royal Decree-law 21/2018, of 14 December, of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I present to this House - to submit it to its validation - the Royal Decree-Law 21/2018, of urgent measures in the field of housing and rent, after its approval by the Council of Ministers on 14 December. By means of this royal decree-law the Government adopts the first necessary reforms to begin what will be - or should be - a fundamental turning point in housing policy. We will therefore give a first answer to the most urgent questions arising from the lack of a housing policy in recent years, where housing aid and funds have been reduced. There was a deregulation of the market that led to the unprotected tenant, the successive privatization of the stock of public housing, so that only 2.5% of the park in our country is social housing, and in addition there was a legislative inaction and the hindering of initiatives in the autonomic field. The rent reform promoted and undertaken by the previous Government in 2013 in practice did not substantially increase the supply, since the same trend was practically maintained; price increases were very important, especially since 2014 and in urban and tourist areas, and the evictions - especially since 2016 - coincided with the end of the first contracts resulting from the 2013 law and the three-year deadlines. As we see in the 2013 reform, it was far from leaving positive effects on the housing and rental market. It is essential to recognize the current situation in which Spanish families who live for rent find themselves, which needs public action, immediate and urgent, as these data support - for example -. On the one hand, 43% of Spanish families living on market rent suffer financial overexposure to housing costs, according to Eurostat, being the highest figure in the countries in our environment. On the other hand, the increase in eviction procedures resulting from rental contracts. The latest known data from 2018 confirm the trend already pointed out in the previous year, which is that of a considerable increase, 7.9% compared to the previous year. If we add to this data that of the very scarce public park of social housing in Spain, we are faced with a situation that needs immediate intervention. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u4	As a result, the Government has committed itself from the outset to a new housing policy that, in addition to the content of the royal decree-law that I will develop, includes such important measures as the drafting of a state housing law that prevents vulture funds from staying with social housing, increasing supply with a specific plan for 20,000 housing units for social and affordable rent, the use of all available public land, the introduction of improvements in the housing plan or the mobilization of resources together with the private sector. In view of the above, and as a result of intensive work, the Council of Ministers of 14 December approved this first package of urgent measures in the field of housing and rental, with the following objective: to find a balance between fundamental variables; to provide the tenants and tenants with a situation of balance of forces between the two parties; to provide sufficient legal security to the market and to create the conditions necessary to increase the existence of a larger rental housing stock, without forgetting that, according to the Spanish Constitution and the United Nations, housing cannot be considered merely an investment property, but rather a right to be protected by the public authorities. This is a key, essential right that makes the enjoyment of other rights a reality, since without the security of a home a family can hardly build a life project. The United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights noted this in its concluding observations to the sixth report on Spain in March 2018, in which it expressed its concern and made a number of recommendations to the Spanish State on the right to adequate housing and evictions, which are duly addressed in the measures provided for in this Royal Decree-Law. But, as I have pointed out, I would like to reiterate that the shift in housing policy being carried out by this Government is only beginning with this royal decree-law, which is limited as it cannot otherwise be to the most urgent and immediate implementation issues. This Government continues to work through other policy and management instruments to give effect to the constitutional right to decent and adequate housing. Having said that, I shall now go on to describe in more detail the content of the royal decree-law whose validation we are debating today in this House. It is structured into four titles and consists of five articles, one additional provision, two transitional provisions and three final provisions. Title I introduces the necessary reform of the regulation of housing leases through various amendments to the Urban Leases Act, including the extension of the mandatory extension periods and the tacit extension of housing leases. The deadlines set prior to the 2013 liberalisation reform are recovered. In this way, the mandatory extension period is set at five years, except where the lessor is a legal person, if a period of seven years is set. It thus responds to the differences that, from the point of view of tax treatment as well as of the reality and characteristics of the lease relationship and of the development of the activity, can exist in practice. [[Rumors]] As for the tacit extension it is stipulated that, the date of expiration of the contract or of any of its extensions, and after the mandatory extension period, if there is no communication... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u5	Quiet, please. Quiet. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u6	... if there is no communication from any of the parties establishing the will not to renew the contract, the contract will be extended for three years, giving the tenant greater stability, as it is no longer subject to the annual extension established in 2013. In addition, amendments are made which affect the time when leases are signed. On the one hand, the maximum amount of additional security that may be required from the lessee, whether through deposit or bank guarantee, and except for long-term contracts, is fixed at two monthly income. On the other hand, it is stipulated by law that the costs of real estate management and the formalization of the contract shall be borne by the lessor when he is a legal person, except for those services which have been contracted on the direct initiative of the lessee. In any case, the problem of renting also leads to the insufficient supply of rented housing in our country, due to a number of practical obstacles that hinder the reaction from offering to price signals, preventing the market from functioning properly. In the specific area of social or affordable rental, the number of dwellings remains insufficient, partly due to the limited use of public-private mechanisms that allow maximum impact on the rental market within existing budgetary constraints. Therefore the balanced solution to the problem of rent is only possible if the greater protection of the tenant is combined with strong measures on the supply side. For this reason, the single additional provision includes a mandate to the Ministry of Development to ensure that the supply of rented housing in Spain is boosted. To this end, the Ministry is entrusted with a set of actions to be carried out, including negotiations with the competent sectoral administrations, using all the instruments at their disposal for this purpose. Title I also contains a technical clarification regarding the exclusion from the scope of the Urban Leasing Act of the temporary assignment of the use involved in the activity of so-called tourist dwellings, removing the limitation that these must necessarily be marketed through tourist channels, and referring specifically to the provisions of the tourism sector regulations that are applicable. Title II introduces amendments to the horizontal ownership regime in order to promote the implementation of accessibility improvement works. Firstly, up to 10 per cent of the last regular budget is increased the amount of the reserve fund of the communities of owners, and the possibility is established that such resources will be used to carry out the compulsory accessibility works provided for in Article 10 of the Horizontal Property Act. Secondly, the obligation to carry out such accessibility works extends to those cases where public aid to which the community of neighbours may have access reaches 75 % of the amount of such aid. In the field of tourist accommodation, Title II also contains a reform of the horizontal ownership system which clarifies the qualified majority required - three fifths - for the communities of owners to limit or condition the exercise of the activity or to establish special quotas or increase in the share of common housing costs, within the framework of the sectoral rules governing the exercise of this activity and the regime of uses established by the instruments of urban and territorial management. Title III, for its part, incorporates an amendment to the housing eviction procedure where it affects vulnerable households, establishing that the determination of the situation of vulnerability will result in the suspension of the procedure until such time as the social services consider appropriate for a maximum period of one month or two months when the applicant is a legal person. This clarifies the procedure by introducing greater legal certainty and specific measures to address situations requiring greater social protection. Title IV, which covers economic and fiscal measures, first includes the amendment of the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, introducing three measures into the property tax. First, the obligation to pass the tax on to the lessee is exempted where the lessor is a public entity in the case of rental of residential property with income limited by a legal rule. Secondly, the regulation of the charge provided for for permanent vacant residential properties is amended by referring them to the relevant sectoral housing, autonomous or state legislation with the rank of law, so that it can be applied by the municipalities through the approval of the corresponding fiscal ordinance. Finally, a potential bonus of up to 95 % is created for buildings intended for rental of housing with income limited by a legal rule. Moreover, in order to enhance the market for urban leases as a basic part of a housing policy, guided by the constitutional mandate enshrined in article 47 of the Constitution, it is appropriate to improve the taxation of housing leases in order to facilitate citizens' access to them. In this regard, an exemption for certain housing leases is introduced into the consolidated text of the Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts Tax Act. Another amendment to the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act is the extension of the scope of financially sustainable investments to accommodate the possibility of housing actions by local entities. This is a change that will help to remove barriers and alleviate the serious social housing deficit in our country. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law includes an additional provision, three final provisions and two transitional provisions. The additional provision incorporates the mandate of the Ministry of Development mentioned above, in order to boost the supply of rented housing. The final provisions set out the competition titles, the authorisation for their regulatory development and the date of entry into force of the standard. The first transitional provision provides that leases entered into prior to the entry into force of this Royal Decree-Law will continue to be governed by the legal regime applicable to them, and the second transitional provision provides for a period of three fiscal years for the communities of owners to adjust to the new amount of the reserve fund. I conclude this paragraph, ladies and gentlemen. After analysing the situation and ratifying the reasons for security, necessity and urgency required by the Constitution, the Government proceeded - as I have commented - to the Council of Ministers on 14 December to the adoption of this royal decree-law. I therefore ask the House to vote in favour of its validation, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is because this royal decree-law is a real decree-law of a social nature, which seeks to give an urgent political response to the problem of access to housing in Spain, which seeks to reverse the consequences that the 2013 LAU liberal reform had on the rental market, a reform that did not serve to stimulate the rental market, but rather to stimulate unorthodox price rises and that gave vortex and cover to speculative manoeuvres in the housing market, which incorporates and incorporates into our order the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the right to housing and evictions, which defends tenants, gives security to tenants, and gives advice to abusive practices on the market by investment funds, and with which the State takes the initiative to solve the housing problem in Spain, as it has implemented the Plan 20 000 and reformulating and advancing the State Housing Plan's aid. This translates into specific issues - I have just reported them - that directly affect citizenship, such as the increase to five or seven years of the mandatory rent extension period, the limitation of additional guarantees to two monthly instalments, a more rational regulation for works to improve accessibility in owner communities, the introduction of qualified majority voting so that owner communities can treat tourist homes, the fact that evictions can be suspended when they affect cases requiring social protection, or the introduction of measures in the property tax, including the regulation of the surcharge for vacant residential properties. They are a first step, although there is no doubt that all of them will have to be accompanied by additional measures, in which this Government continues to work. In addition, we are working for the elaboration of the first state law on housing for democracy, with the aim of attracting the rest of the parties to a state pact for housing, which was launched by our President Pedro Sánchez, a proposal that I continue to offer in every intervention I have in this House. But today it is necessary to ratify this decree-law to ensure compliance with the most urgent issues identified by the United Nations. That is why we believe from the Government that the validation of the decree-law is necessary. This is an opportunity we cannot miss. Opportunities are presented and exploited or wasted, and this is certainly an opportunity. I would therefore like to express in advance my gratitude on behalf of the Government to the groups that support this validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u7	Thank you very much. It has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor for this group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u8	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have the honour to defend the position of my parliamentary group on one of these eight decrees which are intended to be validated today, representing the twenty-first of twenty-five decree-laws that this government has drawn up in seven months. This particular is called Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Housing and Rental Measures, which you have sold as the expected great revolution to solve the housing problems of this country. I ask you, Mr. Ábalos, do you really know what happens in Spain with housing? Do you know how free housing, social housing, protected housing works? Have you stopped to analyze why housing prices are rising in the main capitals, in Madrid, in Barcelona, in the Canary Islands, in the Balearic Islands? With all due respect, I don't think so. I anticipate that we are not going to support this royal decree simply because we believe that it does not serve, that it does not solve what you say it solves, that is, the urgent problems of social and protected housing, when all the measures affect the free market. This is a set of isolated measures that respond to some problems, are loose measures that as a whole do not respond to the real problem of housing in Spain: shortage of supply in all segments and lack of legal certainty. All that is going against this and not solving the problem is neither necessary nor much less urgent. All these measures have little to do with dynamism, with creating offer. They're distorting factors. The most striking measure, which is the increase in minimum lease terms up to seven years, in the event that the lessor is a legal person, is the most distorting measure we have seen in this month of the actual decree. Do you know what the effects have been this month? First, the halting of signatures by the tenants until the applicable regulations are cleared, and this is what entails that technique that you use from the royal decree, which only generates uncertainty and scares all actors in a growing economic scenario. People don't know what to stick to, and on a topic like housing this is very delicate. They are playing with fire and what they generate is insecurity and uncertainty in the tenants. Prices in income have increased significantly below EUR 600 to prevent them from being considered as reduced income. They have tightened the risk criteria in view of the impossibility of asking for additional guarantees. The conclusion has been less leases and more expensive, this is what happened this month. The only thing that has caused this decree has been to create an absolutely unnecessary mess, and what needs to be done is very simple, and it is to increase the supply, with two basic options: either we make new housing or we try to get the existing empty housing on the market. Where? Where we have the problem, Mr. Ábalos. It is not necessary to explain much to understand that you want to make three hundred houses in Valencia, but that will not solve the problem in the Canary Islands or in any region of Spain, only in your home country, the Valencian Community, and that is done by encouraging and not penalizing as this decree points out. Let us be serious, this decree is electoral propaganda, this is simply a justification that they have done something, but something that is nothing, is a justification for its ineffectiveness. When you arrived here you promised the great revolution, that you were going to reorient this country's housing policy, that housing was going to be a fundamental pillar of your mandate, and what did you do? First, to put in place the People's Party Housing Plan, but this decree is all it does is to wink at Podemos, because then they are also not convinced of any of its proposals, and they hope that what is going to materialize is going to be monastic of change in the General Budgets of the State, which is the control of rental prices by the municipalities. It is true that rent prices rise indiscriminately, but we all know that it is neither general nor homogeneous in all cities nor in all autonomous communities, it occurs especially where the increase in demand has not been accompanied by the increase in supply, and where residential activity has been contaminated with other things such as tourist rent, among other things because we also know that it is not the only factor. The measures taken must respond to two fundamental questions: to encourage, on the one hand, an increase in the supply of rented housing, and within it, affordable prices, and, on the other hand, legal certainty, both of lease and security contracts in real estate promotion and urban actions, which is easy to put housing on the market, because it is not easy for public housing or private housing right now, and any measure outside this context will have the opposite effect: to strangulate prices more, and what will cause more shortages. Minister, I hope that this battle will lose it and that this decree will fall, but it will have two more battles to be fought: the intervention in the rental prices demanded by its partners from Podemos in the municipalities, and if it opens its hand, the next thing they will ask will be to regulate the occupations in precarious. That is what I am going to ask you, Minister, to add - which you did not do last time - to the proposal for a law that we will present next Friday to continue working on the illegal occupation of housing, which remains one of the main scourges of our cities, with the endorsement of those who keep Mr Sánchez in La Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I do not know whether the Minister wants to intervene. [[Denials]] Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas Gonzalez-Moro spoke in the position-setting session of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support this decree, although we believe that it should be dealt with as a draft law, because it presents a number of shortcomings and we believe that improvements should be made. We also believe that there has not been a working table with the Autonomous Communities, which would have much to contribute to this problem and to this particular decree. With regard to the improvements that we believe should be made, we believe that, first of all, beyond considering financially sustainable housing councils, this should be extended to other institutions, such as the autonomous communities, because in the case of the Canary Islands we could have hundreds of millions of euros - we have surplus - by making the consideration of sustainable housing, giving us greater capacity than that of the municipalities themselves. Secondly, we believe that the IBI should be compulsory for the entire public housing park and not left to the will of the municipalities. We think that the issue of the accessibility works of the Autonomous Communities is appropriate, and we should see whether there is room for improvement in energy efficiency as well with regard to community spending. Finally, we believe that we should adopt some mechanisms both in the policy of disposing of housing from the Sareb and from the large public park funds, so that access by the autonomous communities is a priority. For all this, we will support this royal decree, but, as I say, we believe that it should be treated as a bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u11	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u12	The proposed text does not respond to the situation described in the decree itself. The measures it contains do not address the problem of the impossibility of access to rental houses mainly because of the high cost of them. Although the fiscal and housing powers we have in our case make the impact of these measures in our territory very relative, we cannot support a proposal that will not be able to prevent the increasing number of evictions due to the non-payment of rent for abusive prices. This is the main lack of this royal decree, which does not act to limit the prices of the rent, which does not want to intervene in the market of the rent, without which the problem is not reduced. However, it also does not propose concrete measures to mobilize the empty housing stock and the Government does not intend to expand the accessible public housing stock, which is virtually non-existent at present. It is good to go from three to five years, to limit the bonds that are claimed, but if the extension of rental periods does not apply to existing contracts and does not intervene on prices, these will end, there will be an increase in prices at the expense of the owner and this will make access to housing more difficult. If someone finally manages to rent it, only then the changes proposed will guarantee you a longer period of stay in that house. We wonder why it is only for protected dwellings that the annual income review is required through the CPI and not established for all dwellings. We understand that, once again, the proposed measures remain short, do not tackle the underlying problem and will not put a stop to the rent-free evictions, which, by the way, increase at a rate of 5% per annum. We understand that we have to act on all these matters - on the IBI of empty houses are already operating many localities in Euskal Herria - and that this is not the way. It is also necessary to act on the tourist flats. The proposal is coming very close, but we believe that we cannot substantially support this royal decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u13	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, this royal decree is very short, and we understand that in general this government is lacking a great deal of courage. When we discussed the recovery of universal health, we said that they were short; when they proposed to us the reversal of the copayo, they were short, even with the General Budgets of the State they were short when it came to fulfilling some autonomous statutes, as in the Valencian case. Six months of government and we continue with a lot of aesthetics and few measures of silence, so we understand that the decree lacks a lot of courage and that the Socialist Party's government lacks a lot of courage. In addition, in the case of housing speculation and breaking the rental bubble, they had the clear example of the Valencian Law for the social role of housing. They didn't have to risk anything. This law has managed to stop fifty-eight evictions only in the first year of life; a law that, in addition, gained a large majority in the Valencian Government. She was supported by Compromís, Podemos and the Socialist Party, even Citizens supported her. Therefore, there was nothing to risk, only to take this text and bring it here saving the autonomic competences, as we were clear that it was a just, useful and consensus-generating law. That is why we understand that it is very short. This shows us once again that the Socialist Party makes a lot of noise and gives few nuts instead of actually betting on rescuing people. Still, we're going to support this decree-law because you make us choose between the bad and the worse and we're going to keep the bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u16	Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about housing, so it's not worth frivolities. I have to say that our support is very conditional on it being treated - as some other spokesman has said - as a bill; it is a necessary but not sufficient condition. In any case, the yes would be a yes very conditioned to the processing of the law itself. Conditions? In the end, it will depend on the legal record that the rental price benchmarks applied by the Generalitat are taken into account or that it is an autonomous competition. Not to insecurity. The PDECAT is committed to the stability of the rent and also to the market moving away from the price increase that makes it impossible for people to stay in their city or neighbourhood. We believe that this is a right. We want this law to bet on tax incentives to stimulate the application of benchmarks. We recognize that this decree-law is in favour of stability from three to five years the duration of contracts, which we consider necessary and urgent. In conclusion and in conclusion, with the validation and commitment of these points that I have said in advance, they could count on our support; if not, we will not support it. Thank you very much, President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u17	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u18	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, it seems that everyone is beginning to agree on the possibility of passing this decree-law and of requesting its processing as a bill, which we too will be pushing for. We do so because we understand that the project as such has positive measures, without prejudice to the fact that there is another debate not about what it has but about what it does not have, which are effective measures aimed at regulating or limiting rental prices. We believe that this debate should take place in another framework and with other guarantees, that is, speaking specifically on this issue, with sufficient legal guarantees and, in addition, within a framework of consensus. That is why we believe that this action is positive and, without prejudice to the fact that we can propose certain corrective measures in its way as a draft law, we will support it. He said that this royal decree-law, which - as they have already explained - has five articles and various provisions, first proposes the amendment of the Urban Leases Act with several measures, including the extension of the period of validity of the lease from three to five years and the extension regime, which in some cases are automatic. About this we are a little disparate. We understand that this measure is necessary and appropriate, but only, in principle, with regard to those groups of large forks. We believe that it can not have such a positive effect - it can even charge them some kind of tax added to those they already have - for those who are small forbearers, small homeowners, small savers who put on the market a house, facilitating not only their survival, but that of those to whom they can rent that house under a certain regime. The second issue, with which we also agree, is the amendment of the Horizontal Property Act, which regulates various issues, among others - although it has been mentioned here that insufficiently - the issue of tourist flats. It is necessary to start looking at it without prejudice to claiming that it is a matter that falls within the competence of the autonomous legislator and that, therefore, it is up to him to do so. The third issue is that of the eviction procedure. In principle we agree, I will simply set an example. There is a precedent in the Basque Country, in which, as a result of an agreement between the Basque Government, the Association of Municipalities - Eudel - and the General Council of the Judiciary, there is already a preventive mechanism in which this precautionary measure is applied. It does not, however, have a preceptive character or a legal obligation, as envisaged in this law, so we also see it as a positive one. Fourthly, with regard to the measures relating to the Local Finance Act, I would simply like to recall, as did the Member of Parliament in Bildu, that this is a matter which falls within the competence of the historical territories, of the general boards of each historical territory, and that many of the measures that she proposes are already in place in Euskadi and others are operative in nature for the municipalities, so we believe that there may be a certain impact on the area of municipal autonomy which may not be too successful. Finally, with regard to this issue, some clarification will have to be made in the area of competition, since in the single final provision, with regard to the competition title on which the State intervenes, mention is made only to 149.1.14 and not to the first additional provision, which is that relating to the historical competences which, as such, could have corresponded to the historical territories, since, I repeat, this question, the prosecutor, the farmer's office and the local estates, is the responsibility of the general boards of the Basque historical territories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u19	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u20	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. [[Continue your speech in Catalan.-Applause]] Last Wednesday, sixteen people accused of public disorder were arrested in the Gironine Comarques for allegedly cutting off the AVE tracks, including students, a journalist and the mayors of Verges and Celrà. The mayor of Verges was arrested when he was still at night by four national police officers hooded, without identification and, what is even more serious, without a court order; uniformed by day and uncontrolled by night, as a good friend says. These are, therefore, illegal and arbitrary arrests designed to give fear, a general, rule-based case against independence that will culminate in a trial in the Supreme Court in a few days' time. We therefore request the immediate appearance of Minister Marlaska, to explain to us how this political police controlled by the far right works. We demand the withdrawal of the complaint by ADIF.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u21	Mr. Margall, one second. It's been a minute and a half since the question. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u22	I'm done, President. [[Pronounce words in Catalan.-Applause]] With regard to the decree on urgent measures in the field of housing and rent, it includes some measures which we consider necessary, but which under no circumstances are sufficient to solve the serious problem before us. Minister, they have not been brave, and with this royal decree they have made a patch and have not dared to regulate the price of rents, which is as necessary as it is urgent. The measures relating to the eviction procedure are clearly insufficient and the only thing they achieve is to derive responsibility from the social services of the municipalities and cities without introducing measures that allow the municipalities to have greater resources. We want to remember a demolishing fact: in this country, 165 families are being evicted every day. While it is true that the measures included in this decree can be a starting point for more ambitious regulation, we believe that the current wording does not solve the fundamental problem, which is precisely the abusive amount of rents. We suppose, minister, that they have had pressure from the usual, from the vulture funds, who want to enrich themselves and speculate with the housing of the people. Therefore, we ask them to be courageous and to stand by those who suffer for keeping their homes, not by those who want to throw them away. If they do, they will have our support; in the meantime, our vote will be no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u23	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today you bring us a validation of a royal decree-law of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent based on five premises. The first is the stress rate in families. According to the explanatory statement of the royal decree, it is increased by the intense destruction and precariousization of employment in our country. However, the effort rate for this year 2018 has been lower than for 2017 and 2017 has been lower than for 2016. I give you the reason, in fact this precarious job makes many people who could try to buy a house, for the salaries that do not reach them at the end of the month - more than seven million Spaniards do not reach the end of the month - have no other remedy than to go to rent. However, giving reason to this point, Minister - the precariousness of employment, the policies of the last twenty-five years of this country, 18% unemployment rate, 45% youth unemployment rate, with precarious jobs right now - what I do not understand is that you voted no to our law against precarious work and that now, in these fake budgets, you eliminate the 500 million mark for the wage supplement for young people. [[applause]] Be clear, Minister, one or the other, you cannot go both ways. That is the problem you have in this royal decree. They're talking about price increases. As far as I know, if we make a price increase ratio, the rental price rate is still below what was before the crisis. Indeed, there is an increase in prices at certain points in Spanish geography - in certain parts of Madrid, in certain parts of Barcelona, in the Balearic Islands - but the average is below the crisis. You're talking about a shortage of social housing. I'm telling you the reason. The public housing policy in the last 25 years has been a disaster: only 2.5 of the housing stock is social housing. That's what I'm saying. We must work to give housing solutions to families who need them, but this royal decree gives no solution to this issue. Citizens bet on a social housing policy, yes, indeed. We bet on a public-private partnership that allows for the creation of housing for rent for social housing and also for rent for affordable housing, the creation of residences for the elderly, the creation of student residences, sheltered housing for the elderly..., giving legal certainty to the sector and betting on agreements with private companies to provide housing solutions at a well-defined price. Today, the average price in Madrid is 15 euros per square metre. The vulture funds, which we are all talking about here, are at an average of EUR 6.5. Therefore, the data should be carefully studied. I tell you one thing: the increase in evictions is at a rate of 5%. Unfortunately, there are 30 000 rental evictions a year, but this accounts for 0.8 % of the housing rental stock in this country, Minister. Do you know what that means? That's called the structural index of lateness. It's economic stuff. I will tell you something else: if you make policies like the one we have proposed to you, policies that bet on social housing and affordable housing, that index will be reduced, but not with this royal decree, Minister. They're talking about accessibility and I think it's a little hot. You and I agree that we have to bet on it, but that it is regulated by a real decree of urgent measures... Don't you think that accessibility in cities, accessibility in buildings and in our streets has to have a specific law? I think they've been trying to put something in there in an inconvenient way. I have already shown you that your five premises are not adequate for a priority issue. Do you know what the priority is? His deals with Podemos populists. That's the priority you guys have. I do not know the pacts you have to keep your president in Moncloa, but at the first change your partners will vote no. You go carefully, Minister, you go carefully. The lack of social housing - which is a major problem and we all agree that we need to solve - affects only 4% of this country's rental park, and you want to solve it by affecting free rental homes, four million natural persons and small savers who have their apartments for rent. If you, Madam President, bring to this House housing initiatives that are consensual with the sector in which you are betting on supply policies that allow you to develop the market by making it more flexible, more transparent, more balanced, more professional, more modern and looking to the future, then you can count on us, but if you bring us initiatives like this, with short-term policies, mere patches, based on overnight, expired, failed housing policies that look to the past, then, Minister, do not have the support of Citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u25	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Ábalos, I will tell you, for starters, it has been a relief to see that the person who went up to the rostrum to defend this decree was you and not Minister Calviño. Not that I have anything personal against the minister, but I know I'm not too mistaken if I say that your hand and that of your team have been noticed on every line of the rule that you bring us here today. Although this decree was passed at the Council of Ministers on 14 December, we all know that its content began to be profiled a month earlier, when Blackstone, one of the most powerful vulture funds in the world, publicly addressed the Minister of Economics to tell her that in no way could the housing agreement be applied in the terms in which it had been signed. Obviously, everyone decides who they want to listen to in politics, but, frankly, we believe that you, minister, in this matter had it very easy. We had signed a powerful agreement, an agreement that no doubt protected the rights of a large majority: the rights of those who spend almost half of their wages paying rent; the rights of those who do not know how much they are going to raise in the next contract; the rights of young people, older people, people who, despite having a job, do not get to pay their rent; the rights of middle classes across the country who do not know whether they will be able to continue living in their neighborhood or even in their city. You had to choose between listening to and defending the rights of all these people or protecting as much as possible, lowering our agreement, to all who, like Blackstone, are being fed at the expense of liquidated rights and precariousing the lives of thousands of families. Thus things, when we were in full negotiation, you drew up a decree that we could read for the first time in the BOE. However, for us the worst of all has not been the forms - although I believe we agree that they have not been good - the worst of all has been an obvious attempt to dilute our agreement and to drop many measures which, reluctantly, we managed to accept when we negotiated the budgets. If not, how do you justify that almost the only thing you have kept intact from the agreement was the new duration of the contracts? Where is the rest, Minister? Where's the rest? It makes no sense to extend contracts if there are no measures to ensure that prices cannot rise indiscriminately. Are you aware that in this past month there are already cases of large owners demanding 1000 euros per month for the first three years of contract, 1200 for the next two and 1400 for the other two? This is because you have given up amending what the PP introduced in 2013 to prevent prices under the same contract from only raising the CPI. Just a year ago, when the PSOE was in opposition, they proposed reversing that measure, and then we agreed. What happens now? That since they're in government they like what the PP approved more in 2013? I'm on it. If the budget agreement provides for municipalities to be allowed to limit abusive rent increases, how is it possible that this is not in the actual decree? How is that possible? Do you understand what's happening in the cities? Do you not realize that today, in addition to the thousands of evictions handed down in the courts, there are thousands of other silent evictions of neighbors and neighbors who have to leave their flats and neighborhoods because they are required to climb 40, 50, 100 or 300%? And more things. Why does this royal decree allow new home buyers, those funds to which some listen so carefully, not to be obliged to respect existing contracts if they are not in the Property Register? This is another measure that the PP introduced in 2013, precisely to facilitate the expulsion of neighbours and price increases. Do you agree more with the PP today than with us? You're really telling me that? [[Applauds]] And why don't you take the agreed upon with respect to who has to pay the cost of formalizing the contract? Why is there no significant change to protect vulnerable people facing eviction? Why? All these measures could already be applied to people who are living on rent and who have precarious contracts and would change their lives brutally. There are many things that this decree fails to fulfil and it is urgent and necessary to be able to resolve them as quickly as possible. Indeed, your Government has decided to sit down and talk seriously with us in the last few days, and I want to say here that we have made more progress in two evenings than in two months. We are convinced that this is the way to go and that we can bring about and resolve a situation that - without any doubt - also bothers us. [[Applauds]] Today we will vote against this royal decree and yet - I want it to be very clear - our vote does not seek to humiliate them, it does not seek to harm them nor does it intend to undo the majority of progress that was generated in the motion of censure. Voting against this royal decree is for us an act of responsibility, an act of vindication of the agreement we signed and, ultimately, an act to demand courageous measures that begin to truly guarantee the right to housing for all citizens. And we are so clear because we know perfectly well what's going on on the street and because we never forget who we are or what we're here for. Minister, I ask you to continue working with us to agree on a new royal decree shortly, to listen to the demands of the municipalities of the main cities of the country, to listen to the tenants' unions, to the platforms of the affected, to listen to the demands of the majority of the citizenry that we ask for the first time in decades to face those who have always decided which housing policies had to be implemented in this country. Be brave and stand by people's side. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u27	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. I believe that the problem of lack of housing should not be turned around, Mrs Zurita, as a result of the disastrous economic policies of the People's Party Government. They are policies that have fostered an intense and prolonged boom in the real estate sector, mainly aimed at housing and that have led to very high debt rates for both businesses and families, the most vulnerable being those who suffer mainly from it. They are families with limited resources who have been demanding access to rented housing, finding themselves with a low supply and the consequent increase in rental prices, especially in large cities. Therefore, it is not a question of battles, it is a question of recovering rights that have been lost with the People's Party. I understand that it sounds strange to you, but even rarer it may sound to us all than before this a group like Podemos prefers to vote with the right, with the People's Party. In any case, it is essential to put an end to this situation and, of course, this would go by controlling rental prices. I know that this is the will of the Government, but it is not a question of not doing so, but of doing it right. You know that. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in order for rental prices to be regulated by the central government throughout the national territory, it is necessary to establish a price index for those who have the competence to do so, who are not other than the autonomous communities. Invading those skills would mean an involution and as far as I know - at least so far - both you and I think that involution is not what this country needs. And that is what has led this government to commit to the preparation of the normative texts throughout 2019 in order to establish the benchmarks and the mechanisms necessary for this to be carried out, but this requires time and, above all - I insist - requires the prior action of the autonomous communities, of all of them. But, in the meantime, time is pressing because the problem of lack of housing is a reality that is only solved by facilitating access to rental housing. Therefore, it is necessary to take action as soon as possible, it is very important that we do not stop because there are many families - you have referred to them here - who are demanding concrete actions, they are families who do not understand why from institutions we sometimes stumble and interfere in specific matters without really addressing the generality of their problems. I'm sure they don't understand why Podemos's proposal for a housing law, the so-called PAH housing law, is still standing at the table after four months or why the former People's Party government vetoed the bill that my group tabled on measures to promote stable rent, without even allowing its debate in this House. First of all, it is urgent that we can establish a more sensitive legal framework that is conducive to the realization of the right to housing, which is not only constitutionally desirable, but also politically necessary, especially in a situation in which inflationary tensions and problems of exclusion in the real estate market are again observed for economic reasons without doubt, but also for mere abandonment in housing policies. That does not allow us to do anything and not to do anything is happening to us and, above all, to the families who demand urgent action to offer solutions and legal certainty in this area to both tenants and tenants, and to promoters too, Mr Garaulet. It is precisely this urgency that has led the Government to bring here today this royal decree for its validation and that leads us to announce that my group is going to vote in favour of it. The measures contained here have been specified by the Minister, which are measures as necessary as the increase in the time limits for compulsory extensions, the limitation of the amount of the bonds or the possibility that the municipalities will be left to the purchase of social housing. We are aware, however, that when we talk about housing, there are many measures that must be taken to ensure that this security is constant and responds to long-term projects. Therefore, given that many speakers have also mentioned here the need for the text to be improved and considering these measures as essential and fundamental to establishing a regulatory framework, we can jointly set more long-term measures for the right to housing. My group believes that, once the royal decree has been validated, it can be treated as a bill and so we can all work, contribute and discuss in order to guarantee the right to housing. Keep in mind that human rights are interdependent and indivisible and interrelated, so that violations of the right to adequate housing can affect the enjoyment of a wide range of other human rights. This should be sufficient justification to vote in favour of its validation. Voting against it will remain impassable in the face of the dramatic situation that thousands of families in this country are suffering. There is no point in getting megaphones out of hand to claim the right to housing if, in time of truth, they prevent urgent measures being taken that much of this country has been demanding. That's the responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u29	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 22/2018, OF 14 DECEMBER, ESTABLISHING MACROPRUDENTIAL TOOLS. [[File number 130/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u30	We now proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 22/2018 of 14 December, establishing macroprudential tools. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u31	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I compare this morning before the plenary of the House to defend, in place of my colleague the Minister of Economy and Enterprise, the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 22/2018, of 14 December, establishing macroprudential tools. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real decree-law with which we intend to equip our supervisory bodies with new macroprudential tools, efficient tools with which to prevent future crises, act in time when they occur or minimize their impact on the economy and on people. Moreover, as you already know, this legislative initiative is complemented by a real decree that is being processed urgently to create the new macroprudential authority of the Financial Stability Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we can agree that this is really a need identified by the experience we have had so far, when we found that traditional tools, those relating to economic policy and financial supervision, have not been used to deal with certain factors that have emerged as a result of the recent financial crisis. We need to rebuild the alert detection system so that certain behaviours can really be prevented and, above all, action can be taken before inevitable consequences occur. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to add that the world in which we are moving is becoming increasingly complex, an interconnected world, which we can extrapolate to the current financial system and, of course, to the international variables that make crises global and global. This forces us to equip ourselves with more advanced tools to prevent those risks that may have a systemic character, that is, those risks that can actually generate a disruption in the provision of financial services that ends up effectively affecting the real economy. [[Rumors]] Therefore, before I enter into the content of this royal decreeley, let me briefly recall the context in which this rule is adopted. They recall that since 2011 various international bodies, such as the European Systemic Risk Board, the IMF or the Financial Stability Board, have been recommending that a macroprudential supervisory authority be established and that it be provided with appropriate tools to preserve financial stability. The recommendations of the European Systemic Risk Board have been met by all Member States of the European Union and only Spain and Italy are missing. That is why we now have an appropriate institutional system so that we can anticipate and avoid any future financial crisis. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u32	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u33	We cannot escape that the entry into force of such instruments will position our economy and our financial system in greater protection against unexpected tensions in the markets; tensions that have serious implications for our economy, as unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed in recent years. It is precisely this concern that inspires this royal decreeley, whose fundamental objective is precisely to strengthen the macroprudential tools of the three sectoral supervisors of our financial system: the Bank of Spain, the National Securities Market Commission and the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds. In relation to the Banco de España, the Royal Decree-Law empowers it to require the establishment of countercyclical capital mattresses to reinforce the capital requirements that financial institutions have during bonanza periods on the basis of the risks assumed by exposures to a particular sector. They will understand that the ultimate objective is to ensure that the capital structures of Spanish financial institutions are sufficiently robust and robust when faced with times of recession, as well as to recognise the differential risks that are being assumed in specific sectors. In fact, the Banco de España already has the power to impose a general countercyclical capital surcharge on all exposures. From now on, it may also require the establishment of specific mattresses for exposures to a particular sector, e.g. the real estate sector. On the other hand, the Bank of Spain's capacity for action is strengthened by allowing it to limit the granting of loans directly. For this purpose, the bank itself may set limits on the credit to be granted to a particular counterparty, for example by setting a ceiling on the relationship between the nominal of the loan and the value of the guarantee or on the relationship between the monthly payment for the credit and the periodic income of the debtor. This is a change that will increase the effectiveness of the tools that are made available to the supervisor, since the prudential capital requirements that already exist before the approval of this royal decreeley act indirectly by establishing a cost to the granting of the credit, but at this time they do not have the capacity to limit it quantitatively and lose efficiency from relatively high levels. In the same vein, the Royal Decree-Law establishes instruments so that the National Securities Market Commission can also tackle activities that may result in excessive indebtedness of economic operators. In addition, it will from now on have the power to fix liquidity requirements for institutions or collective investment undertakings - open or closed - of management companies or venture capital undertakings. This type of entity invests in assets that are not necessarily liquid, while at the same time offering different repayment and equity profiles that can even be daily. As you can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, this results in a liquidity mismatch that can lead to forced sales of assets to comply precisely with claims for reimbursement in a situation of market tension, which can negatively affect other participants in the financial market by generating a contagion effect. This is particularly relevant given that these types of funds are marketed by private individuals, which makes them particularly sensitive from a social point of view. The aim is therefore to strengthen the liquidity of such entities by obliging them to maintain a minimum volume of assets, especially liquid assets, to prevent or mitigate risks in this regard and also the effects they may have on financial stability as a whole. In fact, the approval between securities sectors and credit institutions will allow such measures to be activated in a coordinated manner, thereby minimizing the possible transmission of risks. Thirdly, the Royal Decree-Law empowers the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds to lay down certain conditions for portfolio sales where they may affect the sustainability of institutions by disrupting financial stability. In the latter case, the aim is to prevent the possible emergence of market trends aimed at the transfer of certain types of risk, leading to decompensation of the balance sheets of insurance entities and ultimately affecting the whole system. Similarly, as I mentioned earlier, restrictions may be imposed on the sectoral concentration of insurers and reinsurers similar to those established, for example, by the Banco de España in relation to credit institutions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of these instruments, in which the European Union is also working with the view put into effect in 2020, Spain becomes a pioneer country in the inclusion of macro-prudential tools in the field of insurance. But besides benefiting from financial stability, we would say that this set of macroprudential tools will be positive for the Spanish economy, as it will help smooth financial cycles. This will allow the volatility of financial asset prices, e.g. real estate, to decrease, which in turn will contain the risk premium that lenders demand from borrowers, thereby enabling the economy as a whole to enjoy more favourable financing conditions. In addition, softer financial cycles also reduce the emergence of bubble formation and abrupt fall in asset prices, which may help to avoid episodes of mass destruction of employment such as that experienced between 2008 and 2013 and from which, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that we have not yet recovered. Along with these obvious benefits for investment, consumption, growth or employment, having these macroprudential tools that apply to all sectors of the financial system also results in more effective competition from these markets, which from now on will be regulated in a similar way regardless of which economic operator carries out each activity. Indirectly, this will also allow us to more homogeneous treatment of financial institutions in different sectors, thus avoiding the transfer of risks from those areas subject to lower regulatory requirements and promoting competition on equal terms. As you see, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this - this is a very positive royal decree-law for our country both in the short and in the medium term when it comes to preventing and mitigating future financial crises. This is undoubtedly a key element in strengthening sustainable economic growth, in promoting job creation and, ultimately, in ensuring the well-being of citizens. We also comply with the recommendations of international agencies and put an end to the uniqueness of our financial oversight system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u34	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Another week, and a few days from the beginning of a trial that should never be held, I must remind you of the existence of political prisoners in the Spanish State, to the shame of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Having said that, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. Madam Minister, I have to tell you - I thought I would tell Minister Calviño, but you cannot accompany us today - that, unlike other colleagues in your Government, you are doing relatively reasonably, and within the limitations with which your Government is located, the lines of work of your ministry marked in the attendance that you did, if I remember correctly, on 10 July, something that is to be thanked. This royal decree that brings us today is an example of this. It is true that there were some recommendations that we have not complied with. It is true that there were some lessons from the last financial crisis, whose conclusions we had not materialized in our legislation. We therefore understand that this is an important step forward. It is also a step forward in the creation of the National Financial Stability Authority, a macro-prudential authority that is in process and that has to finish setting up this royal decree. It seems reasonable to us that from the Banco de España there can be limitations in specific cases based on the borrowing capacity of some economic operators. It is also reasonable for us to limit credit risk in some sectors. All these are examples of what has happened over the past few years with our economy. We therefore think that this increase - if you want to see it this way - in the powers or capacity of the Bank of Spain, the National Securities Market Commission and the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds is reasonable. However, there may be nuances or some improvements in these areas of competition that could be incorporated. As a result, I say to you that if we ask for the bill to be processed, our group will support it. I urge you that this collegiate body, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission, which is being set up as a macro-prudential authority, should enter into force as soon as possible. We are aware of the limitations on this, but it would be reasonable. It would also seem reasonable to us that, as far as the Government of the State is concerned, the views of the economic leaders of each of the autonomous communities should be taken into account, because the uniqueness of a territory or country within the State may at some point make it necessary to take specific action. In any case, I repeat that we will vote in favour. Unlike other members of the Government, I would like to congratulate Minister Calviño, with all the necessary qualifications, on the progress she is making today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u36	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u37	Thank you, Madam President. It will only be a minute to say that we will support this decree. I have been chairman of the Committee of Inquiry into the financial crisis and this is one of the issues on which there has been unanimity on the part of all groups, but above all I would like to remind Pedro Saura, who was a spokesman for the economy, whose obsession was always the creation of this macroprudential supervisory authority. This instrument is essential to prevent systemic risks, but I believe that we are slow and that today this should not have come, but that the decree establishing the body should have come, but both the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission have urged all parliamentary groups in the Commission to approve this. We are going to be late, and I think it is essential, Minister, that the decree should come as soon as possible. Yesterday there have been announcements by the Monetary Fund of a certain international recession in economic aspects and we cannot again have a fundamental element to prevent a contagion to the entire crisis economy at the international level. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u39	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This Royal Decree-Law aims to establish a series of macro-prudential measures to prevent and, where appropriate, reduce the risk and macroeconomic costs of financial instability. It should be said that macroprudential regulation is indeed characterized by the approach in financial regulation aimed at mitigating the risk of the financial system or systemic risk. After the financial crisis, it is true that there has been a consensus among the different policy makers on the need to reorient the regulatory framework towards a macroprudential perspective, mainly due to the scope and gravity of the last banking crisis, and this is also apparent from the various reports drawn up in Europe, which also contains the decree itself. It must be said that macroprudential policy is not new, here we already have the example of the Banco de España, because it already used early macroprudential instruments such as countercyclical provisions to protect the banking system from a pronounced credit expansion, but which, however, were ultimately insufficient. As a result of this and other insufficient actions by some regulatory and supervisory bodies, as reflected in the conclusions of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Crisis carried out at this Congress, we believe that the need not only to establish new macro-prudential measures to prevent future crises is urgent, but also that this report points to the need for the creation of a macro-prudential authority to prevent, as we have already pointed out, systemic risks. [[The Lord]] I should mention that the Royal Decree introduces amendments to the Bank of Spain's Law on Management and Supervision, enabling it to increase capital requirements on a specific portfolio of exposures to limit credit institutions' exposures to specific economic sectors, and to set limits and conditions on the granting of loans. The Royal Decree also provides the CNMV with the capacity to adopt measures aimed at strengthening the liquidity of institutions and collective investment entities, and may establish limitations on certain activities, supervised by their entities, which lead to an excessive increase in the risk of indebtedness to economic operators that may affect financial stability. The Royal Decree also empowers the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds to establish limitations on the aggregate exposure to a particular economic sector or categories of assets by the insurers and reinsurers, and also provides for the possibility of setting conditions for the transfer of risks and insurance portfolios by those entities. We also understand that these measures for the securities and credit institutions sectors can be activated, where appropriate, in a coordinated manner, which will also reduce the possibility of risk transmission. It should be noted that this type of macroprudential tools that are now reflected in this Royal Decree-Law is already reflected in other legal systems of homologous countries, and as I have already pointed out, since they are necessary measures in view also of the conclusions of the financial investigation report, this group will vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree-Law. But we also urge this Government to launch this independent and cross-cutting macroprudential authority, whose real objective is to keep abreast of macroeconomic changes, of signs that may show a crisis and avoid or try to prevent it, and not, as has happened in the previous crisis, where the bodies that should have done so, that should carry out this monitoring and analysis, seem to be looking elsewhere. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u40	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u41	With your permission. Good morning, everybody. Madam Minister, Jacques Delors, while President of the European Commission, said that the European Union was moving forward on the basis of resolving previous problems, not preventing them and avoiding them. This royal decree is a magnificent example of a Delorsian, if you can say so, because its aim is to solve a previous problem rather than prevent futures. It seems to me to be an overabundant and overoptimistic presumption to assume what will have been recorded, and it is that it will be measures by which any future financial crisis can be avoided. With all due respect, you have been portrayed, Minister. We believe that solving the effects of a previous problem is what this measure is trying to do. Those of us who came from the medical science study would call it a more symptomatic than an etiological treatment, and I will try to explain myself. The tools approved today aim to prevent an excess of credit concentration in a particular economic sector, but if we look back we will see that only in two of the four countries that had to be rescued - including Spain - there was an excess of credit concentration in a sector, namely real estate, which was Ireland and Spain. This did not happen in Greece or Portugal. On the other hand, only one of them had an excessive public debt problem, the supposed cause of all evils, which was Greece. On the other hand, the fantastic austerity policy imposed by the European Union with the Spanish welcome has resulted in the four countries that I am referring to today having an excessive public debt. In fact, if we look for common problematic elements in those four rescued countries we will find only one, which is the deterioration of their external balance. It was not a new problem for either of the four, but the euro prevented the usual and classic adjustment mechanism - that of the exchange rate of their currencies - without introducing any alternative mechanism, for example, greater control of current account balances both in the negative and the positive, since no one can incur an external deficit without someone willing to finance it by means of a symmetrical surplus. In the case of the eurozone, basically Germany. Let me also remind you that without reducing excessive surpluses through expansionary policies, it is impossible that there are no deficits. Therefore, if useful macroprudential policies are to be sought, they include current account balances: from the European Union, those of the different Member States; from the Spanish State, those of the different autonomous communities. I had prepared this speech for your colleague the Minister of Economy, but I think it is equally valid for you. Do you think it appropriate for a single community, Catalonia, to contribute around 50% of the Spanish positive external balance? How many and which communities - not a rhetorical question - have a negative balance that should be reduced? Some of them vote for 155 applications that are wider and stronger. [[Applauds]] How could Catalonia contribute by reducing its huge positive external balance through expansionary policies if it turns out to be one of the communities that manages a lower percentage of GDP? It's contradictory, isn't it? In particular, 11%, when, as you know, the average for all communities is 14%. In short, we will not deny that the tools provided for by this royal decree-law are necessary, but there is no doubt that they are at all sufficient. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Gómez García has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. It is up to you this morning to defend this royal decree-law and we can agree with you that it is appropriate to introduce in Spain a system of macroprudential supervision with tools necessary to deal with possible vulnerabilities of the financial system, following in this way the recommendations - as has already been said - of the International Monetary Fund, the Financial Stability Council and the European Systemic Risk Board and it is also true that we are late, that we are one of the only two countries left to approve this macroprudential authority of the European Union, but, minister, they bring this measure as a decree-law and justify the extraordinary and urgent need to deal with possible vulnerabilities of the financial system. And I wanted to ask you, do you want to tell me that our financial system is at such imminent risk that it is necessary to approve this by decree-law? Are we facing an imminent financial crisis? If not, Minister, the use of a decree-law is not justified. Because if you are selling us that the economy is going phenomenal, if you have presented the budgets saying that everything is going great, then I do not understand the rush to present a decree-law to approve all these measures. Therefore, the decree-law is not justified unless the situation really does not go so well and we are facing a possible crisis. I'd like you to tell me if we're really facing a crisis that justifies this decree-law. Rather, what it seems is that you have taken the pleasure of this governing by decree-law. In this sense they are beating all the records, this and that of the kilometers traveled. What times did those in which Mr. Sánchez, as leader of the opposition, abused Mr. Rajoy's use of the decree-law and made a promise: to limit the use of the decree-law simply to specific circumstances. Rajoy was besieged by the executive's usurpation of his duties to Parliament. But, of course, as the vice president would say: you're talking to me about someone else. [[Applauds]] As for authority, in the decree-law they do not regulate it, they refer to a regulation, but what we have been able to see from the draft regulation sincerely did not just convince us, we do not like it very much. Authority is constituted as an organ attached to the Ministry of Economy, without independence or autonomy, and it is not envisaged that independent technical persons will provide another vision, but the success or failure of this authority will depend enormously on the independence and strength of decision-making. Here it seems that we have not learned or wanted to learn anything from the bank bailout, a bank bailout that has cost us 6 billion euros to all Spaniards and that brings about the politicization of the boards of directors of the savings banks and the politicization of the supervisory and regulatory bodies. For you want to continue doing the same, colonizing the supervisory organs. And, minister, it is right to ask and demand responsibility and prudence in your actions from the entities, it is right to ask them not to take risks that could endanger the stability of the country, but, really, minister, with what legitimacy do you ask the entities for this? How can you tell those entities that do not take risks that endanger the stability of the country when you have adopted a budget that is false and that endangers the growth, wealth, stability and job creation of this country? How exactly can you say that, Minister? It is a budget that, according to all experts and according to the Economic Office of Citizens overestimates the revenues and even extraordinarily represents a year of thirteen months, the VAT for this budget is thirteen months. With a debt of historical maximums, close to 100 percent of GDP, you will not meet the deficit target and neither do you care: whoever comes back, who breaks down. All they care about is that Mr. Sánchez stays one more week in La Moncloa. How and at what price, that doesn't matter. In short, to demand others first we must comply and we must set an example, and you do not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to explain this to the Minister for Economic Affairs in person - you already know that and I told her the last day we were here - but you cannot continue to invoke the sense of responsibility for us to vote for the measures that your Government brings, your own, which it does not agree with anyone, to be adopted in this House. If you do not take part in these initiatives, you may get a good turn sometimes, when you have transpositions of directives that have a sanction behind you and that we believe it is our responsibility to vote in favour of them, or things may go wrong with them. I think things are arranged in a very simple way and I don't understand why you don't pick up a phone and call to ask our opinion or consideration about an initiative that you are going to bring here. The People's Party and Mr De Guindos - and I find it hard to tell you - did so on a permanent basis. You live without raising the phone and without appealing to dialogue. I don't know if what you want to save on the phone bill is what you spend on the Falcon's fuel. [[Laughter]] In fact, if I had called, perhaps the minister would have known some considerations about our position on this, I think we could have contributed something to what you bring here. Emergency? Relative, because you have not yet brought the royal decree-law of the macroprudential supervisory authority. They bring the instruments but have not yet presented what that authority is. And it is that the royal decree-law, deputy minister, has different conceptual problems, especially with these tools. In his explanatory statement he says - I say quotes -: 'During the last financial crisis the traditional tools of economic policy and financial supervision available to the authorities showed their limitations in preventing and mitigating some of these risks'. That's not true. We have had dozens of participants in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis who have said that the Bank of Spain and the regulatory and supervisory authorities could have done much more with the microprudential tools at their disposal or asking for new rules and did not do so. It was not a problem of tools, but of will to use existing tools. It was not a problem that the instruments that existed were microprudential and what is now cool in Europe are macroprudential instruments, the problem is that supervisors and regulators were captured, and you just have to see the list of entities where many of them have gone. Useful tools were repealed in that country and those that existed were not used. Or otherwise, minister, the problem is not the tools, but in whose hands are those tools. Secondly, you introduce macroprudential tools without taking into account that these tools are going to have a differentiated impact on the players in the banking and financial system. They unevenly affect small entities, which do not have internal risk management models, and large entities, which have risk-weighting models. The translation of that is that small entities will have to contribute to the same level of risk a higher level of capital than large entities. To solve this problem, macro-prudential instruments have to be established on unweighted assets, because if not the message that you are sending to the financial system is: small entities seek capital; large entities seek economists to enable them to optimize risk weighting models. If they want a genuine macroprudential instrument, they will put in place the global leverage ratio of Basel III, to which Europe continues to kick forward, which is precisely based on the limitation to leverage on own resources on the basis of assets, own funds, without risk weighting. Since 2013 Basel III has been around Europe. Finally, if macroprudential instruments are so concerned, what they have to do is to recover the real statistical or countercyclical provision, which goes not in function or generating capital mattresses, but seeking to influence the provisions. Why? Because provisions have an impact on the results account and the results account affects executive bonuses, so that a provision that grows more than proportionally as the risk increases decreases the results account and automatically slows down the risks. I'm done. Minister, his royal decree remains - Minister Calviño, by extension - short in the instruments he proposes. Re-privilege large entities with these instruments against small entities, and it is optimistic that in the case of a new bubble the same agents will act in a different way even though they have new tools. So I'm sorry to say that, as things are right now, we're going to vote no, out of responsibility; above all out of pedagogical responsibility, so that you learn to dialogue with us and with us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. We are debating today the validation of the Royal Decree-Law establishing macroprudential tools, a title that may not tell your lords much but which, by translating it, is to equip the supervisory agencies of our country - Banco de España, CNMV and Dirección General de Seguros - with the tools necessary to be able to anticipate and act at first against incidents or bubbles in the market, minimizing the impact they would have on the economy and people; preventive measures and more effective than the current ones. A royal decree-law which will be complemented by the establishment of the macroprudential supervisory authority already announced and which is being processed on an urgent basis. And it is that, after ten years of the outbreak of the previous crisis, the limitations of the tools that financial and banking institutions had to deal with according to what kind of risks are known. As has been apparent in the Commission of Inquiry which has been open for several months in this Congress, and as we have gathered practically all the groups in that Commission, there are appropriate proposals for the creation of these measures which we are debating today and which the Government has brought to us in this royal decree. Why does my group consider it urgent to implement these measures and, therefore, to validate this royal decree? Because since 2011 we are being notified by various international bodies, which recommend the implementation of these measures and the creation of the macroprudential authority that will be approved in the coming weeks. Both the Monetary Fund and the European Systemic Risk Board or the Financial Stability Council, as many speakers have commented, recommend the implementation of these measures and the creation of macroprudential authority. These recommendations have already been taken into account by all Member States except Italy and Spain. Some groups may not understand that this is an urgent matter, because neither did they understand it with the validation and transposition of directives of compulsory compliance, but it is an urgent matter. The question is whether we should be more protected from unexpected and sudden market tensions. From our point of view, of course, yes. In addition, the text we validate today is a simple text, five single articles and several provisions, which only aims, without a partisan vision, to adapt the supervisory institutions. I am not going to unravel everything that the Minister has already said, but I do want to highlight the two or three measures that I think are most appropriate. They will allow the Banco de España to exercise and establish countercyclical capital mattresses and specific capital mattresses for exposures to a particular sector, such as real estate. The capacity of the bank itself to set a ceiling between the nominal of the loan and the security provided or between the loan share and the revenue-generating capacity of the debtors themselves is strengthened. [[The lady]] Also the National Securities Market Commission required. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, will have a favourable impact not only on the financial system but also on the economy, reducing peaks in economic cycles and reducing the likelihood of bubble formation. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, this is a real positive decree-law for our country both in the short and in the medium term and, in addition, it is measures that you have all shared in this House and also in the Committee on the Investigation of the Financial Crisis. Many have referred to forms and not so much to the bottom, because the bottom does share it for the most part. I would like to thank the groups that have already expressed their vote in favour of this validation and the groups that have not expressed their vote in favour. I must tell them that we believe that we share the substance of the matter, which is the measures and the creation of the macroprudential authority. That the forms could be improved? We could agree on this, although they are quite legitimate forms but, like everything else in this life, they can be improved. We urge you to put aside the partisan positions and also to respond to the recommendations made to us by the different international bodies, which we have commented on here by each and every spokesman, to take into account the general interest and to incorporate these macro-prudential tools to limit the costs of future crises, which will surely come, as we have seen in the past and will inevitably see in the future. All I have to remind you is that what the government brings here today, these measures and these tools incorporated in this royal decree-law, both the People's Party and Podemos, Citizens and all the groups, we have proposed them to the Commission of Inquiry, we have discussed them and we have approved them. We would therefore not understand the vote against any of these groups on this validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to wish you all a happy year at the beginning of this new year 2019. If I wanted to punish you I would sing you a song that comes to my mind and that, like me, you will have sang quite a lot of times since the 1990s, the song of Alleged Involved How we have changed. And how we have changed!, Mr. Palacín. Do you remember what they said by a few royal decrees of nothing recently? What did they say until just eight months ago about ruling by royal decrees? Do you know how many royal decrees were passed governing the People's Party from January to May last year? Three. And you, in the remaining seven months of last year, how many did you approve? Four, five? No, twenty-five; twenty-five royal decrees in seven months, more than eight times more. I'm not going back to appointments because Mr. Gómez has already done so. We don't like the royal decree either in substance or in form. By the way, as I said to you, by the abuse of Mr. Sánchez's government that, unable to bring in a bill, he is dedicated to ruling in a coup d'état: twenty-six royal decrees in just over seven months. He's still beating records of mismanagement. Today, for example, we see what is never seen in democracy: eight royal decree-laws are debated; most of these decrees are omnibuses and with little input from the government: either they transpose European directives or they recover some bills from the drawer. Furthermore, I would like to ask you, Minister, why you do not have our group to carry out certain initiatives in which we can agree. Move it to Mrs. Calviño. Why don't they call us and then demand our support? If they despise us, don't ask us for anything. Mr Montero has already made it clear to you. But we don't like the bottom either. It does not go into any more detail than was recommended by regulators and experts in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis. It leaves everything pending and is limited to slightly improving the macroprudential tools of the different regulators. You must work, Mrs Montero and Mrs Calviño, instead of campaigning for Mr Sánchez, and bring here a bill with macroprudential authority, with macroprudential tools, with the changes proposed by this House for the different bodies. If you don't, we will. We are working on a bill to radically reform the different regulatory bodies. Because you speak - and some other group has done so - of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis, most of our conclusions, but I think that only part of them have been read because what we proposed, and you approved, was - it is summarized -: improvements in procedures and controls for the purposes of responsibilities, integration and unification between supervisors, establishment of a functional model that would be articulated around two supervisory authorities - the Banco de España as solvency supervisor and the CNMV as supervisor of the rules of conduct - a macroprudential authority, sufficient means and an adequate level of independence of the supervisory authorities, approval and publication of organisational schemes and supervisory methodology, and coordination mechanisms between prudential and market supervisors. Where is all that, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, in this royal decree? We really wonder why they have not presented together with these measures the macroprudential authority and the reform of the supervisory bodies. I think they could have waited and brought it together as a bill so that we could improve it among all the groups, or is there something that they have not told us, Minister, something that has to do with urgency? Because so far they haven't explained it to us. Minister, Mr Palacín, transparency is what we need. I do not know whether you are working for this country or just to meet the needs of Mr Sánchez, who needs to extend the legislature like a gum, and for that you help bring to this Congress uncertainties, contradictory messages and measures that attack economic growth and job creation, such as the General Budgets of the State, new taxes or increases in social contributions. And the consequence is the continued decline in growth estimates by the Government and by analysts and European and global institutions, and the slowdown in job creation and investment. They're putting our country at risk, and everything for the president to keep traveling in the Falcon. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, it took Spain many months between 2012 and 2013 to regain confidence and credibility, we cannot destroy them again. Recapacitate and act. Stop thinking about Mr Sánchez and think about the Spanish and the future of this country. I already know that he appointed you, but you swore or promised for your conscience and honor faithfully to fulfill your duties as ministers of economy and enterprise, and of finance, of Spain, not of the economy, of the company or of Mr Sánchez's estate. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 27/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, BY WHICH DETERMINED MEASURES IN TRIBUTARY AND CATASTRAL MATTERS ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u50	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 27/2018 of 28 December, which adopts certain measures in tax and cadastral matters. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I intervene for the second time, on this occasion to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 27/2018 of 28 December, a decree-law extending and approving various measures in tax and cadastral matters under the provisions of Article 149.1 of the Constitution, which confers on the State - as you will recall - exclusive jurisdiction over general finance. This is, as you know, a need for an extension situation to adjust fiscal measures that require regulation as long as the General State Budgets are not approved. The majority would be detrimental to citizenship in the event of a decline, as well as other measures that resolve flagrant discrimination in some groups. I'm gonna try to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law which I submit to this validation extends for the 2019 tax period the billing limits on module taxation on the income tax of individuals. This means that self-employed workers cannot tax on the objective estimation method when the total activity exceeds EUR 250 000 or when the turnover to other employers or professionals exceeds EUR 125 000. But the legislation in force provides that this year these limits should be reduced, so that they would be set at EUR 150 000 and EUR 75 000 respectively. In this way, with this regulation included in the Royal Decree-Law, the exclusion limits that would have changed on 1 January in the event that this Decree-Law of extension had not been passed remain unchanged - i.e. they are not changed. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, self-employed persons who purchase goods and services up to EUR 250 000 may remain in the module system when it was originally envisaged that this limit would be reduced to EUR 150 000 in 2019. In addition to this, the Royal Decree also extends for this 2019 tax period the limits for the application of the simplified regime and the special regime for agriculture, livestock and fisheries in value added tax. It also provides for the extension of the capital tax for the 2019 financial year. In the case of corporate tax, the changes introduced by this Royal Decree give regulatory capacity to Circular 4/2017 of the Banco de España, on rules of public and reserved financial information and models of financial state of credit institutions. The circular I am commenting on aims to adapt the accounting system of Spanish credit institutions to changes in the European accounting system resulting from the adoption of two new international financial reporting standards. The Royal Decree also provides for the updating of cadastral values upwards or downwards by applying coefficients as set out in article 32.2 of the consolidated text of the Real Estate Disaster Act. As you know, this update has an immediate impact on property tax. As you know, this measure is approved as a result of the budgetary extension which makes it necessary for these coefficients to be updated before 31 December 2018 by decree, as has been the case in the previous two years. The adoption of this measure contributes to strengthening municipal funding, fiscal consolidation and budgetary stability of local entities. In fact, update coefficients are planned for 1179 municipalities this year, with an aggregate average decrease of 1.92% of the cadastral value. A situation that is explained by the fact that there is a greater volume of buildings affected by coefficients on the lower side than on the higher side and that this decrease is also more accused. In order to implement this update of coefficients, it is necessary that at least five years have elapsed since the entry into force of the last collective valuation procedure, that there are also substantial and homogeneous differences within the municipality between market values and existing cadastral values and, lastly, that the municipal application is made within the set deadline. Another of the measures included in this rule is that of the commitments made by the Government with UEFA to host in our country the end of the UEFA 2019 Champions and the UEFA Euro 2020, which requires, as you know, the regulation of a specific tax regime, which appears in the royal decree-law. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that this commitment arises from the accession contract signed by the Government of Spain in 2014 so that these events can be held in our country. In addition to this, the list of priority sponsorship activities for 2019 is included. He told them at the outset that there were some measures necessary for the extension, on policy issues, but there was another introduced to save a situation of inequality that was being given in the maternity benefits of public employees. They recall that on 3 October the Supreme Court declared exemption from public maternity benefits in Social Security. The Government understood that these exemptions should also be extended to paternity benefits. However, there are groups that are not supported either by the Supreme's sentence or by the current regulation of the IRPF. I am talking to you about a part of public employees who are part of the so-called administrative mutualism and of professionals who are not part of the special social security scheme for self-employed workers, who receive maternity and paternity benefits from social security schemes. They are therefore collectives who are not in social security but who also have benefits for these reasons and to whom stricto sensu could not be applied, according to the legal literality at the moment, this deduction. This is - and I can agree with this - a situation of discrimination that is hardly justifiable to which the Decree-Law gives a solution by extending the exemption from these maternity and paternity benefits to both groups to the limit of the maximum benefit that Social Security recognizes for this purpose. The exemption extends to previous non-prescribed years, so those who have taxed the IRPF for this reason may apply for the corresponding refund. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, all of these are necessary and urgent measures because of the consequences of this change in legislation, which would result from the extension if this decree-law had not been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about affected groups such as the self-employed, the parents, the mothers or the group of actors behind this extension decree-law. Therefore, I would like to appeal to your sense of responsibility not only to validate this decree-law, but also, to the extent possible, to move forward in the processing of the State's General Budgets so that some issues that are gathered here succinctly can be developed in a more regulated, more developed way in the Budgets Act itself, as set out in the current rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke first of all at the position-setting session of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as in the two previous royal decrees, Coalition Canaria will support this royal decree because we believe that certain points, such as the extension of the exemption from the IRPF declared by the Supreme Court for maternity benefits paid by Social Security, are timely and urgent. It is also appropriate to extend the transitional period from 2016 for the limits of the IRPF and VAT for special and simplified objective estimation schemes and for agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Moreover, the Government of the Canary Islands, in the budgets approved by the Parliament of the Canary Islands, has already carried out this enlargement in the new Budget Act. With regard to the amendment of the company tax to introduce the effect of a circular from the Banco de España, which in turn transfers changes in accounting to credit institutions, it seems absolutely essential to us. As you know, I chair the Committee of Inquiry into the financial crisis and among the proposals that have emerged from that Commission and from what was discussed was this matter. As far as property tax is concerned, we believe that this is a normal course of action. Although we do not consider the technique very good, it does not impose anything new and, therefore, it is not inconvenient. At the time of approval of the cadastral update coefficients and the establishment of extensions for the imposition of IBI tax rates, the extension of the power of local entities and the proximity of the elections seem to be appropriate measures on the part of the Government. The rest of the issues do not really affect the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands - that of UEFA, that of UEFA Euro - and that is the usual thing. Therefore, on the part of Coalition Canaria there is no inconvenience for this royal decreeley to be validated today and that it does not have processing as a bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u54	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u55	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, we are going to vote in favour - then I am going to make a reflection - and I wish you better luck than you have had this morning with the validation of these royal decrees, and you will not be able to blame the perfids of independence. There is a reflection that we wanted to do to them and that I have already done other times from this rostrum. In a situation of insufficient support for the Government - to put it quite bucolically - it is incomprehensible that they are passing royal decrees and not consulting them with anyone. That does not generate stability or seriousness, because these royal decrees are in force and there will be someone who has done legal business with them, but after they cease to be in force, and that does not give a serious image. You can blame that on the parliamentary groups, but the reality is that it is the responsibility of the Government. I would therefore like to give you this reflection from the rostrum, although I say to you that we too are going to vote in favour of this royal decree. Although I do not want to go into another debate, this is also the finding that the flag you take out of 'adopting the budgets so that certain measures will come into force because, if not, these measures are not possible', is not true and is demonstrated today by this and other real decrees, because there are measures that can be adopted independently of the budgets. If there are no budgets - we will see that over the next few days -, surely, if the Government continues, they will see that some of the budget measures will be incorporated by royal decrees. All I ask of you is that before you bring the royal decrees at least consult them with those you think can be your potential partners in the matter; if not, we are giving an image - all, but essentially your Government - very little edifying. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u56	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, you have the floor, Mr De la Torre Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u57	Madam President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings here the validation of the Royal Decree Law 27/2018 and the Minister of Finance has not been deprived of asking for support for the State's General Budgets. In fact, on Sundays, of course on television, because the Committee on Budgets finds it a bit more difficult to come, it did not rule out that Citizens could support Mr Sánchez's 2018 accounts. And I say to you that no, that we will vote against the budgets - I will clarify the doubts, even if it does not seem right now that Mrs Montero is taking care of it - and that we will present an amendment as a whole. We will do so because they are bad for the economy and because, unlike them, we do consider that the year is twelve months old and, therefore, VAT revenues cannot be charged from thirteen months to twelve months because that is an elementary fraud to accounting. Therefore, budgets that are a fraud and that are bad for the economy we will vote against. [[Applauds]] That said, twenty-six decree-laws in seven months. This is the twenty-ninth of 2018, with a cluster of unrelated things and without us knowing what this government plays on tax issues. For example, they say they want to raise taxes on banks. That's right, when it comes We can here with a proposal to increase taxes on banks, the Socialist Party abstains. And what do we find here? That when financial instruments have to be charged to a reserve account and, in accordance with corporate tax rules, banks have to tax, we give them three years to pay what they have to pay, but at the same time in the budgets the minimum corporate tax rate is raised to 18%. What are we playing at? This government has two rather surprising things in this same decree-law. On the one hand, it extends the property tax, which is a sluggish technique and is a tax as a little out of date and, on the other hand, through the catastrophe it seeks - and I quote in text - to contribute to strengthening municipal financing, fiscal consolidation and budgetary stability. Translation: that the Spaniards, the neighbors of any municipality, pay more taxes because these are the Spanish on foot, but at the same time the gentleman who comes from outside to UEFA has to have exemption. The UEFA organisation itself, the teams and footballers of the Champions League, who make little money, must have a tax amnesty in advance, that is the tax regime that the Minister says these gentlemen must have. I mean, by the way, it's not that the Sánchez government wants to raise taxes, no, what it brings here today is for the common of mortals disaster and rising taxes, to the gentleman who has a flat anywhere in Spain. That's right, then come the municipalities of change and their mayors, who come a time when you don't know what they're called, if they're from Podemos, More Madrid, less Europe - in short, find out what the coalition they have - and say no, that they don't raise taxes; no, they're up by disaster the government of Sánchez by facilitating their work. But at the same time what brings us here? That's right, for the UEFA gentlemen a tax amnesty in advance. Therefore, it is a decree-law that we cannot support and that we are going to ask to be treated as a bill because it has rules no longer with which we do not agree the Citizens Parliamentary Group, but ask you on the street whether the reasonable way to impose taxes is this and anyone with two fingers in front will tell you that this is not a reasonable way to impose taxes. This fiscal appetizer that the Government brings to the budgets is inextricable, not square. We look forward to knowing what we are going to do.We can, that is, whether we can agree, for example, with these tax exemptions to multimillionaire footballers and UEFA, or whether the People's Party is also in agreement with this decree-law that raises taxes to the common mortals or extends the property tax. In other words, we will see the real position of the parties vis-à-vis the fiscal policy brought to us by this Government. We don't agree with the background and the way we're going to talk about it. In other words, the minister, for example, has no interest in listening to us and does not appear before this House. It's not that they don't pick up the phone anymore, it's that I just understand that they don't because what they bring us isn't presentable. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u58	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u59	Thank you, President. Today, the government brings us here a royal decree that passed on December 27th that looks a lot like what we in Asturias know as the revolt of Reyes; that is, a bag where sweets come of very different types, which can include from dustbins to royalties. We say this looks like a revolt from Reyes because it brings us here seven different measures, ranging from the exemption of the IRPF to maternity and paternity leave to a special tax regime for the end of the Champions. The riots may be very good for the King's ride, but I don't think they're a good legislative technique, because one can like the gominolas but not the dustbins. Therefore, we anticipate that we will ask you to proceed as a bill to work on it as appropriate. First, on the tax exemption from the IRPF for maternity and paternity benefits, this regulatory change is due to the Supreme Court's judgment of October 2018, whereby public maternity and paternity benefits received from Social Security in the future should be exempted. This royal decree gives a solution to this situation of legal vacuum generated by the previous sentence and makes the permits not have to be taxed, something that will benefit hundreds of thousands of new families, that will also benefit from the increase of five to eight weeks that are included in these General Budgets of the State, of which Citizens seem not to want to talk or, at best, that part of the decree has passed them by long. The Government must now also comply with and accept the wording of the permit proposal that we have drawn up and agreed with them in the budget agreement, which is also proposed by civil society platforms, such as PPiiNA. Another measure that includes this revolt is the extension of the capital tax for 2019. This measure has to be approved every year since 2012, because in 2008 President Zapatero had the brilliant idea of abolishing the property tax, because since he did not see any crisis coming, he also did not see the need to increase income to finance the welfare state. Since it has been extended, this tax has been collected in the order of EUR 1 billion from large fortunes in order to be able to finance basic public services and the welfare state, except in communities such as Madrid, which they do is to increase it to 100 percent to cause fiscal dumping, which harms the rest of communities. This extension is particularly important because the budget agreement includes this 1 % increase for the large assets, which have more than 10 million, which will allow for an increase of EUR 600 million in the collection to finance health and education. This is something that Citizens didn't want to talk about either. A change in corporate tax is also included to adapt the accounting regime of credit institutions. This is something that we like less, but that we will modify within the process as a bill. We also believe that the government could have used it to bring in that minimum 15% of big companies and to put an end to the tax privileges that big corporations have in our country. Also included in the Royal Decree are the coefficients for updating the cadastral values of urban buildings for 2019. This is something we believe needs to be done by law and not extended from year to year. We also want to use this moment to convey a message from the municipalities, especially the municipalities of change, which are not too happy with you because you have not yet noticed too much the change from Montoro to Montero, because the rule of expenditure is still not repealed and municipal autonomy is not respected. [[Applauds]] So we ask you to take this into account so that you can notice that change and end the legacy left to us by the People's Party Government in this matter. This revolt also includes another measure that we like less, such as the modification of the tax regime for UEFA in view of the celebration of the Champions. It is not that we have any problems with football, although, personally, the second rather than the first, for the time being, because I am an Asturian, but we believe that this type of fiscal privilege measure is not the line on which the government has to work. We believe that these events, which can generate economic activity, especially of people with high purchasing power, are an opportunity to increase the income that will finance the welfare state. In short, you have to stop practicing the bad practices of the People's Party in legislative matters and not bring in these royal omnibus decrees, because, if not, one day you will get some disgust here, in Parliament, when you do not get ahead. They are already going to receive some bad news today with the royal decrees they bring, so I recommend that you take note of it, that you take off the phone, as my partner told you a moment ago, to negotiate before approving the royal decrees, so that you can come here and really approve them. Of course, the path you are taking with the royal decrees we believe is not the right one and we recommend that you rectify it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u60	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has given strong arguments that at the end of December the Government decided to approve in an extraordinary and urgent manner each and every one of the tax and cadastral measures that includes this royal decree-law. It is clear that with these measures the Government has responded to several economic and social needs of our country that required legislative changes that could not be delayed in time and that should be approved before the end of 2018, arguments that therefore justify the validation of this royal decree-law. We in the Socialist Group would like to emphasise some issues that support the vote in favour of this validation. Firstly, we would like to highlight, given its importance in qualitative terms, as a step forward in consolidating the social rights of workers, the relevant legislative amendments to give effect to the exemption in the income tax of natural persons from maternity benefits and also from paternity benefits received by Social Security, because they are of the same nature and regulatory regime. Beneficiary contributors are also public and professional employees specified in the decree who do not receive such benefits but receive equivalent remuneration for the same purpose. This avoids, ladies and gentlemen, possible discrimination in tax treatment in the same situations and with the same limits. It is also ensured that the amount paid for these benefits is refunded in non-prescribed periods, which is precisely why these measures were taken before the end of the year. We are therefore faced with measures that address the need to ensure non-discrimination, strengthen the legal security of taxpayers and demonstrate the Government's determined commitment to promoting and facilitating the reconciliation of family life. Without a doubt, these amendments give a good response to more than one million mothers and fathers following the Supreme Court's ruling of October 3, 2018; reasons, ladies and gentlemen, more than enough to vote in favour of today's validation of the royal decree. Secondly, we would like to draw attention to the fact that this royal decree-law is a consequence of the extension of the 2018 budgets, and to the extension of the budgets - which I would like to remind you that they were drawn up by the People's Party and that it had no problem in supporting the Citizens' Party - it was appropriate to adapt certain tax rules to the new budgetary situation, so it helps to strengthen the financing of the local authorities with the approval of the coefficients for updating the cadastral values, in the same way that was done last year, giving response in this exercise to 1179 municipalities that had requested it. Mr. De la Torre, was this measure presentable last year and this year is not? An additional time is given to make it easier for self-employed people to adapt to a future exit from the IRPF objective and simplified VAT estimation scheme, as if there had not been such an extension, their formal and billing obligations would be significantly increased. A measure which, if not approved by the Government in December, could have affected more than 50 000 companies. Last year was already done, was this measure presentable and this year is not? I would also like to stress that, as I said, what is being done is to extend the limits that have been in force in 2018 and that you have also defended. It includes the list of priority sponsorship activities for 2019 to give legal and de facto certainty to the tacit extension of the 2018 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreements entered into by the Government of Spain with UEFA to host in our country the venue of future events organized by the association are also being implemented, which requires the regulation of a specific tax system. I would like to recall that, by agreement of the Council of Ministers of 2 June 2017, at the time when the candidatures were submitted, the Government committed itself to these guarantees, so I do not understand that the Citizens' Group, which has always supported the People's Party Government over the past few years, is now coming out with these issues. Finally, the validity of the property tax is extended on a temporary basis, which, ladies and gentlemen, is not a new measure either. This is a measure that the People's Party has been extending year after year in the budgets and that was also included in the 2018 budgets prepared by the People's Party and approved by the Citizens' Group. Therefore, by extending the general budgets for 2018, it is more than justified to extend the temporary validity of the tax, especially because it is a measure with a significant economic significance for the autonomous communities and which according to the latest available data would amount to more than EUR 1 billion of income for all the autonomous administrations and would contribute to financing health, education and social care. If the tax is not extended, how could the Autonomous Communities compensate for the loss of these revenues? Please let me know. If the People's and Citizens' Party has been extending the validity of this tax in the budgets year after year, despite its common manifestations and ideological positions contrary to the validity of the tax, what would justify their opposition to the extension right now? In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to ask you to take responsibility and not to put the partisan interests before the generals. This royal decree contains measures with economic and social repercussions that are already in force. We can understand that there are measures they like more or less, but what would not be understood in terms of responsibility would be the vote against their validation. Validation is timely, reasonable and essential to ensure the legal security of many taxpayers, to improve municipal financing of many municipalities and to guarantee income to contribute to the financing of the State of social welfare. Be responsible, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u62	Thank you very much. Mr De Arriba Sánchez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, last June, with the advent of Mr Sánchez, we were announced a new era, the era of politics. We were told: Let's do politics. It's time for dialogue. The new era of participatory democracy. The arrival of Mr Sánchez meant that Parliament - the parliamentary debate - was to be the centre of our political life, although, as I say, that sounds little by little, almost better to say that Parliament was to be the centre of the universe. Ladies and gentlemen, seven months later you will understand perfectly if I conclude the description of this new era of Mr Sánchez by stating that hare runs through the sea. Just seven months later, what is left of the new era of democracy and parliamentaryism that was announced to us with the advent of Mr Sánchez? What is left of what he said to us: I intend to give Parliament the centrality it deserves and to limit the use of the decree-law? This one we are debating now is the third royal decree-law of this plenary. Today the Government has brought no more than eight royal decree-laws. In these seven months alone they have already submitted twenty-six decree-laws. By the same path that they bring, that is, at this rate, in two years - if, as it is committed, the legislature exhausts Mr Sánchez - they will have approved eighty-nine royal decrees-laws. That is, more in two years than in any parliament of democracy; even more than the eighty-five of the Sixth Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-six royal decrees not to debate in the new era of participatory democracy and parliamentarianism, and you, Mrs Montero, as minister of the new era take the palm because you have presented six royal decree-laws not to debate, and you have also presented general budgets not to debate either, which is already the height of this new era. It has put forward budgets to go but not to discuss them because its separatist partners, the confluences of the far left and the florets do not care what you paint in the budgets, require questions outside the budgets. And the danger you have is that the General Budgets of the State are not to debate and yet start negotiating with your partners what you should not even negotiate. Make the royal decrees you consider, Mrs Montero, but negotiate on how to dismember Spain, no; negotiate on how to fragment Spain, no, minister, on that, no. [[Applauds]] That in this royal decree-law that they bring here today in order not to debate include everything, mixing all kinds of tax and catastrophic measures is alarming, but it is more alarming that, while we avoid with decrees the needs of the Spaniards, their different realities are obvious by the only ambition to remain in power. Everything sounds hollow in the government's speech, insecurity, whether we're in a new era or not - we're not. Everything, as I say to you, sounds hollow, unrelenting because the real problem of sanchism is its lack of credibility. The real face, the one that hides behind grandiloquence, is to say whatever it is, one thing and its opposite, so as to preserve the armchair, the Falcon and whatever it takes, at whatever price it is. The absolute lack of credibility permeates all orders of action of the Government, and Mr Sánchez's aversion to debate and contrasting views is demonstrated by twenty-six royal decree-laws in seven months, with the expectation that to endure it will continue on the same path. It is logical because when one acts like this, saying one thing and its opposite, disguised the truth with the sole objective of preserving power, he surrounds those who equally lack the truth to preserve power, whether separatist or extreme left, who when it comes to occupying power forget people. When the lack of truth is established as a standard of conduct the debate is rejected because confronting the truth, contrasting it, is completely impossible for those who simply intend to impose their will to survive in La Moncloa until 2020. This is the substance of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, the government's lack of credibility, beyond adjustments in tax measures, adjustments in catastrophic measures, its comings and goings on the modules after having shouted so much. There is also the question of the extension of the property tax, which, instead of extending it now, with record collection, should be abolished, as proposed by the People's Party. Beyond all that which regulates this royal decree-law, the substance of the matter is the proceeding incompatible with Mr Sánchez's truth. That is why we cannot support this royal decree-law, that is why and because before real decree-laws to not debate, before general budgets to walk and not debate, before grandiose speeches and without substance, what is imperative for the Spaniards is that general elections be called, so that after this parenthesis a new era is opened - then yes - in which the new government attends to the truth and the reasons of the Spaniards, instead of orillating them. More than real decree-laws and budgets not to debate, Mrs Montero, what they have to do is call general elections. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u64	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 23/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, OF TRANSPOSITION OF GUIDELINES IN MARKS, RAIL TRANSPORT AND COMBINED TRAVEL AND VINCULAR TRAVEL SERVICES. [[File number 130/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u65	We proceed to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 23/2018, of 21 December, transposing directives on trademarks, rail transport and combined travel and related travel services. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I'm actually going to expose your lordships... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u67	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u68	... the Royal Decree-Law 23/2018, transposing directives on trademarks, rail transport and combined travel and related travel services. I would remind you that we are talking about directives which were published more than three years ago two of them and more than two years ago two of them, and it is therefore urgent to transpose them. The Government has had to make use of this normative tool in view of the seriousness of the consequences of the delay in this transposition, which can entail severe fines and economic consequences for our country, directives whose transposition deadline is imminent, and therefore the need for its transposition, as has been endorsed by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, to be incorporated immediately into our legal system, in order to avoid the initiation of an infringement procedure involving the imposition of a fine. The content of the actual Decree-Law submitted for validation is structured as follows: Title I, which includes the first Article, contains the amendments resulting from the transposition of Directive 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks; Title II includes the second and third Articles and reflects the amendments resulting from Directive 2012/34 of the European Union, of the Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area, as amended by Directive 2016/2370 of 14 December 2012; and Title III, with the fourth Article, containing the amendments resulting from the transposition of Directive 2015/2302 of the Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on combined travel and related travel services, amending Regulation No 2016/2004 and Directive 2011/83 of the European Union, repealing Council Directive 90/314 EC. As regards trade marks, the incorporation of Directive 2015/2436 requires the partial amendment of the Trade Marks Act and that it be in force on 14 January 2019. The initial implementation tool was a bill under the ordinary legislative procedure. The preliminary draft law implementing this directive was submitted to the Council of Ministers' first-round report on 20 July 2018. It is clear that, if this procedure is followed, even if the urgent procedure is used, the transposition deadline could not be met, seriously harming the image of the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office before the EU Intellectual Property Office, in addition to causing a substantial economic sanction to be imposed on Spain. As far as brands are concerned, these are the novelties that it incorporates, very briefly I will describe it. Legitimacy is recognized to obtain registration of trade marks or trade names to any natural or legal person regardless of nationality or residence or to enjoy the benefits of certain international conventions, including public-law entities. The requirement that the distinctive sign be capable of graphic representation shall be deleted. It is only required that it be capable of representation in the Register of Marks by any means. The absolute prohibitions, second, signs that cannot be registered, undergo two changes. First, the prohibitions on registration of trade marks referring to designations of origin and geographical indications, traditional wine names and traditional specialities guaranteed are systematized, with reference to its specific EU or national regulatory rules. Secondly, signs which consist of or reproduce in their essential elements the name of an earlier plant variety are prohibited. The distinction between a well-known or renamed trademark or trade name disappears and only the renamed trademark or trade name category is envisaged. These signs will have enhanced protection. A trade mark may not be registered as a sign identical to or similar to an earlier trade mark, even where the products for which the later trade mark is applied for are not similar. With regard to the procedure, the legitimation of opposition to the registration of a trade mark is regulated in detail and procedures for its renewal are expedited. The rights conferred by the trade mark shall be specified. First, the effectiveness of the rights; secondly, the acts forming part of the holder's ius prohibition, enhanced protection of the renamed marks, prohibition of using the sign as a trade name or as a corporate name and use of the sign in comparative trade mark advertising contrary to the rule. Third, the proprietor of the trade mark may detain goods in transit within the European Union from third countries incorporating a trade mark equal to the infringer. Fourthly, exclusive licensees of trade marks may take action for infringement of the trade mark if the proprietor does not do so. The most important change in the law is the introduction of the new Title VI, nullity and lapse, which confers direct jurisdiction on the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office to declare the nullity or lapse of registered trademarks, without prejudice to the fact that its decisions may be challenged before the courts. Collective and warranty marks do not undergo substantial changes. For warranty marks the geographical origin is maintained as characteristic of the products or services. Community trade marks are now referred to as European Union trade marks. Any Union trade mark application shall be submitted only to the European Union Intellectual Property Office. As regards Title II, on rail transport, the European Union approved at the end of 2016 the so-called Fourth Railway Package in which it highlights the directive that is transposed through this royal decree. This directive should have been transposed into our legal order, as a top date, on December 25, 2018. The opening up to competition imposed by the directive seeks to create a single railway area in the European Union in order to establish a more efficient and user-oriented internal rail market. The opening should have been effective as from 1 January 2019, the date from which railway undertakings may apply for railway capacity to the infrastructure manager ADIF and ADIF AV, so that effective circulation can start from 14 December 2020. In addition, the two infringement files initiated by the European Commission against Spain by the incorrect transposition of Directive 2012/34 of the Single European Railway Area, which requires amendments to the existing Railway Sector Act, should be added to this directive. This royal decree-law gives effect to the law of the European Union, implementing Directive 2016/2370, so that actors competing on the railway market know and adapt to the new situation, solving the problems pointed out by the European Union in the infringement files and adapting our legal framework so that Renfe continues to provide services subject to public service obligations. The main changes introduced by the Royal Decree-Law, as far as rail transport is concerned, are as follows. Firstly, the liberalisation of the national rail passenger transport market imposed by the directive. I would like to make it clear that public service contracts covering the same route or alternative and jeopardising the economic balance of these contracts are excluded from this liberalisation. Secondly, the increase in ADIF's independence guarantee measures vis-à-vis railway undertakings in the new liberalisation scenario. Thirdly, it responds to the measures required by the Commission in the abovementioned infringement files. Fourthly, the National Commission on Markets and Competition is given new powers. It is therefore necessary to address this new regulation in order to comply with these requirements of the European Union and, to that end, this royal decree-law gives a complete solution, as it incorporates the requirements of the European Union and also satisfies that there is continuity in the provision of services subject to public service obligations. I would like to go on to describe the content of the Royal Decree-Law as regards this rail transport directive. Article 2 amends Law 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the Railway Sector and establishes, first of all, the right of railway undertakings to pick up and leave passengers at any station and, moreover, the right to open the market to all undertakings may be limited in the event that public service contracts cover the same route or alternative and the economic balance of contracts is jeopardised. Secondly, complementary requirements of the infrastructure manager's independence are introduced to ensure not only their complete organic separation from railway undertakings, but also to shield them from potential influences or conflicts of interest with them. Third, new measures are incorporated into Directive 2012, which should be made into the law-class rule, as required by the reasoned opinion of 15 June 2017, and it is therefore necessary to include the concepts of reasonable benefit and alternative itinerary. Fourthly, the letter of emplacement of 18 May 2018 is complied with. In order to correctly incorporate the 2012 Directive, the following issues, among others, are regulated in this Royal Decree: the requirement to register a railway undertaking's licence in a register is eliminated and the State Railway Safety Agency is obliged to communicate the decision on the licence without delay without it being possible to conclude that the licence has been rejected for the duration of the period without a decision having lapsed. Other important developments introduced by this second article are the following: The first transitional provision of Railway Law 38/2015 is amended, establishing the timetable for opening the free competition of rail passenger transport to apply from 1 January 2019, in time for access to the infrastructure at the service time starting on 14 December 2020. The concept of vertically integrated enterprise is introduced by the requirement of Directive 2016/2370, which requires strengthening the independence of the infrastructure manager but without changing the Spanish railway model - and this is very important - and is obliged to report on the prices and conditions of access to service facilities not managed by the infrastructure manager. The third article amends the Act establishing the National Commission on Markets and Competition in the following ways. Firstly, it can control the proper functioning of the railway sector on its own initiative; secondly, it increases the number of powers over which any complaint can take its decision and, thirdly, it can decide on its own initiative, where appropriate, appropriate measures to correct discrimination against candidates, market distortions or other undesirable situations on these markets. This Royal Decree-Law contains the only derogating provision referring to the FOM Order 1977/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the tendering procedure for the award of an enabling licence for the performance of rail passenger transport and also on rail passenger transport services with a priority tourist purpose. The sixth final provision of the Royal Decree refers to the first transitional provision of Law 38/2015 of the Railway Sector, which specifies the time limits for opening the free competition of rail passenger transport. If today this House and its ladies and gentlemen validate the text of the Royal Decree-Law, we will have taken an important step, so that we will have a railway regulation in line with European Union legislation and prepared to move forward in the European railway area, without prejudice to continuing to guarantee the provision of services subject to public service obligations, essential to ensure the connectivity of citizens and, therefore, social and territorial cohesion, and to ensure that Renfe continues to provide these services for a long time. Finally, and briefly, I will present to you the third amendment, which involves the transposition of Directive 2015/2302 on combined travel and related travel services. This directive should already be transposed into our legal system on 1 January 2019. Despite this, until 23 March 2018 the previous government did not approve the bill that intended to incorporate the directive into our domestic law and whose parliamentary handling by different avatars has been extended. In the meantime, the European Commission has initiated a formal infringement procedure against the Kingdom of Spain, and on 9 November 2018 it issued a reasoned opinion calling on our country to incorporate the directive into our domestic law before 7 January 2019. As you know, the consequence of failing to respond satisfactorily to the Commission's request through the effective transposition of the directive is the initiation of litigation before the Court of Justice and the imposition of an important economic penalty. The European Union Directive 2015/2302 of 25 November 2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the harmonisation of maximum levels to alleviate the legal fragmentation which it represents and which contained the previous Directive 90/314/EEC and which in the impact assessment it was found that it entailed high costs for economic operators and did not facilitate harmonious development in their cross-border activities and also limited consumer choices. In this way, efforts have been made to bridge the significant divergences in national standards. An important element is that the subject protected from the norm becomes the traveller, a concept that is broader than that of the consumer, and the scope of the combined concept of travel is broadened, giving way to many travel products that were in legal indefinition and that were not clearly covered by the existing regulation. The pre-contractual information of the traveller and its binding nature, which previously focused on the requirements to be met by the combined travel brochures and programmes, is strengthened. With the advent of the digital age the online market acquires a previously non-existent importance that makes it necessary to extend the pre-information requirements to other forms of contracting, in turn giving them a binding character. With regard to combined travel and possible modifications thereto, it is envisaged that the organisers may unilaterally modify the contract, provided that they have reserved this right in the contract, that the changes are significant and that the traveller has been informed clearly, comprehensiblely and prominently of a durable medium. For its part, travellers shall be entitled to terminate the contract when the proposed changes substantially alter the initial characteristics of the travel services, setting a period of fourteen calendar days for the reimbursement of any undue payment made by the traveller in the event of a resolution. The price of the combined journey may be increased only if this contract expressly specifies this possibility. Moreover, the increase is also conditional on the fulfilment of the obligation to inform the traveller of his right to a price reduction for the same reasons. If the price increase exceeds 8 % the traveller may terminate the contract within a reasonable time specified by the organiser. Another important element is the creation of a solidarity guarantee for organizers and retailers to respond to non-compliances resulting from the provision of contracted services, especially for the reimbursement of advance payments and, where appropriate, repatriation in the event of insolvency. In addition, following the mandate of Directive 2015 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015, the Royal Decree establishes the principle of mutual recognition of the different insolvency guarantee systems in the European Union, and for this purpose it is appropriate to regulate administrative cooperation in the field of information with the other Member States and with the European Commission, through the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, as a central point of contact. In the same vein, mutual recognition of protection against insolvency and administrative cooperation at the national level is regulated. A novel aspect that deserves to be highlighted - in addition to this - is the introduction of the concept of linked travel service in which the role of entrepreneurs is to provide travellers with face-to-face and online hiring of travel services, leading them to conclude contracts with different providers, including through connected booking processes. These services are an alternative business model to combined travel, so the Royal Decree-Law also sets out the obligations for these entrepreneurs; aspects that were so far unforeseeable and the consumer was in this unprotected aspect. Similarly, when certain services - such as tickets for concerts, sporting events or guided tours for example - are combined with a single combined travel service or other related travel services, they represent a proportion equal to or greater than 25 % of the value of the combined travel or related travel services. Circumstances that until now were not contemplated and in which the travelers were totally devoid. For the sake of the services of the House, for an error in reading, I have to say that in the case of this directive the date on which it should be transposed is 1 January 2018. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decree - which I understand has proved to be heavy, because it contains so many different subjects - we intend to transfer to our legislation strictly matters which, if not transposed into our legal order, would be the subject of sanctions on the part of the European Commission, and through this decision we seek to ensure that it is immediately incorporated into our legal order. Independently, as you know, some of these matters are being dealt with as a draft law, and once they are completed, I have no doubt that they will improve the content of the current royal decree, provided that the contents of the directive it seeks to transpose are respected. I'm sorry about the extension of the presentation. I hope that your ladies and gentlemen will be happy to ratify this royal decree. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u69	Thank you very much. The use of the counter turn has been requested by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I have the floor on behalf of your group, Mr Pascual Peña.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u70	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Carcedo, I'm not leasing the profit to you here today, because you eat a brown that corresponds to Mr. Ábalos. You are going to go into history today by putting the wink at the process of transferring the largest public capital in the history of democracy, 51 billion euros that we have spent over the past twenty-five years, which put themselves at the service of private companies - German, French and Spanish - working and benefiting, and it does so by threatening us with fines. We are going to play 51 billion, talking about brands and combined travel, and with the Minister of Development hiding behind you. In that regard, I express my solidarity with you for eating this brown. It is also going to pass into history by a very curious thing: it is going to be the socialist prime minister who defends a royal decree written by a minister of the People's Party; this one here, which was written a year ago. [[shows a document]] The forty-two articles that Mr de la Serna wrote are the ones that you have come to defend today in this House. You go into history, Mrs Carcedo, because you are the socialist prime minister who defends a decree of the People's Party, which of course you will support, of course, because the Socialist Party and the People's Party when it comes to privatization and liberalisation agree. [[Applauds]] You bring us here a spur that, I insist, mixes travel combined with brands, with the future of 25 000 jobs, with the future of a network of 51 billion euros - which is said to be soon - and with the future of the Spanish railway sector, and remains so wide. I insist, what is happening is that Mr Ábalos is ashamed to come up to this rostrum to defend this, and that is why he has chosen not to even appear in the House. This is the last part of a break-up process that began 20 years ago. You already knew twenty years ago, both the governments of the Socialist Party and the governments of the People's Party, that the railway sector would eventually be liberalised. They knew this because they participated in the Transport White Paper; they knew this because they participated in the first railway package of 2001, in 2004, in 2007 and finally in 2016. In spite of that, instead of doing like other countries, such as Germany, which opted for a rationalisation of investments and which invested a quarter of what Spain invested in high speed, you dedicated yourselves to drawing inefficient and unnecessary lines, as the Court of Auditors of the European Union itself has pointed out on numerous occasions, a network that certainly moves six times less travellers than the German network, because it was not intended to move travelers, but to move concrete. That is what you have done over the past twenty years. But the betrayal of the public service is not to have invested what should not have been invested, the betrayal is that you did it thinking of a day like today, liberalizing it and handing it over to the highest bidder. Moreover, you tell me that we have to support this directive because there is no other directive, because we have to transpose European law, but it turns out that Mr Macron, who is not a saint of my devotion, a liberal gentleman to whom the citizens support him, has transposed this same directive, with Law 515/2018, in a radically different way than you choose. You have chosen to copy Mr. De la Serna instead of Mr. Macron. Among the two evils at least they could have chosen the French transposition. The French transposition, for example, says things like that the calculation of infrastructure charges will take account in particular of the cost of the infrastructure. The French transposition states, for example, that as long as the total cost of the network is not covered by SNCF, i.e. ADIF, it will retain the benefit of productivity gains. What the French transposition is saying is that if 51 billion public euros have been spent, the returns of that 51 billion public euros have to remain in the public sector. You don't mention this, you give it to the private. [[Applauds]] By the way, it also says in the French transposition that public jobs are armored, and that if a private company stays on a public journey it will have to take on the workers. There is not a single word about the 25 000 workers who can stay on the street. Madam Minister, what a shame! [[Applauds]] The French transposition and the directive itself speak of the social role of transport, and it is a socialist minister - a socialist minister - who erases the social role of rail transport from transposition. A socialist minister wiping out the social function of transport! I think what is shown here today is that when you touch the things of eating - in quotes - the People's Party and the Socialist Party choose to copy each other. I insist: copy. There are forty-two articles copied one by one. I'm lying, you've made it worse. You have done things that Mr. De la Serna did not dare to do. It's really a thing worth mentioning. You have put the State Railway Safety Agency at the same level as the National Commission on Markets and Competition: safety at the same level as the market. These are things that Mr. De la Serna didn't dare do. You introduce an additional sixteenth provision, which you have not mentioned, and which says that the EUR 3 billion that we are going to spend now on buying freight trains and traffic trains will not go to improve the service to Extremadura, but will necessarily go to be rented by private companies. We will spend EUR 3 billion of public money so that private companies can have a free-priced train and profit from those resources. It is a real shame, Minister, that you introduce such measures. You introduce another that says ADIF is obliged to give in to grooves even when it doesn't have any additional space on the network; that's what they say in article 43. These are things that not even the People's Party dared to do. Minister, the last time I went up to this rostrum and spoke with Mr Ábalos, I met a dialogue minister who was listening. But, of course, there was nothing to vote on that day. Today, when it comes to voting, they do not stand on the side of the 25 000 workers, they do not stand on the side of the railway sector, they do not stand on the side of the public service, they do not stand on the side of the future of the 51 billion euros that will go to thicken the coffers of a few rather than the benefit of all. At this moment you agree with the People's Party. You, instead of virtuous competition, inaugurate the necessary collaboration with the People's Party. Madam Minister, you are going to go into history as the graveyard of the public rail transport service in Spain. Correct and return the brown to Mr. Ábalos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u71	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mrs Oramas GonzálezMoro, is taking part in the position-setting session from the seat. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I speak from the seat to tell the minister that we will support this decree. Our concern is not the fines, but our concern in the Canary Islands is the directive on tourism that had to have been adopted since 1 January 2018, in which not only guarantees come for consumers, but also for the companies that operate. They are introduced by new technologies and new reservation systems, because the rights of citizens and so many small businesses that are sometimes affected by fraud or demand attempts as we have lived in the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands were not covered. That is why we believe that it is urgent to transpose this directive and that it is also appropriate. That's why we're going to support validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi spoke for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the truth is that this plenary, which had to be a validation plenary of eight royal decrees, is bringing many new developments, are pioneers in many things. Now Mr.Sergio Pascual told you that you were a pioneer in being the prime minister of a government that approves or defends a project of another government. [[The Lord]] I believe that you are a pioneer because I believe that you are the European Union's Prime Minister for Health and Consumer Affairs who advocates the transposition of a directive in the field of rail services and another directive in the field of trade marks. This is the result of this strange situation of concentrating transpositions of directives from different fields into a single royal decree. Today we discussed eight royal decrees and with the subjects that could have been perfectly twelve or thirteen royal decrees. Today you too have made history, I believe it is the first time that in one morning two royal decree-laws fall to a government, and it is the fruit of what I have told you before. Despite that we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree and we are going to request the processing as a bill, because as you said are some bills that were already in force. We had already tabled amendments to some of them. In the area of rail services, we believe that liberalisation of the provision of short-distance, close and medium-distance passenger transport services can be positive. In any case from our point of view, we should make corrections, and in the field of combined travel exactly the same. Our group will therefore vote in favour of validation, but we will ask for processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u76	Good morning again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. My group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law without prejudice to the fact that it will also request its processing as a bill. In essence, I would say to you that this royal decree-law is preventive, precautionary, of avoiding the risks of fines, and it is as a result that the transposition of directives, whose deadline has expired or is near to expire, is also linked to a change in the Commission's view of the new interpretation it has given to Article 260.3 of the founding Treaty of the European Union, since now - and I say so - it is going to systematically request the lump sum, which implies or implies that, even if that infringement is remedied by the transposition of the directive in the course of an infringement procedure, the Commission will no longer give up its remedy for that reason alone. That is to say, we are in the approach of: we are going to transpose as soon as possible in order to avoid precisely the imposition of fines on the State. Furthermore, because the Commission itself has warned that it will not apply the practice of condoning such fines in procedures whose letter of formal notice is prior to the publication of such a communication in the official Journal of the European Union. That is to say, even when transposition is started, once the deadline has expired, this will not mean the avoidance of fines whose proceedings have begun. In this sense we are proposed three areas of action, which, as has already been pointed out by other speakers, of course, what they are is not congruent or coherent with one another, but which involve the assumption in the same real decree-law of absolutely different matters. The first is the Trademark Directive 2015/2436, and we accept its need and believe that some amendments should be made through amendments, so we also believe that it needs to be treated as a draft law. Thus, among other things, certain definitions and their consequences are controversial and need to be clarified, the accuracy of certain aspects of the procedure, also those relating to the declaration of expiry or invalidity of a mark, or even that relating to the jurisdiction competent to hear appeals against the decisions of the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office, understanding that the commercial jurisdiction may also be suitable for that purpose. Furthermore, there is Directive 2012/34, as amended by Directive 2016/2370, establishing the European railway area. Apart from some very interesting considerations which have been made by Mr Pascual, Member of Parliament for Podemos, who has intervened previously, the Basque Government has also taken a position, understanding the need to request its processing as a draft law, since it needs to be amended - we point out - because some of the extremes are in need of precision and clarification, especially those relating to border connections or sections of connection between state and autonomous networks, which do not provide for the same exception of full compliance with certain regulations, the RCGI, which is the one relating to certificates of safety, railway movement of personnel and material, and which is precisely the case for this entanglement between networks of different titles. Finally, we have the directive on combined travel and related travel services. On this matter - as you have reported - there is already a bill in process. In addition, my group had tabled various amendments. Some have already been included in the text of the Government's translation, but others have not, such as those relating to the official status of co-official languages at some sites, or even those relating to respect for article 28 of the statute of autonomy, for autonomous powers in the field of consumer protection. Madam Minister, I repeat that my group is going to vote in favour. It will also request its processing as a bill, as a result of these amendments that we consider appropriate. However, we will continue to talk for further approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u78	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. What we're discussing today could have a title. I suggest 'The trunk of lost directives' or rather 'Transpose late and bad EU directives'. Three directives, of 2015, 2012 and 2016, counterclock and without more urgent need than prevent a fine. A royal decree-law omnibus that forces parliamentary groups to the known dilemma of lentils. Well, don't let him stay for us. But one of the ingredients has been choked on us: the issue of railways. That is why we will abstain, in the hope that, with the bill, we will be able to agree. Meanwhile Minister Borrell goes around the world lying about October 1st and chasing the legitimate delegations of the Generalitat abroad; the same person who has not acknowledged that he lied in this House for a false spit. [[Applauds]] It is a problem, Government of Spain, of credibility to keep this minister. We could discuss other issues here, but I will focus, in my time, on the subject of brands. Despite improvements in registration, problems will persist, because we analyze the consequences and forget the causes. Spain registered in 2018 four thousand patents less. The life of the researcher is a race of obstacles, especially in Spain. Getting a job in a lab and making a discovery is just the beginning of a spiral. Headbreakers come after having achieved scientific success. To sell his invention it is more than usual for the professional to be forced to become an entrepreneur, coated with the term entrepreneur, which is much cooler, and in the worst case even in commercial. What's your sales catalog? Patents, marks. The community criticizes the lack of commitment of research centres to their staff and to the commercialization of the technology they develop. There are no figures, because it is not compulsory to register them, but sources in the sector ensure that only 9 to 10 % of Spanish public science is on the market. In Spain, new technologies need to be enhanced with the fundamental idea that they reach SMEs. In 2016, more than 94% of the Spanish business fabric was made up of micro-enterprises, almost 4 points above the European average. I'm feeling deeply anti-European. That they make things up? Invent them. These are some words of Miguel de Unamuno, who wrote a hundred and ten years ago, in a controversial letter addressed to José Ortega and Gasset, a faithful defender of the Europeanization of Spain and of scientific and technological development. But it was not a bad day: after two months of inking this phrase, Unamuno again expressed his hostile attitude towards science in The Portico of the Temple, an essay in the form of a dialogue on European and American scientific advances, and thus said: 'Invent, then, they and we will take advantage of their inventions. I trust and hope that you will be convinced, as I am, that electric light - then newly invented - 'lights here as well as where it was invented'. Fortunately Ramón and Cajal or Giner de los Ríos complained that the cause of the case was a parasitic bourgeoisie of the State. What a disaster this model has left over the years, what a disaster these past years have been of the People's Government and poor Andalusia with its tripartite experiment! By a lot of flag, by a lot of 'a for them', they can't hide their past and their future bad government. We will not resort to the easy criticism of denouncing this atavic - it would be said genetic - 'inventing them', but we do reiterate the question of what this government intends to do and when to encourage or at least not stop entrepreneurship and innovation. Waiting for a real, comprehensive, omnibus decree-law on science and innovation here, you will find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u80	Thank you, President. Quite a cocktail decree you have brought us, minister, you have a little bit of everything: a little bit of markings, a little bit of trains, another little bit of travel and just a little bit of narrowing. We have little time and lots of material, so I'm going to be telegraphed. As far as trade marks are concerned, this decree completes the transposition of Directive 2015/2436, which basically seeks to approximate the laws of the Member States in the field of trade marks, and intends to do so - its decree - within the deadline, since it was due to expire on 14 January. From Citizens we certainly support this regulation, which involves a European legislative harmonisation that facilitates the functioning of the internal market - we currently have a dual trademark registration system, trademarks can be registered throughout the Union or in the Member State(s) you want - and therefore harmonisation of this legislation is very important. Others want to lift barriers, we want to remove obstacles. To sum up, the amendments introduced by the decree make the registration process simpler and more practical, adapt to technological advances, provided that obviously the authorities and citizens can recognise the object of protection, clarify and reinforce the protection of designations of origin, and incorporate in our system the possibility of requesting, as the minister has said, the expiry and nullity of a trademark. By the way, there has recently been a rather controversial ruling on the Big Mac of the European Union Intellectual Property Office. However, they now have to develop the implementing regulation, which is currently unknown; we do not know anything about its content or when it will be adopted or when it could enter into force. On rail transport, in May the Commission asked Spain to correctly transpose EU rules on the single rail area, in particular Directive 2012/34. The most important thing in this respect is that national passenger transport is no longer a state monopoly. There is a market opening and free access to railway infrastructure in all States is guaranteed to all enterprises. In this sense, the truly innovative thing has been that the Minister of Health is presenting the liberalisation of the rail market, but she is. [[Applauds]] Let us remember the sequence: In 2003, Law 39/2003, of the Railway Sector, already started the liberalization of the transport of goods, then followed the international transport of passengers and now it is the turn of the national transport of passengers. 2020 is set for long distance and 2023 for public service obligations. It is precisely our greatest criticism of the decree that the timetable that European legislation allows for it should be kept to the maximum extent possible. It sets out 10 years of expansion of these PSOs. In any case, liberalization should not be frightened. Mr Pascual of Podemos has presented a kind of apocalyptic view of the disaster that this liberalization is going to entail. It must be made clear at the outset that in this case it is not the British model, in the sense that liberalisation includes infrastructure, which here remains state-owned, but that access to operators is guaranteed provided that they pay the fees and comply with the rules, and we have a very clear example very close in Italy. In Italy the liberalisation occurred in 2012, when it began to compete with Trenitalia - the equivalent of our Renfe - the company Italo, and in six years the balance is extraordinarily positive, Mr Pascual, having produced a huge increase of travelers, because in these apocalyptic scenarios of transport the users are always forgotten. From 38 million to 68 million travellers in five years; the number of passengers per kilometre has increased by 41%; there has been a 30% drop in prices, and as far as concerns about workers are concerned, I will tell you that Trenitalia, after all these increases, has increased its turnover. As I say, not only has it not disappeared, but it has grown. It is also important - the decree says so - to ensure the independence and neutrality of the infrastructure manager, which certainly affects the fixing of fees, an issue on which the European Union has already scolded us. The fixation should fully correspond to ADIF and has to deal with the CNMC. The presence of the regulator is essential to achieve a single railway space. This should include ensuring the impartiality of the infrastructure manager, monitoring and eliminating market distortions or discrimination, analysing possible State aid and opening cases and imposing sanctions. Finally, with regard to combined and linked travel, the Royal Decree is virtually identical to the draft law currently under way. There have been some minor changes, but in any case the amendments tabled by the group have not been included, so we will continue our discussion within the scope of this royal decree because they have already told us from the Socialist Party that it will be treated as a bill. In general, the Decree amends the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users on Combined and Associated Travel, as I have said, but, as you know, some of the precepts are not particularly peaceful in the sector, especially with regard to the system of guarantees, and could be redundant in some cases. In any case, as I say, this will be discussed in its handling as a bill, but we will support this validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u82	Thank you, President. After listening to the various speeches, I understand that in a decree of this kind, which simply consists in transposing European directives, it is very difficult for parliamentary spokesmen to get out of here or to take the applause of our Members. This certainly explains many of the speeches we have heard here today. I do not understand why the minister who is responsible for the users is in doubt that she is the one who defends such a decree and I will tell you why. Some understand infrastructure as concrete and steel, but socialists understand infrastructure as a service to users and the minister who has defended this decree-law here today is the minister responsible for consumption, responsible for defending users of these services. That is why we fully understand the reason for your intervention and the reason for your defence. As I said before, I believe that some spokesmen - especially my friend Sergio Pascual de Podemos - when they told them that they had to defend this decree, they thought how they were going to take the applause of their own simply by defending the transposition of a European directive, nothing more. It is not Mr Íñigo de la Serna's decree, it is a transposition of a European directive. I think when he was told that he had to make this intervention, he thought about how he would get the applause out of his group. And the answer was: by taking out phrases that could highlight the government and making it clear that this is a liberalizing decree, which in no case seeks to think about users or the railway system. You know that's not the case, it's a decree that had to be passed to transpose a European directive, just that. Moreover, he knows it for a reason, the Socialist Party when it decided to process this decree did so thinking of processing it as a bill. Every time we have spoken to each of the spokespersons - including Mr Pascual - they have been told that we believe that it can be an improved decree-law with the consensus of all; they have been told: we are going to discuss it, we are going to validate it, because the European Union is asking us to do so, and from there we are discussing what the railway system is. But if we can't validate it, Mr Pascual, we won't be able to discuss it, we won't be able to sit at a table and see how we improve it. Let me explain to you what the railway model of the Socialist Party is. The railway model of the Socialist Party is the one that thinks of citizens, the one that seeks to make all citizens feel the same. And I will recognize one thing: at this time, in this country and on the part of all parties there came a time when we did not give importance to the railway system. There was a time when the conventional lines were abandoned and we believed that the railway system had no future. Then came a second stage in which we believed that the most important thing was for everyone to have high speed, even though economic resources did not allow us all to have a reasonable high speed and in a reasonable time. And since I am an extremist and I cannot help but explain - as I have done on other occasions here - that we suffer a model in which the conventional train was abandoned, we are suffering the abandonment of many years and of a model that the extremists do not serve us and the socialists neither. That is why, in these budgets, we have considerably increased the number of conventional train tickets, because we believe that all citizens have to feel connected on an equal footing. To my land the high speed train will arrive thirty years after the first high speed line. Mr Pascual, do not teach us socialists about equality, do not teach us how we help with the railway system to make all Spaniards feel the same. I said this at the beginning and I repeat it again, I fully understand that defending a simple transposition of a European directive would not allow you to applaud your fellow Members. I can understand that, but I think we did what we had to do today. I thank the groups who were willing to hear that they are going to approve the validation of the decree-law and that they are going to allow us to sit down and talk about how it can be improved. We are the first who, when we brought this here, said that we were willing to dialogue, to consensus, to seek the measures. You rejected that possibility of dialogue to improve the text. Still, we will talk to all parties to improve something that we believe needs to help all citizens feel equal, with the best public services, with the best conditions and ensuring that this country is a country of citizens and not a country of territories. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u84	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I'll say it again for the fourth time. We shall debate today's fourth royal decree of the eight that make up this extraordinary plenary session. I therefore announce to you - also to the press, which seems to have not found out - that today we will see what we have never seen in democracy. We're going to have a plenary with eight royal decrees. What does this mean? Nothing more and nothing less, Minister, than Mr Sánchez's weakness to govern and bring a bill to this House. [[Applauds]] He is going to rule in a decree; as my partner has already said, twenty-six in seven months, nothing more and nothing less. That's all it means. With regard to the actual decree that concerns us - all the royal decrees bring very varied topics, omnibus decrees -, it brings very different topics, as you have well explained: brands, railway skills or combined trips - you see, nothing to do with each other - and with a contribution, by the way, scarce from the government, because either they literally transpose the European directives in the first two cases, or they recover from the drawer the bills that did not give us time to present to the People's Party, as in the case of combined trips, which elaborated Tourism, by the way, with our dear Dolors, who was Minister of Health and who had the powers of consumption at that time. Therefore, we will see that this habit of plagiarism, minister, is given to them barbaric, and the truth, when it is plagiarism to the PP, we do not care. I am already telling you that as long as we are plagued everything will go well, and I really believe, for the time they have spent in the government, that it is the best thing that can happen to the Spaniards, that they are dedicated to plagiarisming the People's Party and that they contribute nothing, because when they do it and they contribute they have now drawn up general state budgets which are the only thing that they do is to fry taxes on the Spaniards, to shoot public spending to make their municipal and autonomous campaign and to shoot the deficit and debt, thus endangering the welfare state. But worst of all, we've already seen this with President Zapatero. Moreover, the words of the Vice-President - please tell her - boasting of the support of the people for many of the real decrees that the Socialist Party brings to this House simply seem to me to be a defach. It seems ridiculous to me, because it has now been explained why we support them: because we have done them, you have not done them, socialist gentlemen. A People's Party government has done so, so we will support it. [[Applauds]] We're going to support it because you haven't contributed nearly a single coma. On the subject of the Royal Decree which is being brought here today, Title I, which, as you have explained, contains amendments arising from the European Trade Marks Directive, is an almost literal transposition of the text of the Directive and has been ruled out, as has also been said, the dictation of a new trade mark law, considering that it was not entirely amended, but that a law of amendment was chosen. It is already advanced that the People's Party is going to request the processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of this royal decree-law for considering, after talking with the associations, that there are aspects that are not included in this royal decree and that could possibly improve the norm, contributions that they have made as could be a definition of the renown marks or renown marks. Another of the requests made by the associations was that in the expiry and invalidity proceedings the choice of the proprietor of the trade mark or of any interested party should be left to the free choice of imposing such expiry or invalidity on administrative or judicial grounds, on civil or commercial jurisdiction, which is specialized in these intellectual property disputes, all of which, if treated as a draft law, could be studied and discussed by all groups of the parliamentary arch at a later stage. As regards Title II, which establishes a single European railway area, as you have said, what this directive brings is that it guarantees the affordable and non-discriminatory access of all companies in the sector to railway infrastructure, among other issues. But to this we must add that the best rules, such as the transposition of this directive or the well-intentioned General State Budgets that we left in 2018, in the hands of the Socialist Party, can always be twisted. Mr. Ramos, as you have spoken of Extremadura, we see the unfortunate execution you have had, solely responsible for the implementation of the 2018 budget. Why do you, Mr. Ramos, not claim from your partner, Mr. White, that railway model you complain about so much? Why don't you claim it? Why have you, with Mr Sánchez, not executed the departure that we left you to improve that train that leaves the extremists, their fellow citizens, on a daily basis? Why haven't they executed him? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Ask your president. Therefore, it is clear that this scant or no implementation of the budget was the sole and exclusive responsibility of the Socialist Party and its chairman, Mr Sánchez. As Title III, what is it? Combined travel and related travel services. This title amends the consolidated text of the General Law for the Protection of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws in order to transpose the Directive into national law. Among the main modifications - also the minister has explained it here - highlights the modernization of the scope and harmonized definitions, as well as the subject - which is most important to us - protected by the norm, which becomes the traveler. It is, in short, that the tourist when he comes to Spain has all the guarantees and that we, when we travel outside Spain, also have the maximum guarantees. That is why we are convinced that this project is good; good for the European Union; good because it guarantees us as a tourist destination and also to all operators working within the tourism sector in Spain. Moreover, all operators agree to give maximum guarantees to the consumer, to the traveller as, as you have said, the concept of a traveller has been extended. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the Socialist Party does not cease to be surprised, as I have said before. It brings important matters such as these to the plenary by means of royal decrees. Obviously, if you plagiarism our proposals, we will stand by you, but I want to tell you that I cannot help wondering why you have not spoken to your government partners, why you have not spoken to them. It is clear that they have not done so, Mr Pascual has already said, they have not spoken to them and I do not know whether they will know that what they are looking for with these real decrees is to facilitate competition and make these sectors more competitive. In this step of the Government towards liberalism, Mr Ramos, we will be, demonstrating that we put the general interests ahead of the partisan interests. I wish there were more parties like ours in this House and then we would be talking about another Spain. I am surprised that the thesis of liberalism, Minister, is embraced by other groups who rejoice in blaming liberalism for planetary evils, but when you govern you do the same, probably because this criticism explains your survival. [[The lady]] In any case, gentlemen, welcome to the theses that seek more competitiveness, improve the quality of the services provided and, ultimately, improve for their customers who, in conclusion, are all us, we are the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The Minister for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare, Carcedo Roces, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u85	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u86	Thank you, President. I speak from the seat, if I may, simply to make a couple of very quick clarifications. First, to justify my intervention in the presentation of this royal decree. As you know, it contains the transposition of three different directives. As responsible for consumption, I was responsible for making this presentation, but what the three directives have in common is that our country's deadline for transposition had already been completed. Two of them are from 2015 and another from 2016. Failure to transpose them meant economic consequences for our country. As for the welfare state, public services and the management of public debt, we will have time to debate and I will gladly discuss these three issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 24/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF RETRIBUTIONS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR. [[File number 130/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u88	We shall now proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 24/2018 of 21 December 2018 approving urgent measures in the area of remuneration in the public sector. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law whose validation the Government requests from this House is part of a policy of recovering the capacities and resources of public administrations to fulfil their aims and ensure the proper functioning of public services. The Administration was subject to very significant limitations and cuts that were justified in its need to overcome the crisis. The result of this process has been an Administration today in need of momentum, especially in terms of its human resources, i.e. its employees and public employees. Our Administration today has a problem of ageing, of drastically and indiscriminately reducing the number of employees and of consideration and conditions of those employees. For this reason, the Government has adopted a policy of recovering the status and position of public employees. Thus, this government has approved the largest offer of public employment since 2008, has assumed the reduction of the temporality in the public sector up to 8% - yesterday was signed by the Secretary of State of Public Service the agreement with the unions for stabilization for 2018-, has also adopted an increase of the paternity permit to sixteen weeks, has ensured the mobility of female employees victims of abuse with full guarantees and has established the possibility that those affected by HIV, diabetes, celiac disease and psoriasis can access the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Armed Forces and the Customs Surveillance Bodies and Prison Institutions. In this context of fostering a public function with professional development prospects, it was essential to consolidate the salary recovery after long years of cuts and freezing; a recovery initiated in the budgets of 2017 and 2018 that could be truncated by the impossibility of approving in time the Law of General Budgets of the State for 2019. A wage freeze for the current financial year, even on a transitional basis pending the approval of the budgets, would have been profoundly unfair in the current economic context and could have been considered as an inadequate signal in relation to the overall evolution of wages in Spain. In fact, while an act of justice the wage increase in the public sector also constitutes, together with the raising of the inter-professional minimum wage, a decision of economic policy to boost the wage recovery and thus to consolidate the dynamics of economic growth. In addition, the increase in public remuneration is a decision that derives from the agreement adopted in the framework of the dialogue with trade unions. We are therefore fulfilling, developing and extending also the agreements reached at the negotiating table of the Public Service of the Government, implementing and implementing the second agreement for the improvement of public employment and working conditions signed by the Government of Spain and the trade union organizations Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF. The decree-law on urgent measures in the area of remuneration in the public sector means an increase in wages for about two and a half million people who make up the public sector of the three administrations, the state, the autonomous and the local. Its effects are, therefore, general for public employment and its consequences for the economic dynamics of our country are particularly relevant, as would have been also, albeit to the contrary, the freezing resulting from the budgetary extension. The complexity and uncertainty that would have arisen from late adoption and the consequent need to include, in such a case, retroactive effects require such measures to be in force as from 1 January. Even more so when it was necessary for the local and autonomous administrations to be able to transfer in time and form to their wage regulations the criteria of pay increment for the 2019 financial year, the year in which the local and much of the autonomous administrations, as you all know, hold elections. A delay in forecasting the increase through the basic state legislation, combined with the time between the call for elections and the constitution of the new elected bodies, could have led to an excessive delay in the decision and even to the impossibility of applying it to this exercise. During the weeks leading up to today's debate, we have held long discussions with parliamentary groups from the ministry, from the Ministry of State for Public Service, and precisely these discussions, this exchange of views also shows the adequacy of the decisions adopted on 21 December in the Council of Ministers held in Barcelona. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, which, as I have said, affects all public employees and all public employees of all administrations, is a consequence of the agreement reached between the government and trade unions resulting from long negotiations in the search for a stable framework for public sector salaries, a three-year framework which, inter alia, in addition to the corresponding stability, would allow progress in rights negotiations without the tensions and distortions that the annual negotiations on pay increases would entail. All public employees, without exception, benefit from this measure, which is an advance in the recovery of pay increases, a framework which treats all employees of the public administration equally regardless of the sector in which they work and which applies to all those supplements according to the peculiarities of each job. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has assumed the need to maintain this stable framework, without more or less cyclical pressures. For this reason, it has also adopted this Decree-Law, which does not replace the future budget and discussions within the framework of it, but rather fulfils the commitments of the social dialogue, as I said, with the demands also of economic policy adapted to the present time and with the general needs of the Public Service. The security for all public employees to have in their current accounts that agreed rise has been the main driving force behind this decree-law. Reaching parliamentary pacts in a matter as relevant as that of budgets also means being aware of their integrated nature and of the need not to reopen such agreements or to reconsider them in each affected process. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law is not the general state budgets, nor does it make sense to become a general state budget. It is an urgent and limited rule to maintain the commitments made in respect of remuneration and its general effects on economic reality. The Decree-Law incorporates a fixed increase of 2,25 % that already charges all employees in the public sector in a linear way and an increase of 0.25 in additional funds that are distributed for the implementation of plans or projects to improve productivity or efficiency. This 0.25, therefore, is not necessarily intended for all employees in the public sector on a linear basis and is subject to negotiation with trade union organisations by each of the public administrations. It is therefore up to each administration to reach agreements with its trade union organisations and agree how these additional funds are distributed. A maximum of 0.25 variable remuneration is also regulated, the final percentage of which will be determined by the evolution of GDP in 2018 according to the official data of the INE. The final amount of this increase shall be fixed by agreement of the Council of Ministers and shall be effective as from 1 July, as in the previous financial year. We thus deepen the application of mechanisms that objectively link the wage evolution of public employees with the evolution of the Spanish economic situation on a path of increasing importance in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law not only implements the agreements adopted with trade union organisations and adopts a general economic policy measure, but also - as I said at the beginning of my speech - strengthens public employees, the civil service, the public sector and public services. It also recognizes the efforts that officials have made to bring this country out of the crisis, its dedication, professionalism and public service vocation. This helps to create a more attractive horizon for a Public Service that needs to attract talent in the coming years, attract the best, attract new incorporations that rejuvenate it and enable it to maintain at least its capacities for the coverage of public services and the needs of the Administration. I would like to end by thanking the parliamentary groups and also the autonomous administrations for the dynamic of cooperation developed in the discussions leading up to today's vote. The recovery of the capacities of public administrations and the position of their employees is a common goal for all; a goal in which the Government continues the path initiated precisely by the trade union agreements adopted by the previous Government; a genuine State objective that every government - whatever color - needs to deploy its programme and which is a fundamental element in ensuring the effectiveness of rights and the provision of services to the citizens of our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u90	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz, took part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we ask the government to speed up the offer of general public employment, because - we recall - the call for 2018 has not yet come out, although it is approved, and it is necessary to define 2019. We see with good eyes this royal decree-law, as it will mean an increase of 2.25% of the salary of the public administration staff, but we cannot forget to mention some clear-cuts it presents. Today we have in the gallery of guests representatives of an indispensable sector of our State, which makes it possible to comply with Article 25(2) of the Constitution - which speaks of the re-education and reintegration of persons deprived of their liberty in our prisons - and I would like to address them. The Spanish prison system is an internationally recognized model and with results in the insertion of prisoners far above the average of our political, economic and geographical environment, and this obliges the legislator to arbitrate the necessary measures so that the prison administration can continue to make progress. However, as we know, prison staff are precarious and ill-treated in their wages and also in their working conditions. Indeed, during the crisis the number of prison staff has fallen considerably, so that there are currently some 3,500 places that are not covered by a total of 23,500. In addition, the changes in the typology of the prison population have resulted in an increase in occupational sinestrality and also in physical aggression against this group. Precisely now, when in Spain we experienced a growth of the gross domestic product in the last quarter of 2018, it is urgent to make expansive policies that redistribute that growth among those who have been waiting for, for example, the collective of prison officials for a long time. I conclude by saying that Compromís will vote in favour of this decree-law and that we have called for its adoption as a draft law by urgent procedure, in order to introduce by means of amendments improvements that are not now envisaged, such as the increase in the salaries of prison public employees and the revision of their employment relationships which are already very outdated. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u92	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mr Xuclà i Costa.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself have pointed out that these are not General Budgets of State bis, but they are urgent and necessary measures that will have the support of the Democratic Party, with a more substantive debate pending, as we have, on possible amendments to the whole and on the handling of the budgets in the coming weeks. It is not the General Budgets of the State bis - quote you - but they are urgent measures for the wage recovery of two and a half million citizens who are engaged in public service at different levels of the public administration; citizens who, as has been pointed out from this rostrum, have endured the cuts of ten years of economic crisis and who deserve a salary increase of 2.26% in their salaries. This royal decree is also accompanied by some measures that we value positively and that we support, such as the increase in access to the Army by some groups with certain health problems that do not have to disable them for access to it. In the field of public service, we also think very well of the government's move to increase paternity leave to sixteen weeks. I'll finish the way I started. The Minister has said that these are not the General Budgets of the State, but that they are a contribution waiting for them. The Minister is part of the negotiating tables to make this possible and the Minister, Mrs Batet, knows that there is a possible agenda for bilateral dialogue between the Government of the State and the Government of the Generalitat so that it can be possible. He also knows that dialogue between political parties, among those who think in one way or another, is possible, following, for example, the proposal made by the Socialist Party of Catalonia in the Catalan Parliament of a table of parties who think in a different way, which can also be transferred to the scope of the General Courts, to the scope of this Congress. These would be some signs that would point to the right path, but this requires political will and something that must never be abandoned, which is the vocation of dialogue and the vocation of a pact. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u94	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u95	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the validation of Decree-Law 24/2018, which approved as a matter of urgency the salaries of staff serving the public sector, in addition to the economic modules for the financing of educational concerts. [[The Lord]] It is argued in favour of the extraordinary and urgent need of the decree-law the circumstance of the extension of the budgets of 2018 for this year 2019, which would entail, if the decree-law had not been approved, on the one hand, the freezing of the salaries of the public sector staff and, on the other hand, the non-compliance of the government agreement with the unions for the years 2018 to 2020, although we must note that such a wage freeze would not occur, but a rise in the same percentage as that of 2018. What the decree-law does is to increase the linear increase of the wage mass from 1.5% in 2018 to 2,25 % in 2019 and the additional - linked to productivity, to the approval of destination or specific supplements and contribution to pension plans - from 0,2 % to 0,25 %. The decree-law maintains the remainder of additional increases in equal percentages to those established for the past year, both linked to the increase in GDP and that associated, where appropriate, with the budgetary surplus in the year 2018 in the respective Administration and other entities of the public sector. In this scenario and given the subject regulated in the Royal Decree-Law, the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour, without prejudice to stating that it is a critical vote that leads us to ask that the Royal Decree-Law be used as a bill to make public administrations and their sectors, which are in surplus, more flexible or more flexible, as well as to allow the additional increases linked to the increase in GDP to materialize by the administrations competent at their choice, both in ordinary and deferred remunerations, and also to allow the exception in favour of the Minister of Finance to modify the amount of global credits intended to meet the productivity supplement and other incentives to performance, in favour of State officials only, to benefit the rest of public servants in other administrations other than those of the central government. He also told them that the vote in favour of the Basque Parliamentary Group was a critical vote not only for what it contains, but also for what it does not contain. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not share the view that the various public administrations and their sectors cannot deal with their staffing needs as quickly as possible and have to adjust to the course set out in the 2018 budgets, which has been dragging away for more than a decade by the restrictions imposed by the state. This is an urgent issue that calls for an unanticipated debate for the approval, if any, of the 2019 budgets. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, taking advantage of the fact that this year marks the 40th anniversary of the Constitution, I will appreciate the fact that, in our view, at this time, the autonomous powers in the field of public officials and personnel policies, which are defined in their statutes as exclusive, and/or legislative development and implementation, have remained. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that you have nothing left. Thus, the extension of the content in detail of the foundations that the State has been laying under the auspices of the Constitutional Court leaves an almost non-existent normative margin for the elaboration of policies specific to the autonomous communities in the field of their public function, relegating them to mere enforcers of policies designed and planned by the central powers of the State, including this House. Thus, the expansive interpretation of article 149.1.18.a has led the State to regulate uniformly all aspects of the statutory regime of public employees, such as the regulation of their rights, duties and responsibilities: acquisition and loss, determination of qualifications, mode of provision, situations, relationship of bodies and scales, promotion and career, disciplinary regime and even working time and duration of permits and licences. In short, everything linked to the statutory regime of the Civil Service, even the most nimious aspect, is considered basic. If it were not enough, the collapse of Article 149.1.13 in relation to Article 156.1, linked to State economic policy, has determined that wages, public employment offers, replacement rates - not only for global amounts, but also for specific sectors and groups - and stabilization rates for public employment are also uniform. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of this scenario, can you say - as is argued - that the Spanish State is the most decentralized country in the world, or, as some other sector maintains - in our view, more informed and with better criteria - that in the Spanish State there is broad autonomy, but of very low quality, by having removed from the autonomous communities any possibility of articulating public policies of their own regarding their employees and having made them mere administrative managers of state policies and decisions? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, today we are again facing a super Tuesday; a marathon session of validation of eight royal decree-laws, including this one on remuneration in the field of the public sector. Mrs Batet, this morning there are three credible facts: one, that you misrule by decree-law, because you cannot do so otherwise; two, that you are putting economic growth at risk and, therefore, the improvement in the remuneration of officials; and three, that Mr Sánchez is certainly not reliable. Do you remember that in June, when I was President - do not confuse it with when I was Mr Pedro Sánchez before - I said - and I open quotes -: Ladies and gentlemen, is this government going to rule with Parliament, not against Parliament? And the question is, when are you ruling with Parliament? I say this because they will do good to the People's Party, which was always governed by royal decrees with absolute majority. Look, of 28 royal decree-laws in 2018, 90% correspond to the Socialist Group, one per week. On what legitimacy is this government based to bring here this royal decree-law? You know that legislation by the executive through decree-law only occurs in cases of extraordinary and urgent need, and the question is why it has come to this end. I say this to you: because of the inaction and weakness of the Government itself, which is causing emergency situations. You are unable to rule normally. I'll give you some examples. In July, the deficit path of 1.8 % was rejected. They had to bring here, in this House, another path in a month, and they didn't. Moreover, they had an obligation to present the General Budgets of the State before the end of September, and they did not, and a few days ago they presented in this House the General Budgets of the State with a gap of 10 billion euros, with more than fictitious revenues and with some trap, such as the collection of VAT, in which they said that one year was thirteen months old; ladies and gentlemen, thirteen months old! [[Applauds]] I really do not know whether they want to convince Brussels in this way, whether they want to deceive the AIReF too, or even, worst of all, they want to deceive the Spanish as well. The government's discredit is putting us in an increasingly delicate situation in Spain, even in the matter that affects the fulfilment of this second agreement for the improvement of employment and working conditions - which was signed with the unions, as it has recalled, with the Workers' Committees, with UGT and with CSIF in March 2018 and which our parliamentary group, Citizens, supported -, which put the salary improvement of the Civil Service in relation to the growth of our economy, linking that growth of GDP; the problem is the expectation of growth has not stopped falling since Mr Sánchez arrived in Moncloa and we are already at 2.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, remember, the best social policy is the one that can be paid for. I remind you that you have frozen pensions, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, and that you have reduced the salaries of officials by an average of 5% - I say this to you because at the time I suffered it in my own flesh -, not to mention that the People's Party has delayed us the December extra payment. By the way, I wonder: What administrations have not yet returned that payment? Which ones are missing? I think it is information that the government should have included in the economic memory, Minister. And I'm telling you more, the same autonomous community that took six years to return the extra pay, the one that is missing from 2013 and 2014, is, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, which you allow to spend money on trips to Waterloo, on embassies and to drive away investment and companies outside Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, the same. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, your economic policy is a real disaster, it is the result of this pompite drift, your parliamentary weakness and your investment partners. We will vote in favour of this decree, but, Mrs Batet, we will ask for the procedure as a bill to introduce amendments as fair as the demands made by prison officials. Remember that if you don't know, if you can't or won't be able to carry out reforms for employment-generating economic policies and square the accounts, as we did by lowering taxes to the middle and working class in 2017 and 2018, you just have to call elections. It's very simple. Abandon that obsession to be one more month in the Moncloa. The Spaniards will thank you. Do not be afraid of democracy, but, yes, always with respect for the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u99	Thank you, President. The Government is bringing here today for validation the Royal Decree-Law 24/2018, approving urgent measures in the area of remuneration in the public sector. We share with the Government the extraordinary and urgent circumstances that lead to the adoption of this text, as it depends on the effectiveness of the pay increase in the same month of January for all employees and all public employees. This increase is the cause of the agreement signed by trade union organizations and the Government in March last year to improve employment and working conditions. What exactly is reflected in this royal decree-law? The fixed remuneration increase of 2.25% is recorded and 0.25 is conditioned on the increase of GDP in our country, provided that it is 2.5% in 2018; if this figure is not reached, the appropriate proportional reduction of this variable supplement would be made. What does our parliamentary group think of this rise? Obviously, we welcomed the agreement signed by the trade unions with the Government, but we also accompanied it with a reflection. [[The lady]] It seemed to us that it was insufficient, in order to be able to recover everything lost in public employment in this country, to rely only on the forecasts embodied in this agreement. Specifically, it seemed to us that the recovery of economic rights of public employees and public employees in this country could not be conditional on the improvement of the economy. It seemed to us that recovering the economy was a task of the Government and that it should not impact the recovery of rights on the staff of public administrations, but that they and they were entitled to be able to recover between 15 and 20 per cent, which is the calculation, according to optimistic forecasts, of the loss of purchasing power within the public sector. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, because we believe that the increase envisaged in this text is necessary, but we also want to put on the table a number of issues which are in the royal decree-law and which have already been the subject of amendments in the previous budgets by this group. First of all, we would like to remind you that we are against suspending compensation for staff abroad, but also that sufficient financial appropriations are needed to be able to negotiate a new single labour agreement, which has been denounced for years. With regard to the limitation of expenditure within the General Administration of the State, I would like to make a general comment. We have been witnessing in recent years, and it is not random, a proliferation of conflicts within the collectives of the General Administration of the State, which sometimes come to demand an increase in wages and, on other occasions, an equalization with other public administrations. We are talking about conflicts within the Civil Guard, the National Police, the traffic examiners or, recently, prisons. What do these kinds of claims reveal? They show that the General Administration of the State has a real pay deficit that needs to be addressed at some point. We have put forward initiatives to address this problem. We believe that it is necessary to open an urgent dialogue table which will analyse the most vulnerable situations of the staff of the General Administration of the State and to initiate a plan for the recovery and updating of public sector salaries, which have been in deficit for years - if they rush me, decades. We therefore believe that we need to address and work on these types of issues. I also wanted to take advantage of the fact that the minister here is here to put on the table a number of issues that concern us in the text that we now have of the General Budgets of the State. We are concerned about the wording given to the replenishment rate of public employment in this text, because it practically amounts to the rate that is already in force in previous budgets, with some correction or some difference. We are concerned about two issues: the first, because in the agreement with the unions the replacement rate for 2018 had been agreed, but the one for 2019 was still pending negotiation, and that negotiation did not take place before the submission of the budgets; the second, because since we arrived in this House we have been recalling the need to rethink the replacement rate policy. That concern has been shared with you in initiatives that we have jointly taken forward, initiatives that called for limiting the replacement rate, especially in the light of the circumstances of local public administrations. We would like to think that this concern continues to exist within his Government and within the socialist ranks. I wouldn't want to think they're buying Mr. Montoro's replacement rate model. I hope - and I am sure that we can move in that direction - that we can move in another direction, because I fear that it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, and for us to change this, that we can change the replacement rate model. Let's be brave, be brave. Public employment and public services in this country are sustained by strong efforts and we must give them guarantees, guarantees to strengthen our democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Honorato. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to fruition a real decree that clearly demonstrates that we are in front of a government that is fulfilling and that is also reliable, and is demonstrating this in many areas, also with regard to the agreements reached between the main trade union centres representing public employees and the Government of Spain. They will now say from the People's Party bench that we are dealing here today with an agreement that was launched by the previous Spanish Government and that had as its main objective to recover rights, among others, the purchasing power of our public jobs; rights that, curiously, had diminished the Government itself at the hand of Mr Montoro, always with the excuse of the crisis, but imposing their ideology and the lack of respect that they have for public services, because, unfortunately, even though it weighs them, you do not believe in public services and want to let them die out of starvation. But, ironies of life, they first punished the public employees and then Mr Montoro, more out of necessity than by vocation - and we will never tire of saying it -, sat down with the most representative trade union organizations to pretend to fix what had gone wrong, although we don't know if he would get to execute it, and there are reasons to distrust, because they didn't develop the Transparency Act adopted in 2013 and neither did the High Offices Act. Having done this brief historical parenthesis, it is, fortunately, a socialist government that develops the agreement, who is implementing it, just as it has developed the Law on Transparency, through its regulatory development, and the Law on Senior Officials. That is why it shows, as I did before, that the Government is fulfilling; it fulfils because we are before an Executive committed to public services and to public employees, true guarantors of the rights of citizens represented in such public services, public employees to whom we owe their rights for the effort made during the toughest years of the economic crisis, for which they were not to blame, paying with their sacrifice and with their pocket the cuts that were made. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are also faced with a cautious government that does its tasks and duties despite the foreseeable irresponsibility of some political forces in this House that have ruled out complying with the General Budgets of the State and that have ruled out complying with the citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u103	Thank you, President. That is why the Government, moving ahead with this policy of blockade and paralysis that they want to impose on the entire country, approved this royal decree, so that since 1 January public employees can see their salaries increased. There are more than 2.5 million public employees in the state, autonomous and local administrations, as well as in the public business sector, who enjoy this wage increase and are in danger of their salaries starting frozen the new year, a situation that avoided the real decree that we validate today. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be remembered that the improvement in the remuneration conditions approved by the Socialist Government translates into a fixed increase for this year 2019 of 2.25% for all public employees. To this fixed percentage is added another variable of 0.25 for gross domestic product growth equal to or greater than 2.5. In addition, public employees will have another additional percentage of 0.25 additional funds, the distribution of which in this case will depend on the negotiation of each administration with its trade union organisations. In short, a recognition that this country owed to civil servants, to public employees, a sector on which the People's Party had a significant part of its economic policy of punishment rested. Gradually, month by month, this Government regains the dignity of the political agenda that should never have been at the service of unjustified cuts. But there's more, ladies and gentlemen. The wage rise, though fair, is not the only measure that the Public Service deserved. The recovery of rights stolen years ago also has to be translated into other government actions that this Executive contemplates from day one. Ladies and gentlemen, in just over seven months the socialist government has done more for public employees than the Rajoy government, the PP government, has done in seven years. [[Applauds]] I am referring to the last approved offer of public employment, the largest in the last ten years, which totals 30,844 places, the reduction of the public sector's temporality by 8%, the extension of the paternity permit to sixteen weeks, the mobility of female victims of ill-treatment with full guarantees and the possibility that those affected by HIV, diabetes, celiac disease and psoriasis will have access to the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Armed Forces, customs surveillance bodies and prison institutions; and the security forces and bodies to which the salaries have been equated. I am also convinced that this Government will negotiate the resolution of the demands of public prison employees - whom I would especially like to greet and acknowledge their work - in coordination with the trade unions. We are faced with a sensitive Government that, in just one month, resolved the offer of public employment for general and special bodies to meet the human resources needs of these groups. The Government is also working to increase measures to reconcile working and family life by adopting measures such as the accumulation of 5 per cent of hours to care for minors, the elderly or the disabled and the recovery of rights through the elimination of the reduction in salaries suffered by public employees since 2012 due to temporary disability. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have announced and reiterated here today that this government is weak because it brings real decree-laws to validation. And the Rajoy government, the PP government, between 2012 and 2016, was also weak with an absolute majority? Because he brought seventy-three decree-laws to validate, I repeat, seventy-three. And fifteen of the sixteen laws that were passed in his previous mandate were processed as royal decree-law. In short, this government governs by decree-law because it is a perfectly valid way to inject dignity into citizens and public employees in this case. It's happened with the interprofessional minimum wage...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u104	Mrs. Serrano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u105	I'm done, Madam President. I say that it has happened with the interprofessional minimum wage and at the same time it is happening also with the salaries of public employees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the validation of a real decree-law, not a budget debate. Time will have to talk about replacement rates and other needs of public employees. Spain having a socialist government is good news for the working class and on the right, on the right, they don't like it, but last weekend we had the opportunity to see old glories that have now taken out those who say they are coming to renew politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Serrano. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u107	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, I thought you were going to come up here today and I was going to say two words: the first, thank you, and the second, sorry; I thought I was going to apologize. Thank you for the work carried out by the People's Party in recent years in favour of public employees and public services in this country because this royal decree-law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u109	... this royal decree-law, like everything they have done since they arrived in the government in early June, is a consequence of the agreements of the People's Party with the representatives of the workers, the public employees. It is not yours, Madam Minister, it is not the Socialist Party, Madam Minister, this is the serious and rigorous work of the People's Party, both the rise in wages and the offers of public employment resulting from the two agreements signed by a finance minister who, by the way, is not you. [[applause]] I should therefore first like to thank you and secondly today I should ask for forgiveness; first, for not recognizing that work of others, for replaguing and appropriating the work of others, but above all today you should ask for forgiveness from all the public employees of this country, Minister, because since you came to power, since you came with that motion of censure to be minister of the Government of Spain, what have you brought to all the collectives? He's given them absolutely nothing. The Socialist Group's spokesman now comes and says that, as it is our job, we will have to vote in favour. I already announce that the People's Party is going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law, but I also announce that we are going to ask that it be treated as a bill because in front of you, who are a party that is not even conformist, we are a deeply reformist party, a party that deals with the Spanish and among them we also deal with public employees. We will ask you to proceed as a bill because you say this is urgent, but there are many things that are also urgent. First of all, I would like to remind the prison officials, who are accompanying us today in the rostrum, because they too have the right to increase their salaries and to improve the working conditions, the replacement rate, training and other demands of the prison staff. [[applause]] You speak, Madam Minister, of the urgency of this agreement of the People's Party, but it is that there was also another agreement of the People's Party - and we have Minister Zoido here - with the National Police and with the Civil Guard, we had to incorporate the second phase of that agreement of the People's Party, and you forget about the national police and the Civil Guard. By the way, Citizens have also forgotten about the National Police and the Civil Guard today, and it is reflected in the agreement that, if there are no budgets, this second phase will be incorporated by royal decree-law. [[applause]] But you too are forgetting the members of the Armed Forces today, because they too deserve this economic growth to be able to achieve their additional wage improvements. In short, collective by collective or as a whole, you are forgetting the millions of public employees. Madam spokesman for the Socialist Group, you speak of the People's Party. All the adjustments we had to make from the People's Party have been recovered. We are still waiting - and an opportunity would have been this royal decree-law - to recover the 5% drop made by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero to the officials, a fall that Mr Sánchez voted in favour. Let's see why they haven't incorporated it into this royal decree-law. [[Applauds]] Minister, I repeat to you again, we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. We are going to ask that it be treated as a bill because we believe that, in addition to what we have done, much more can be done for all public employees. The difference between you and us is that perhaps we are dedicated to improving the lives of the Spaniards while you are dedicated to the photo of shame, which is that instead of working for the Spaniards your only project from the beginning has been to keep Mr. Pedro Sánchez seated in La Moncloa. [[Show a photo]] 1. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR A JUST TRANSITION OF COAL MINERY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF MINERAL TRADE. [[File number 130/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u111	We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 25/2018 of 21 December of urgent measures for a fair transition from coal mining and the sustainable development of mining regions. To present the royal decree-law on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Ecological Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Happy New Year. The year 2018 is over and with it the maximum time that the European Union allowed us to subsidise national coal. We from the Government are convinced of the importance of the cross-cutting inclusion of green transition in all public policies. We believe that this is the only way we can make progress on an agenda of progress, economic and social growth and the creation of opportunities, always obviously in the context of a just social accompaniment. The implicit transformations of this transition process require an anticipation, an accompaniment with measures of industrial, labour and training impulse, which ensure that no one is left behind. It stated earlier - I now refer to the specific Community standard - that Decision 2010/787 of the Council of the European Union of 10 December 2010 on State aid to facilitate the closure of non-competitive mines, which is therefore more than eight years ago, is the transition for the coal sector from a particular rule to the general rules on State aid applicable to all sectors. The 2010 Decision limited until 31 December 2018 the possibility for Member States to grant aid to non-competitive mines to cover coal-related costs for electricity generation. Article 3 of this Decision lays down the conditions for aid to undertakings specifically intended to cover losses in the current production of production units to be considered compatible with the internal market. In particular, this rule required a closure plan for non-competitive production units, so that an orderly cessation of mining activities in those production units could be carried out, which would have to be completed by 31 December 2018. Thus, the decision recognises that Member States should be able to take measures to alleviate the social and regional consequences of the closure of these mines and to this end makes possible the adoption of complementary measures aimed at financing exceptional costs related to these closures, such as those relating to the staffing reduction processes, which would enable the negative consequences on employment to be mitigated in areas where the latter normally represented a large part of the activity in the area. These 1 Note from the Journal of Sessions: The photo shows, from left to right, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, Batet Lamaña; the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, Calvo Poyato; the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón; the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Torra i Pla; the Vice-President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Aragonès i Garcia; and the President and Spokesperson of the Government of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Artadi Vila. actions shall apply during the period of validity of the standard, which shall expire on 31 December 2027. In this context, the framework for action for coal mining and mining regions for the period 2013-2018 agreed on 31 October 2013 by the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism with the trade union centre Fitag-UGT, the Federation of Workers' Commissions Industry, the USO Federation of Industry and the grouping of entrepreneurs in the sector, Carbon, was configured as the instrument for planning public policies for the reorganization of coal mining during this period, in accordance with the 2010 decision. Similarly, this 2013-2018 Plan contains a number of measures aimed at economic promotion of mining areas, but unfortunately, despite the latest plans for coal and the 2013-2018 framework for action to encourage alternative activities, these regions continue to maintain a high level of economic dependence on the coal mining industry, which makes them particularly fragile economically and socially. There is still a large number of staff with extensive professional experience in the mining sector, and significant physical wear and tear in many cases, in areas where there is already a high unemployment rate and limited opportunities for job reintegration. If we combine the critical situation of companies in the sector with this, one wonders how to maintain a certain level of employment beyond 31 December 2018 in these areas. In other words, we are faced with a collective and priority regions from the point of view of the just transition, regions and neighbours who need the solidarity support of the whole of society. This was the argument, the fundamental logic that explains our commitment to reach a framework agreement for the fair transition of coal mining and the sustainable development of mining areas in the period 2019-2027 that was signed last 24 October by the Ministry of Ecological Transition with the trade union central FICA-UGT, the Federation of the Workers' Commissions Industry, the Federation of the USO Industry and the grouping of entrepreneurs in the sector, Carbon. In this agreement for the fair transition, in which all the trade unions participated together with the entrepreneurs in the sector, the bases have been laid for a fair transition from coal mining and sustainable development in the regions, taking into account the situation in the sector and the completion of aid to cover the losses of the mining operations in agreement - and this was a sine qua non condition - with the requirements of European legislation. In this area, the Government's concern has focused on the effective implementation of the outstanding aid for mining municipalities for the period 2013-2018. In recent months we have accelerated the granting of aid to small entrepreneurs and to business projects, as well as to municipalities for infrastructure, which will amount to slightly more than EUR 130 million in mining areas. The agreement also includes 250 million for the reactivation of regions in the period 2019-2023, aid for the reactivation of the area through support for businesses and new businesses. We have worked to extend the budget allocation for 2019 and therefore this royal decree included the possibility of applying the revenues of emission allowances auctions in actions of policies of fair transition and of combating climate change to an amount of 100 million euros, all in a context in which the greatest challenge was precisely to work against the clock. By the deadline of 31 December 2018, companies forming part of the said non-competitive mining closure plan should be eligible for aid covering the costs of reducing their still large workforce, in accordance with Article 4 of the European Union Decision, while ensuring that by the same date all surplus coal mining workforces would be able to access social benefits financed under these categories of aid or at least be entitled to an unemployment benefit for the statutory maximum period as a way of alleviating the impact of job losses in those areas. This forced us to make changes with extraordinary urgency. It has been months when we have been working on a real rescue plan for all the workers of the private companies included in the closure plan, so that they could benefit from pre-retirement or reduced incentives plus improved benefits from their career path. In parallel, with regard to workers under this plan who could not benefit from pre-retirement or who were integrated into subcontracts and could not be included in the social plan agreement because their companies were not part of the closure plan, we have decided to create a work bag managed by the Institute for the restructuring of coal mining and alternative development of the mining regions, facilitating access to new employment sites, training courses and preparation for a future, pushing with the utmost effort out of work for all; I insist, for all. We believe that it is essential to maintain, activate and enhance measures aimed at economically boosting these regions and encouraging employment in the municipalities concerned. We believe that for the transition it is important to understand that it is just and is conceived, understood and perceived as just. We also believe that we must continue to work for this; from 2019 onwards, the continuity of these measures will be essential through reactivation policies in the regions, extending their scope and facilitating the economic momentum through the development of new infrastructures, projects for the restoration of the natural space affected by mining activities or alternative economic activities that favor the generation of new jobs. So today we bring to validation a real decree-law that responds to the need to face an unusual economic situation, regulating urgently the legal framework that ensured the fair transition and ensuring that on the deadline mentioned -31 December 2018 - the affected could have access to all the measures described. This is the purpose for which the Government adopted on 21 December 2018 the Royal Decree-Law 25/2018 on urgent measures for a fair transition from coal mining and the sustainable development of mining regions. In this regard, this royal decree-law constitutes a constitutionally lawful and appropriate instrument for the achievement of the purpose justifying emergency legislation, which is no other, as our Constitutional Court has repeatedly demanded, which provides for a specific situation within the governmental objectives which, for reasons difficult to foresee - in this case an obvious shortage of time - urgently requires immediate legislative action. It is also consistent with the principles of good regulation set out in article 129 of Law 39/2015 of 1 October on common administrative procedure of public administrations. [[The Lord]] It is in line with the principle of proportionality by containing the necessary regulation for the achievement of the above-mentioned objectives, in line with the principle of legal certainty by being 100 % consistent with the regulation of the European Union in this area. The principles of necessity and effectiveness derive from what I have just outlined. As regards the principle of transparency, its regulation is based on the above-mentioned framework agreement for a fair transition from coal mining and sustainable development in the mining regions, in which the various social actors have been actively and intensively involved. We therefore respect that will for consensus. As regards its content, the measures contained in this text are grouped into two titles and a final part which includes the provisions necessary to complete the regulation. Title I sets out the special scheme for social assistance. Distinguish between aid for labour costs for older workers and aid for labour costs by means of voluntary indemnities. It flexibleises the current access conditions in order to accommodate all workers who maintain their working relationship with coal mining companies considered on 30 June 2018. To this end, a reference is made to the current Royal Decree 676/2014 of 1 August, establishing the scheme of labour cost subsidies intended to cover exceptional costs linked to production unit closure plans of coal mining companies, which is amended in some respects and whose scope is extended. Title II allows the necessary measures for sustainable development in the mining regions, introducing the amendment of the said Royal Decree 676/2014 in order to extend its temporal scope of validity beyond 31 December 2018, thus allowing the development of actions since the entry into force of this norm. Finally, there are a number of provisions necessary to complete the regulation; for example, aspects provided for in the new framework agreement for a fair transition from coal mining and sustainable development of mining areas for the period 2019-2027 are included, a transitional scheme of social aid covered by that rule is established in relation to the procedures already initiated under the previous regulation or that scheme in respect of existing or ongoing cooperation agreements. In short, in each of the measures adopted in this rule, the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent need required as an enabling budget for a decree-law are in competition with each of them, since all of them had to be adopted necessarily in advance of 31 December 2018 if we wanted them to be effective and not to leave any of the affected ones behind; in fact, the entry into force of this decree-law has already enabled the start, the processing of the planned employment regulations without being left unprotected, that the workers will be able to access pre-retirement or reduced incentives, that the surplus workers - including those of the subcontracts - will be able to access jobs in restoration, that the companies will be able to receive subsidies for the restoration work or that the mining municipalities will be able to present projects of the framework 2013-2018 in the coming months for the granting of financial aid. Although this Royal Decree-Law incorporates urgent policy changes to cover workers, extend project submission times and ensure a sufficient budget, the Government's commitment to a just transition and the sustainable development of particularly affected areas, such as mining areas, goes beyond and becomes integral. It is a fundamental first step to be addressed and to give immediate response, but our commitment includes continuing to drive integration and fair transition measures for all affected, including - I stress - subcontracts. In fact, we are already working on an urgent plan for the mining regions that includes the restoration plan, which ensures the environmental and social restoration of the areas, and a plan for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency with particular attention in the affected areas and which will involve these workers. We will continue to seek additional measures to ensure that no one is left behind, which will be accompanied by the elaboration of fair transition agreements in the affected regions with the intention of setting ourselves objectives of creating, fixing employment in the medium and long term and generating industrial and economic activity. The Government is committed to doing so in a participatory manner; we believe that this is essential: prompt and participatory development. And also to make a transparent follow-up of what has been agreed, its success, its need for correction or its possibility of continuing to abound in the most successful components. These agreements will offer assisted and agile access to the financial support windows available in the General Administration of the State - to European funds, for example, to the Platform for Coal Regions - and will offer tax incentives, among other measures, and can therefore be extended to finance available to the territories and people in transition. All of this within the framework of the just transition strategy, which we believe must include cross-cutting measures to address the required public green transition policies from that indispensable vector of employment and social justice, because in the view of this Government it is essential to accompany in solidarity workers from sectors particularly affected by a rapid transition in an economy that is increasingly moving towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions and that must be prepared to do so by taking advantage of the opportunities and, of course, minimizing the negative impacts that any change can entail. We believe that social and territorial cohesion must be ensured in the context of energy security, promoting concrete measures to enable the Spanish economy to transition fairly and in solidarity. In our view, this is a decisive, key element that marks the value of a given civilization, of a particular social reality. Like the great challenges of the twenty-first century we face, we are required to have a sincere response that guarantees a model of sustainable development; empathetic, that helps those who suffer and lose most; in the future, that opens up lasting social opportunities over time, an agenda that generates opportunities. Because this Government's ambition in the area of transition is, in essence, an ambition for social justice. Because the ecological transition must be fair, generating opportunities without leaving anyone on the road. They look at us closely, they look at us by the citizens concerned, they look at us by the trade union organizations, they also look at us from other countries with equivalent challenges or the International Labour Organization itself, whose recommendations and guidelines have inspired our work and effort in negotiation, in reaching agreements with trade unions and employers. The agreement with the social partners reflects all these recommendations in a timely manner. Therefore, I ask the House to validate this royal decree-law in accordance with article 86 of the Constitution, trusting that parliamentary groups will support it in view of the significance of the actions it understands and knowing that this is a first step in a long, complex path, but that it is worth taking to offer and assure a future to our citizens, to our society, to our children, to ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the round of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is not, Madam Minister for the Ecological Transition, a first step; this is the final step in the unacceptable process of dismantling and desertification of the mining basins with which the socialist dot is stuck to the coal sector and to large areas of population, especially in Asturias. By liquidating coal, the Sánchez government is wasting the only indigenous fossil fuel we have in Spain and therefore renouncing our energy sovereignty. This concludes the course initiated by the then European Commissioner Joaquín Almunia, with the knowledge and acquiescence of the then President of the Government, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who initiated a regulation for reasons of unfair competition in subsidized coal and set himself as the date to end mining in 2018, as you recalled with reference to that decision of the European Council. At the Forum we aim as the most environmentally sound of the planet and its inhabitants, hence our amendments from the past budget year which you have ceased to implement in order to achieve the planned European zero-emission target. However, in the face of this PSOE policy, which hastily, anxiously and suddenly kills coal and basin mining, we consider it a priority to defend national energy sovereignty and to recover the concept of a strategic reserve contained in the Green Paper on Energy, as well as to define the essential participation of indigenous coal in the energy mix which last year accounted for no less than 14% of the total electricity generation. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a country of very high energy dependence on the outside. Today in Spain our families, businesses and industries pay one of the most expensive light receipts in Europe, the electro-intensive and its thousands of direct and indirect jobs are plunged into uncertainty. See Alcoa, see Arcelor's ERTE or see the warnings of the iron and steel directors against the negative decline in competitiveness driven by high energy costs. Power generation thermal power plants are being forced to shut down by dragging their workers and auxiliary companies into unemployment. The logistics and transport of solid bulk - both sea and road - are also severely penalized. The Government of Sánchez persists in the arms trade against coal mining rather than following the example of other countries such as Poland or Germany, whose governments have approved state plans that maintain extractive capacity, jobs and economic activity in their basins. With the vote against Forum we reject this royal decree-law, very socially and economically harmful for the immediate future of the mining regions, but also for our basic industry and, ultimately, for the whole of Asturias. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, we share the basic philosophy expressed by the royal decree, the need to put an end to aid for coal and the need for this process to respond to the principles of a just transition. I have to start there by reminding you that this royal decree in its practical application should not exclude the mining basins of Catalonia and, in particular, the areas of the Alt Bergedà, which continue to suffer the consequences of the end of mining activity in those territories, with serious problems. In addition, in the period 2007-2012, a number of actions should have been carried out based precisely on this aid for the restructuring of mining and the alternative development of the mining regions and it turns out that some EUR 4 million of aid is pending which is essential for job creation and economic recovery in the Alt Bergedà. We are concerned about the state's debt to the region of Bergedà, we are concerned that this region is excluded from this royal decree. Secondly, the Royal Decree incorporates, through its fifth transitional provision, a mechanism for allocating the economic resources of the auction of CO2 rights. You know, Minister, that there we maintain a fundamental discrepancy with the government. In our view, these resources should be territorialized, transferred to the autonomous communities precisely to combat global warming and climate change in the diffuse sectors. There, the Government continues to spend resources on policies that are directly managed by the Ministry or on reducing the tariff deficit. This seems to us to be a wrong approach and that is what leads us not to be able to support this royal decree. Finally, I must remind you, Minister, that some of the aspects of this royal decree that extend earlier rules were handed down by the Constitutional Court against, which established the principle that any aid affecting a policy in which competition is shared must be managed by the autonomous community. If we do not change this last aspect in the parliamentary procedure, the risk is that this royal decree will come to an end again in the Constitutional Court and that the Government of the State will again lose to the claims of the autonomous communities. [[The lady]] Therefore, all this leads us to abstain in the validation of this royal decree and to the request that it be treated as a draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u117	Mrs Sagastizábal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures for a fair transition from coal mining and the sustainable development of the mining regions, on the one hand, because we believe that they are still necessary measures to encourage and promote alternative activities in these regions, because they still maintain a high level of economic dependence on the mining industry and also high unemployment, despite the recent coal plans that have been carried out, which seem to have failed to achieve the objective of reactivation and to seek alternatives to this mining activity that will really allow the regeneration and economic reactivation of these regions. And it is that this economic and social model seems to have reached its limit of development. It is a real decree that responds to the consequences for which Europe, as the minister has said, forced to close by 31 December 2018 those coal mines that had not returned the state aid received between 2011 and 2018. This aid was also granted in the framework of the European Union decision establishing that non-competitive farms could receive subsidies to cover losses from current production and exceptional costs, but whose counterpart was the closure commitment in December 2018. It is therefore a decree that provides for pre-retirement, reduced incentives and the creation of a labour market for non-pre-retired workers managed by the Institute for the Restructuring of Coal Mining. The Royal Decree-Law also updates the social measures adopted in 2014 when the scheme for labour costs aid was introduced to cover exceptional costs linked to plans for the closure of coal mining production units. As I have commented, we will vote in favour of this decree because we understand that they are necessary measures for all these workers, but we also urge the Government to encourage these alternative economic plans for these regions to be realistic and to be made with a certain diagnosis, seeking solutions and alternatives with proper planning to achieve the stated objective. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u119	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u120	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Madam Minister, there is again a debate here on decarbonisation, which we have already had an opportunity to have at large in the high and clear parliamentary seat. Once again, at this point in the film no one can deny that this state must make a clear bet on the change of energy model in line with the agreements reached in Katowice. By the way, Madam Minister, I take the opportunity to inform you - this is the first time we have seen it - that this parliamentary group submitted a request last December for you to come forward with an explanation of your Government's views on the agreements contained in this climate summit. But, returning to the object of the royal decreeley, there are sources of energy that must be left behind by faces, by contaminants and by obsoletes, and coal is one of them. We understand that the debate here is closed; here and in Silesia. Therefore, we understand that those territories that are highly dependent on this source of energy are recipients of development plans in order to be able to initiate a change in their productive model; badly if they start them now, they should have started years ago. We support these measures - not without questioning both their actual implementation and their scope of action - in so far as, as my colleague Mr Campuzano has said, in Catalonia we also have mining regions - as he knows - and in the 2006-2012 Carbon Plan, promoted by the PSOE government, aid was granted to promote infrastructure with the aim of creating new occupation sites that were an alternative for unemployed people from the mining sector, known as Fonds Miner. The Government of the People's Party, when it came to power, decided to cut and not pay for the funds agreed and committed through the Catalan Mining Bureau, of which the Government of the Spanish State is also part. These were business projects and infrastructure projects that were very important to the region of Bergedá. We are talking about EUR 4.4 million that were committed and that the Spanish Government stopped paying in Catalan territory with the consequent lack of funding for the planned plans. I have the list broken down with its corresponding amounts, but the Minister must also be responsible for it. Another comparative aggravation regarding our territory that has to do with the scope of action of these plans are the recipients of these aids from the royal decree on the territories included in the framework of action for coal mining in the mining regions 2013-2018, where it is established that the object of the plan are the mining regions of Aragon, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León and the Principality of Asturias. It also notes that exceptional performances will be considered in Andalusia, Galicia and Catalonia. Well, no action has been envisaged in that territory, not only exceptionally, ignoring the commitment of the State and, consequently, the debt of 4.4 million that I have quoted. Finally, we also call for compliance in Catalonia with Ministerial Order 1158/2014 of 30 June, which regulates aid concessions for small investment projects to promote the alternative development of mining areas in the period 2014-2018. You see, Minister, that we are committed to the decarbonisation plans, but we also want the real commitment to be implemented and extended to all the territories that require it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u121	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to wish you a happy start to this course and a happy year, which I have not seen before, and I would also like to denounce that there are already twenty-seven decrees, twenty-seven forms of abuse or prostitution of the meaning of the Royal Emergency Decree-Law, which is not used to govern taxively but should be for that purpose, only for emergencies. If there is a clear weakness, simply call for elections, we will go to different majorities and then we can come to an agreement. This text brought to us by the Minister reflects the Government's agreement with the majority trade unions in the sector. The aim is to establish such measures as are necessary for a fair transition from coal mining to mining areas as of 31 December. But we are going to do a little memory, which I believe is going to be quite instructive in terms of mining and the money that has been devoted to converting the sector. In 1997 Spain had 24,405 workers in the mining sector, at the end of 2017 there were 1592. Let's make a summary or that memo about all the plans that have been implemented. Mining plan from 1998 to 2005, signed by the People's Party; commitment to invest 500 billion pesetas, 3000 million euros, for infrastructure, for training, for attracting companies in the area, all apparently agreed. Plan 2006-2012 coined and signed by the Socialist Party, 2880 million euros for the basins; much of these funds were not implemented, were not used, were not used for what was intended. Framework of Action for the Carbon Mining 2013-2018, 150 million euros for new business projects, 250 million euros for infrastructure in these regions; there is no record of any of the implementation data of this last plan. What's going on? We are now, Framework Agreement 2019-2027, the latest conversion plan. Of course we have to take action, because something has happened all this time, which, after the plan, millions, millions and millions of euros have been allocated, there is no answer or actual data telling us that these funds have been implemented, there are no certifications telling us that this money has reached the miners, nor that this sector is being converted. They were talking about fair social accompaniment. The just social accompaniment would have been that in all these years and with all these plans the sector was already converted. Because, where's that money? Where is all the money that is supposed to have been spent and not invested? Has the sector been converted? [[Applauds]] I believe that the sector is not yet reconverted. We're still going to emergency plans, real emergency decree-laws to see what's going on. What's the status of the basins? Has the situation of the basins improved after all these plans or has the situation of the basins deteriorated? Is there more employment in these areas? Let us take the example of the mining municipalities of Asturias: they multiply the unemployment rate by two. But if we go to the youth unemployment rate in the mining municipalities of Asturias we can already get our hands on the head. Have these plans for the conversion of the mining sector been alleviated by the possible depopulation of this area? Surprise!, the twenty-six mining municipalities of León in the last ten years have suffered a decrease in their population of 15%; that is, that it is neither converted, nor known where the money is, nor the money has reached the miners, nor are there any employment plans for that area, nor have there been given a second life to that area, nor has depopulation been alleviated either. With which, what has been done with all that money? I am also sorry to give all this data, because this is not a personal opinion, it is the data and they are there to contrast them. This is what has the perversion of numbers, they cannot be manipulated. They show the incapacity of many policies that are perpetuated in time without asking for an execution. Beyond this, this is an agreement, as I say, which has been reached with the majority unions, but which leaves out much of the workers who are employed through subcontracts. This has been denounced by the Workers' Union, which has said that this royal decree does not serve all employees in the mining sector because it leaves out all those subcontractors in this case. That is why we ask the Government to proceed as a bill. We'd like to put light on all this. We have asked the committee of inquiry into the mining funds and we would like the Socialist Party to support it at once and stop blocking it, because neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party want to shed light on this. We will vote that yes, as I have already passed on to the minister, to this royal decree-law of urgency, but we also ask him to be treated as a bill. The aim is to ensure the interests of all workers, including those who have not been covered in this whole process, as reported by minority trade unions. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the policy of the royal decree is not the policy that should be implemented or carried out by a Government. The policy of the royal decree should be for exceptional and urgent situations. If they do not have a majority, instead of going to coup d'état, they call for elections, which are needed, and we would reach productive and more stable agreements. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u123	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Marcello Santos has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u124	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Today, the Government brings us a real decree on the just transition from coal mining and the sustainable development of mining regions. For starters, even if it bothers us, we will continue to say that this royal decree captures the covenant of the three lies. Firstly, this is not a transition pact, it is a point and an end to the mining sector itself. Secondly, it is not an ecological pact, because, whether we like it or not, coal will continue to burn in this country and it will be imported coal. Thirdly, this is not a fair pact, nor with the regions of Asturias, León, Palencia and Aragon, nor is it a fair pact for the workers, much less for the subcontract workers. It is also important that we talk about how we have reached this dramatic situation. Since we emerged as a political formation, we have denounced the systematic non-compliance with the Framework of Action for Carbon Mining 2013-2018, which we did not sign, because we did not even exist as a political formation. From the same day that it is signed, non-compliance begins. Therefore, you as a minister have to understand that all those talk about reactivation of the mining regions are very unbelievable to the workers and the people of the regions, because, as we have seen, those mining funds, which always said they were going for industrial conversion, never came for that. Industrial estates were created, empty of industry, parks, gardens, lighthouses and so on and no industry in the mining regions. Therefore, our group wanted to set up a commission of inquiry to know where all that money had gone, what pockets all that money had gone for conversion, and its party, the Socialist Party, with the complicity of the People's Party, opposed to creating that commission, something they will have to hide. Some will say that why I am commenting on this today, and I really believe that of those dusts these sludges, because if they had started when the transition process was supposed to have begun, today we would not be encountering mining regions engaged in desperation and depopulation. We are living a tremendous injustice that will once again pay for the usual ones: the workers and the mining regions. And let me tell you, Minister, that you have to assume one thing: count how many seats your group has in this House and leave parliamentary pride, because it is not fair that the afternoon before you took this royal decree to the Council of Ministers, just the afternoon before we are informed and informed of this royal decree without a prior dialogue with us - do not be surprised, the afternoon before, and you know it perfectly -. Since you wanted to talk to us, we proposed a dialogue and told you that we knew that this royal decree protected the agreement that had been reached with the social agents and the employer, we respected it, but we have denounced that there were some measures that were urgent and vital to us. One, they leave out more than four hundred workers, especially the workers of mining subcontracts; we proposed something as revolutionary as they had done the same jobs, what less that they enjoyed the same rights when you closed the sector. But you offer them a way out that we could say is the wild way out of the Pedro Sánchez government: to create a future job market. In particular, they propose to explore the possibility of improving the benefits of subcontract workers, mere declaration of intent, zero commitment on their part. That's not good for us, but it's the least that's not good for us, it's not good for the workers, they're aware that this isn't good for them and they're moving on. Madam Minister, the second claim we made to support this royal decree is to increase funding for the tasks of conversion and reactivation of mining areas and greater transparency throughout that process. Madam Minister, I say this directly to you: today we are talking about the coal mining sector, but this is only the beginning, it has a challenge ahead: to really tackle the energy transition in this country. We humbly believe that it is not facing it properly or measuring the impact of the reality we face. I give you an example: only in my land, in León, have we seen the closure of the thermal power plant of Anllares, all in the street and in unemployment. This same week we see the ERE of extinction of the subcontract of the power plant of Compostilla II, what do they offer them? The street and unemployment. We also have the closure of the La Robla plant, we say to him: they cannot offer them unemployment and a future job market, it is not real, it is not credible, it is a demeanor in itself. It is not normal for the energy transition in this country to continue to be marked by energy companies in this country. You have to plant them face and tell them you can't continue to operate on the law of the wild west. If you are willing to do so, count on us, if not, and don't call us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u125	For the same group, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u126	The government comes here to talk about a fair transition while burying what remains of private mining, leaving a very important part of the workers behind and without securing a future for the regions. More than four hundred subcontractors have been left out of the new framework, promising only one job market that is not known for when it will arrive, and until then it is not known how the workers will arrive. They allocate EUR 250 million to reactivation when the People's Party did not even implement those of the previous plan, and they have not yet paid the debt of EUR 214 million they have with Asturias in this matter. We have put everything on our side to reach an agreement with the Government that would improve this royal decree, there has been no way, but they still have time in the next budgets of the State. Meanwhile, from Asturias and León we will continue to fight for our future to fight against the depopulation to which their policies condemn us and also to which those of the People's Party previously condemned us. We will give them an opportunity, as we have already told them, in these General State Budgets, but to carry out a fair transition, and a fair transition is one that leaves no one behind, neither people nor regions. You have a chance to do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u127	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say my first words - which has to do with the order - to dedicate them to the rescue team of the mining brigade that is currently working to rescue the body of the child Julen. [[Applauds]] They are Asturian miners who reproduce very well the hardness of this work; people who go down to 70 meters deep to make with their hands a gallery and be able to dig and in this case rescue the body of a child; miners who do this every day for seven and eight hours. You can imagine what that job means. That's why I wanted to start with them, because I think they reproduce very well what we're talking about. I know that there are many people who are going to have the temptation today to talk about who is responsible for what, and surely the best answer would give us last week a girl during a demonstration with almost 7,000 people that was held in the Teruel mining basins in a village that has almost 7,000 inhabitants. Imagine how many people were there. That girl said to us: Stop talking about yourselves, stop blaming yourself and allow us to continue living here. That's what that little girl was telling us, and that's what we came here to talk about today. Today we have not come to talk about the plan for the closure of coal that was sent to Brussels in 2012 and 2016. We have not come here to talk about Law 15/2012, about fiscal measures for energy sustainability, which raised the price of coal and therefore made it impossible; we have not come here to talk about that. Today we have come to talk about the future and we have come to talk about how we solve the problems of thousands of people living in difficult territories, and the Socialist Party has its formula. The Socialist Group and the Socialist Government have their formula, first and foremost, with dialogue. Today we bring here a real decree that puts on paper the dialogue between trade unions, between employers and the different social actors. We have done nothing but give the word to those who know and who are every day in the mining basins, which are the unions and the employers. And they, within the hardness of their work, know how we can get all these people out, so the first formula is dialogue. Secondly, as the minister has said, we are going to do it without leaving anyone behind, in a fair way where the workers who have been carrying out such hard work will have a decent way out in decent living conditions; where the people who live in these basins will have more economic opportunities through the different funds that will be established not only for restoration and renewable energies, but also for industrial development, such as the Miner funds. So, we do it thinking about people. Do you know why we're the best guarantee to do this? Because we don't talk about ears. We don't talk about La Robla, Villabrino, Ariño, Labiana or Andorra because they told us about it; we talk about those municipalities because we are there and we know what has been done with that money for a very long time. I invite you to come and see the residences that have been built for the elderly, the companies that continue to operate and that are dedicated to cardboard or other activities. I invite you to come and meet the mining basins. We, who are there every day, know how hard it is to develop an area economically, so if someone goes up to this rostrum to say that that's easy they're fooling people. That is very difficult and you have to work very hard, so you can't tell people that this is a simple task, that has been done wrong, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not have succeeded in everything, but if we have done something, it has been hard work to make the mining basins better than they were. And if anyone tells people that that was much simpler than it has been, it's missing the truth. We've worked hard, so we've been recognized in the mining basins. They know who the Socialist Party is, because we, who are a centenary party - it was born there - have always been linked to them. We don't have to tell them who we are; they see us every day, they know us and they know how committed we are to that very complicated task, and as we know it's very complicated we tell the truth to people; we don't deceive them. We are telling you that this is the first step of many more that we will have to take, many more, because this is a just energy transition. And in order to be able to develop all that we will surely have to do more infrastructure, we will have to work on developing business projects in places where it is not always easy to develop a business project and where this energy transition, in this first step in which we are going to worry about the workers in the sector and to develop the first development funds, we will be very committed. It is true that in a few months there are elections and some are tempted to use in the political game the difficulty of the people, some have the temptation to make politics when people go wrong and I assure them that it is a very wrong way because they will only find disaffection and despair, but no solution. We are the party that best guarantees this exit because our goal is not only to develop the mining basins, it is to build a model of society with decent jobs, with decent living conditions, with strong social agents. That is why we give them the floor and dialogue. Our goal is not that the mining basins have any future, but that they have a worthy future. That is why we bring this first royal decree-law and we will surely bring many more measures to further develop these basins. I invite you all - and I have to say that I appreciate the tone in which we have been talking these days so that we can validate this royal decree-law - to be constructive, to worry about the citizens who live there, not to use this to throw the mess at our head, because people do not expect that from us, what they expect is for us to put solutions to them and not to recreate ourselves in their problems. So, as it could not be otherwise, my parliamentary group will support this royal decree-law and of course we trust it to come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Herrero Bono has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u130	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. This Government brings to this House its twenty-sixth decree-law for debate. This is the way this Government, on the basis of decrees, governs and eludes the General Courts. Madam Minister, the energy transition you are proposing is not fair, nor is the development of these regions sustainable. His royal decree-law confirms the disappearance of coal in Spain and this is his easy and easy way to finish our country's coal, close the mines and give pre-retirement. That is the real reindustrialization plan that you bring to our regions. Mrs Ribera, we in the People's Party are neither against these social aid nor against the pre-retirement for these workers, who deserve our respect, because it was precisely the People's Party government that has always ensured the sustainability of this country's social aid and pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree is the Minister's perfect strategy for charging thermal power stations and it is only because of the inability and political demagogy that you defend over an energy policy that runs counter to the economic and competitive interests of our companies. Mrs Ribera, defending thermals is also defending the security of energy supply in Spain, defending thermals is also defending the sustainability of the price of our energy, and defending thermals is also defending and respecting the Paris emissions agreements. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, your only purpose is to charge all that is related to coal, if not, how is it explained that you remove the green cent from the gas and do not do so to coal? Minister, tell your ladies and gentlemen, are the CO2 molecules of coal and gas emitted into the atmosphere different? The point is that the demonization of a technology leads us to a very serious problem for our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the coal supply is being loaded first by closing the mines; secondly, they bring this decree here to compensate the miners. Because there is no competitive coal, they have to shut down those who demand that coal, the thermal power plants. When the thermal power plants are closed they will have to compensate their workers and, in the absence of thermal power, as stated by IMO and the conclusions of that committee of experts, the price of electricity rises by 15%. The consequence is that almost all of us know it: the elimination of the whole of Spain's electro-intensive industry. In just seven months of government you have managed that the plants of Alcoa, Avilés and A Coruña, request the closure of their factories putting in danger more than seven hundred workers; the closure of the factory of wind turbines of Vestas, with which another four hundred workers are going to go home, or that of Cemex, which has just announced the closure of two of its seven plants in Spain, sending nearly two hundred workers to an extinction of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the government of the Socialist Party, this is the government of unemployment, this is the government of job destruction, this is the government that once in a while destroys the economy of this country. This is the government that returns us to Mr Zapatero's Spain. I find it difficult to think, Minister, how it will be possible for you to come to Andorra tomorrow, in my region, when you are the one who, with your bad decisions, puts an end to a region and puts a whole province in danger and hurts to death. Please, minister, take the Falcon, go look for your president, go to Brussels and call for elections, because the Spaniards will be very grateful to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u131	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, APPROVING URGENT MEASURES ON ARTISTICAL CREATION AND CINEMATOGRAPHY. [[File number 130/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u132	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 26/2018, of 28 December, approving urgent measures on artistic creation and cinematography. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to do today before I ask you to vote to validate the Royal Decree-Law which the Government adopted on 28 December is to show my gratitude for the work done by this House in drawing up and approving unanimously the report on the status of the artist. It should be a cause for celebration for all to have reached consensus precisely in a regulation that favors our artistic, cultural and symbolic production and protects the members of our society who make it possible and in some cases find themselves in unjust helplessness. There was and continues to be a social demand for the professionalization of a sector that employs just over six hundred thousand people in Spain. That is why I would first like to thank the members of the Committee on Culture of this House, which constituted the subcommittee on the status of the artist, which is the result of his exemplary work. It is important to highlight the climate of collaboration in which the work has developed, as well as the willingness of the many professionals and associations who have gone through this house to share with the subcommission their impressions, experiences and proposals to try to improve and banish the precariousness that the sector suffers. The Royal Decree-Law adopted on 28 December 2018 is the first step in the way indicated by the subcommission. Some of the measures envisaged, of course not all, have been included in this decree, but those whose implementation had a more easily solved legal complexity. It is the will of the Ministry of Culture and Sport to continue to promote the measures included in the status of the artist and which does not contain this decree. The legal form chosen for the implementation of the measures - the Royal Decree-Law - meets the criteria of exceptionality and urgency. Given the unanimity at the plenary session of the Congress on September 6, 2018, the most appropriate thing has been to formalize the reforms without further delay. On the other hand, as you know, these reforms also depend on the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security and the Ministry of Finance, and affect fiscal exercises. I would like to thank both ministries who have collaborated with this Ministry of Culture and Sport. The Royal Decree-Law allows the measures to have entered into force since 1 January; otherwise we should have waited until 2020, an unnecessary delay in implementing measures with which we have achieved unanimity. I will now focus on the main points that have been approved in this first phase, which have to do with taxation, labour and social security protection, and compatibility between retirement benefits and copyright revenues. The first point concerns tax measures. Article 101(4) of Law 35/2006 of 28 November of the Income Tax on Natural Persons has been amended. This amendment reduces from 19 to 15 % the retention rate that applies to capital gains from copyright in the event that the taxpayer is not the author himself. A second point that I want to detail here also concerns tax measures and cultural works and shows. An amendment has been made to article 91.1.2 of Law 37/1992 of 28 December, which regulates value added tax. In this case, the VAT reduction applies to services provided by interpreters, artists, directors and technicians as natural persons. From now on, the tax rate is reduced from 21 % to 10 %. Thirdly, Act No. 27/2014 of the Corporation Tax Act, which already provided for tax incentives for cinematography and audiovisual arts, has also been amended. In this case, the amendment has been set out in Article 26(2) with a view to protecting cinematography and encouraging filming in the territory of our country. The obligations to be assumed by film producers are therefore repealed if they wish to benefit from tax deductions for international productions in Spain. It is incorporated in the Royal Decree-Law that a regulatory change is made for the establishment of replacement obligations. The purpose of this measure is to promote the cinematographic and audiovisual arts in both their industrial and artistic aspects, something with which this ministry has a strong commitment to the conviction of its economic and cultural value. A fourth article affects artists' contributions during their periods of inactivity and amends Article 17 of Title II of the Consolidated Text of the General Law on Social Security, which was approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 of 30 October. In this case, a new fourth section has been added with the title Artists in public spaces, which points out that artists in public shows will be able to continue to be included in the General Social Security Regime during their period of inactivity, of course if they wish, and meeting a number of requirements. The contribution shall be monthly and shall be made at a rate of 11.5 %. Among the various benefits of this provision is extended, for example, the protective action for cultural workers through financial benefits for maternity and paternity, permanent incapacity, retirement and the situation of pregnant or breastfeeding workers, during which women workers cannot develop their work. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is one of the most obvious cases in which the implementation of these measures facilitates conciliation and promotes equal rights. The next point deals with a situation that has raised quite a lot of social demand and, therefore, is perhaps one of the most outstanding elements of the artist's status. I am referring to the compatibility of the retirement pension and the activity of artistic creation. This implies another amendment to the General Social Security Act. The Government gave itself a maximum period of six months for the adoption of a regulatory regulation regulating this compatibility of the collection of intellectual property rights, which so far required a choice between the collection of labour yields and the collection of copyrights with a very low limit, resulting in a situation of flagrant injustice with which many authors had been found. This six-month period, which has been given by the Government, will try to shorten it to the maximum. The fair recognition of their dedication and contribution to culture comes first of all by guaranteeing them what they have earned over a working life. Recognition of compatibility involves a solidarity contribution of 8 %, corresponding to 6 % of the employer's share and 2 % of the employee's share in the case of employed persons. In conclusion, the third final provision of this Royal Decree-Law regulates the special employment relationship of artists in public performances and establishes a period of six months to replace Royal Decree 1435/1985 of 1 August. The multitude of interviews with different individuals and associates has allowed the subcommission to understand the particularities of artistic activities, including intermittentness, temporality and irregularity, which advise the adoption of measures such as those we are adopting today. The implementation of this first series of measures envisaged in the Royal Decree-Law 26/2018 of 28 December, seeks the professionalization of a sector that is too often dragged into precariousness, which weakens the fabric of culture and the economy in general, and also seeks the correction of a series of labour and fiscal inequalities that have negatively affected the natural development of cultural production. We must not lose sight of the fact that one of our country's most valuable resources is its cultural wealth. All measures aimed at their protection and encouragement, which are some of the missions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, will revert to the benefit of society as a whole. It is the will of this ministry to continue to develop the other measures contemplated in the artist's statute and which does not contain this royal decree. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to defend this royal decree-law, the first legal effect of an artist's status that has come forward thanks to a coral effort. This is a merit of the professionals who have come so generously to expose their circumstances, of the Committee on Culture of Congress, of the public opinion that has demonstrated sensitivity to understand the needs of the cultural sector and of the plenary of this House, which has approved the text that constitutes a solid support for the future. The unanimity that has earned the origin of this order is a source of joy and pride for all because it reveals the agreement on the value of our cultural production and of those who dedicate themselves to it. It is good that this unanimity is maintained in the validation of this royal decree-law, which is a first step, as I have told you before, necessary and urgent, in the right direction, which is the one established by your lordships when approving the report of the status of the artist. After this step, all the necessary must come for the strengthening of our culture, which is also the strengthening of our prosperity, our peaceful coexistence and our freedom, a path that - I am convinced - we will make with the unity born of dialogue and cooperation. On the basis of that unity and cooperation, the groups have asked us to be treated as a law and there is no objection on the part of the Government that that is so. I thank everyone involved in this work. I hope that, with the support of your ladies and gentlemen, it will also be a day of praise for culture, for those who believe it and for those who enjoy it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am glad that you announced that it will be dealt with as a bill because it was fundamental to us. Our group shares this line of protection to culture and in the Canary Islands is already a reality that since 2017, access to theatrical, musical, cinematographic and audiovisual performances is a tribute to the reduced tax rate of the IGIC. Also in the same context of attention to the special difficulties of artists was approved in the last amendment of the Economic and Fiscal Regime the freedom of transfer of the goods exposed from or to the Canary Islands without therefore having any tax or customs, which was a historical requirement. However, I would like to point out to you that there is a difficulty in the Canary Islands which is identical to that which they try to resolve by retroactively modifying the deduction by international shoots in company tax. As you know, the new REF recovers the canary tax differential for foreign production shoots that we had lost in 2017 and whose introduction we agreed in that framework. It was approved in November, but the delay in the final adoption of Law 8/2018 has caused that, as with the requirement of certain requirements in the rest of the state, there have been current shoots during 2018 that already had this differential and that precisely because of their presence they decanted their part in the location of the shoots in the Canary Islands. As has been stated here and repeated in the Royal Decree, this type of activity has a very long time planning and the disruption of the envisaged regulatory framework can lead to withdrawals from the presence of foreign entities and, therefore, harm to Spanish producers who would have to bear the cost of the difference provided. The entry into force of the new text for tax periods starting from 7 November 2018 is de facto an elimination of the possibility of going to this incentive for the year 2018, since for most of the entities that were entitled to the deduction begins their tax period on 1 January, so we would accumulate two years of non-application of the differential and throw down the progress we have made jointly during the last year. This is an issue which needs to be settled and which has the same purpose as the rule they bring today to validate and for which I also request your support, Minister. For these reasons, I am in advance of my positive vote, as well as for it to be treated as a bill as well. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u137	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. The unanimity with which the status of the artist was approved in the subcommission I believe obliges and commits us all to those recommendations that came out, as I said, with very clear support, go forward and become what they should be, measures that provide creators and artists with better working conditions. The fiscal and labour measures that are included in the text - and which the minister brings us here today to a large extent - are a first sign of the minister's willingness to push forward, to believe and to have taken the text that this House approved seriously. That is why you will find us at your side when it comes to that; if the text is treated as a bill you will find us at your side to push for the necessary measures. I still have to ask you for two things, minister. The first is that we understand that we have not reached the end of the journey, but that we are only halfway there; I congratulate you on having started, which is not a small one, but it is true that there is still a way to go. The second thing I ask of you, Minister, is that the path that remains for us to go along is to talk and share experiences, but not only with the groups this House, but also with the entities of the sector that are waiting for these measures and that need information to flow - because they are interested in knowing where we are - and, above all, they need to know the intentions and wills of the Government to get those measures to come to fruition. This concludes and, as I have told you, you will find all the support of my group in this validation of the royal decree. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u139	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presented for validation with a royal decree establishing a series of measures included in the artist's statute, a statute repeatedly demanded. These are measures, ultimately, of support for artistic creation, having been many of them agreed and approved as recommendations by this Congress of Deputies, in September, with a view to the elaboration of the status of the artist and which include measures relating to taxation, labour protection, social security and compatibility between public benefits and copyright charges. Thus, VAT is reduced from 21 % to 10 % for services provided by interpreters, artists, directors, technicians, producers of cinematographic films likely to be exhibited in showrooms, organizers of theatrical and musical works, thus returning to the situation of 2012. The rate of withholding tax on the income of natural persons applicable to transferable capital income from intellectual property, where the taxpayer is not the author, is also reduced from 19 to 15 %. In addition, the company tax is amended in relation to the deduction for expenses incurred in Spanish territory for the execution of foreign production of feature films or audiovisual works, which allow the production of a physical medium prior to its serial industrial production and whose objective is to promote the production of international cinema in Spain and, therefore, eliminating the obligations that film producers had to assume in order to benefit from the tax deduction, to produce international cinema in Spain, set out in the Law on General Budgets of the year 2018. As regards the tax measures that we have just seen, and given that the historical territories have jurisdiction over corporate tax and PRTI, I must say that, in addition to the fact that some measure has already been envisaged at fiscal level, we must point out that the title of competition does not mention this fact, however, which is taken into account as regards the powers of the autonomous communities in the field of culture. On the other hand, the decree adds a new article to the General Act on Social Security, which provides for contributions to the general social security scheme during periods of inactivity on a voluntary basis for artists of public performances, provided that they meet certain requirements. These periods also include any type of benefit such as maternity, paternity, retirement or common contingencies. Finally, the Government gave itself a period of six months to adopt a specific regulation for the compatibility of the retirement pension with the collection of copyright. On the other hand, we do note that some measures include concepts that need to be improved, as they can lead to some legal uncertainty, for example when talking about certain terms such as susceptibility. We will therefore also request that it be treated as a bill. As the ultimate objective of this royal decree is to ensure an adequate performance of the artistic activity, taking into account its peculiarities and understanding that what is at stake is to guarantee the rights and duties of artists, creators and professionals of the world of culture, ultimately to improve the situation of people working for culture and, although there is still a way to go but understanding that this decree represents a step towards putting into effect this legislative agenda which adopts in part the measures developed in the report on the status of the artist, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u140	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u141	Thank you, President. Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the prompt response to a historic demand from the cultural sector that has repeatedly been neglected to this day. I will be brief, the actual decree-law of emergency measures on artistic creation and cinematography starts from the demands contained in the opinion of the status of the artist that we remember was approved unanimously. This justifies urgency and justifies unanimous positioning in that regard on this law. As a matter of fact, I was already playing. It's a subject that's been pending for many years and I was playing a leap forward. [[The lady]] In general, the opinion calls for recognition of the specific nature of the work of creators, artists and cultural professionals. In fact, it is to be thanked for the consideration given by the decree-law to this specificity, since in no case does it involve a request for privileges, as it might seem, with respect to other fields of work, but rather, unfortunately, it refers to a historical abnormality of lack of regularization and, ultimately, recognition of the sector; a scenario that has been perpetuating and deepening precisely in the precariousness of the worker and the cultural worker. This decree-law comes to regulate historical deficits in the cultural sector in areas such as labor and the prosecutor, and simply for that reason is already a very important contribution. The opinion on the status of the artist considers that the different proposals collected are not much less complex and their technical application is easy to implement. In fact, speed shows that they are viable and realistic measures that allow rapid implementation of certain proposals in the opinion. On the other hand, the economic impact of the implementation of these proposals is not only manageable at the collection level, but also reactive for the cultural sector. Perhaps this is the most important thing: they can and will be a reagent for the cultural sector; a sector, let us remember, precarious and in a situation of crisis for a long time. In this regard, the Royal Decree responds to measures that our group highly appreciates, as they directly affect the worker and the cultural worker. I will refer to some of them without the will to extend; I will only mention those that we consider to be very important contributions, such as measures that recognize the intermittent nature of cultural work and, consequently, the irregular basis of its performance. We are talking about income-promediation measures, therefore, it is an adaptation of the labour framework on concrete specificity or on one of the specificities of cultural work. The regularization of expenditure deduction is another very important point. The reduction of returns from intellectual property on behalf of the IRPF, for example, is another key element, or measures on economic activity tax, the IAE; as well as measures such as the application of reduced VAT to the full cycle of cultural creation. Because it was important to apply reduced VAT not only on one sector but also to try to cover as much as possible the entire cycle of creation itself. - It was an issue that remained pending in the previous legislature. We also talk about measures in the field of labour protection and social security, such as the one that recognizes precisely the regime of inactivity of artists. I believe that this is a real adaptation of the irregular situation of the cultural worker. Important points remain to be resolved. To point out one, the lack of recognition of the different contribution groups in the cultural sector, which is a deficit that could be resolved perfectly with the updating of the headings, but which is an issue that is pending. I suppose it must be a matter of difficulty, but it is an obligation to finish regularizing and sort out a little what the different groups that contribute within the cultural sector would be. To conclude, welcome is this decree-law that we will vote in favour, although we hope that in the short term those proposals that have not been included can be met. In any case, it is our will to make sure that some of those proposals, such as those we have pointed out so far, are precisely included, by others who may appear and finish matifying what this project would be. We will vote in favour of the bill being processed in order to finalize the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm going to start wrong; I'm going to start by telling you that for us this royal decree was an immense disappointment. It was a text that the deeper I went into his reading, the more convinced I was that either the artist's status had not been read or, more worryingly, that they had read it to him but had not understood it. Of course, it is also true that this Committee on Culture - I do not know how much time I have left in the convent - is a Commission where we are pleased to work because we have communication, because we have dialogue, because we all fight and fight to advance culture, to improve the conditions of our artists, and because you said at the end of your speech that we are going to process this royal decree-law as a bill - worth the redundancy -, it makes me see - I am sure it will be so - that this text is going to improve and that we are going to solve the shortcomings that I believe were in this royal decree. I will point out some of them; for example, in the second final provision I believe that there is a small collage, a small mess, and we are confusing the compatibility of copyright with the perception of retirement, with which it would be possible for retired artists to maintain artistic activity without endangering their pension, and that they also contribute 8% of that income to the common box, generate or not that activity copyright; because, as the text is developed, it only applies to those artistic activities that do generate copyright; thus, we could allow this compatibility to writers and musicians, but not to painters and doblers. This is a question that remains somewhat blurred and I believe that with the amendments to this bill it will be clear. Also in the replacement of Royal Decree 1435/1985, where we have to enable the necessary channels of communication between the Administration, between the Committee on Culture and all cultural associations, in order to improve this Royal Decree with flexibility and solvency. - Communication and dialogue. Another thing we were very concerned about was the second title of this royal decree as regards the contributions for the periods of inactivity of the artists; it does not cover temporary incapacity; it is not priced for unemployment; it is complex, it is confusing; you are forced to apply between 1 and 15 January, so, if you are out of work in March you cannot accept this system of contribution; it is not functional for the vast majority of the artists - it was a bad patch -. In addition, in my first reading it seemed to me that what we had managed to achieve was to facilitate access to maternity leave, but not at all, because since the Social Security Treasury must be informed that you are hosting this system between 1 and 15 January, for example, a dancer who became pregnant in December or March could not benefit from this system; she would have to become pregnant between November and August, by royal decree-law! So they are little things that I am sure we are going to settle and we are going to move forward with the consensus and dialogue that characterizes this Committee on Culture. You were confusing temporality and seasonality with the intermitency of the cultural sector, and we have to understand that it is not the same temporality and seasonality as intermitency and specificity of cultural work. I will give you a very brief example of what lack of sensitivity is, not of you or of the Government, but of the Administration. A rule has just been applied to reduce contracts of less than five days to which a 40% surcharge is applied in social security contributions in general and not in this royal decree. This may seem like a decision that can be good for lowering these types of contracts of less than five days, but it is that in the cultural sector it is our daily bread, they are usual contracts in the cultural sector. Thus, if the wording had meant that a 40% surcharge on social security contributions would have been applied to contracts of less than five days, except for artistic contracts, it would have been settled. That lack of sensitivity, which is not even attributed to the Government, but to the functioning of the Administration, is what we have to transfer to that Administration in order to improve this royal decree. I'm done, President. We will support the validation of this royal decree-law because it is true that there are advances, although much better, but there are and we will not oppose them. [[The Lord]] As it is going to be dealt with by bill, in our parliamentary group we are satisfied and show the willingness to continue working with my colleagues in this Commission so that sooner rather than later, this royal decree-law is a great advance for culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. Mr Maura Zorita has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u144	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the vote of my group will be in favour of this real decree, a royal decree which is ultimately the first tangible result of a parliamentary process in which obviously the protagonists of the groups have been important, also that of the social fabric, both organized and at individual level, through people with special knowledge who have helped us throughout the whole process. It is a good gesture on the part of the Government and this minister that it is being treated as a bill, and it is also another opportunity to continue to influence this mechanics, in that way of working that has produced good results - therefore, let us not change what works - and we will therefore also vote in favour of it being treated as a bill. Two reflections on the content of the royal decree. First of all, it is essential that we understand that culture is a word in addition to very political, very polysemic. Of course, it is a constitutionally recognized right in article 44.1; it is also part of our common heritage, it is common good; it is a relevant productive sector and it is also a work. The culture for hundreds of thousands of people is a job. When we bring into this House real decrees as we do today for cultural workers, to equal their rights and to equal their opportunities, but we also do so for all people, for all ordinary people and for all that citizenship that without these real decrees and without the legislative work we do in this legislature would see how the right to access to culture, which they have in the 1978 Constitutional Treaty, would simply be impossible. We cannot defend the right to access to culture unless we protect those cultural workers who are precisely responsible for making such a thing possible. Therefore, we do it for the sector, for the people who are professionally dedicated to culture and we do it also for the whole citizenry. On the ground of the Royal Decree 26/2018 of 28 December, I note only that it is a text that largely captures the work of the subcommission for the elaboration of a statute of the artist and of the workers of culture - to quote words of their official title - and that it does so in a sense that seems to us positive. It seems to us that they are measures of social advancement and advancement in the field of cultural legislation; they are measures that reflect the spirit of the text and try to clarify it in a way that is in most cases fortunate. It is also true that with this royal decree we do not solve all the problems, and I am not referring only to the problems that are not in the text, I am referring to the problems that are in the text, some of which are of great complexity. To give an example: the reduction of VAT from the normal rate to the reduced rate for the provision of services in cultural activities for natural persons is a positive measure, however, it is not able to solve the problem that we have with the false autonomous in the field of culture. It is true that now those who provide services and who do so, for example, as a wage supplement to their productive activity, to their exhibition or stage activity, will be favored by taxing 10%, but we will continue to have a problem of self-employed fakes. We must continue to work, we must continue to cooperate so that this first step, this first station is not the one of arrival, but one more on a longer journey. With regard to the reduction of VAT, another minor problem is the scope. Obviously, it seems to us very well - the ministry is familiar with this problem - that it applies to natural persons, but we also want that, over time, we can extend its scope so that, in a sector of SMEs, SMEs can also benefit and provide their services with VAT at the reduced rate. This could also be said of the inactivity quota, which has the glue that it is not invocable throughout the year and, therefore, can be given cases such as those which were somewhat exaggerated by Mr Alvarez, but which he was saying not entirely without reason. In any case, we are in cooperative logic. The first step is obvious, I think it is even a second step. The good things we have are going to build on the legislative procedure; in which we may be able to intervene with a small touch we can certainly do very well in this parliamentary procedure, if we continue with the logic in which we are working; therefore, it is almost all good news that we bring today. Let's give us some room to go to work. Thank you for the effort to all the people who have been involved over the years - because we have already talked about years working on this matter - and, above all, I would like to point out that we learn to be braver, to help all of us to be braver. A few hours ago Lolo Rico died, on whose program, well known, The Crystal Ball, it used to say that of: You just can't; with friends, yes. [[applause]] This is something that also applies to parliamentary practice. This government alone cannot; with friends, yes; only this Parliament cannot; with friends who are inside and outside, yes, it can; let us learn to make our lives in that sense a little easier, a little more productive and a little more cooperative. Thanks for everything and we'll keep going. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura. For the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u146	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 September we adopted the report drawn up by the subcommittee on the drafting of the artist's statute in plenary and unanimously by all the groups in the House. On 28 December, the Government adopted the royal decree of emergency measures on artistic creation, which today, 22 January, presents to Congress for validation. So it all seems fast and easy, but the reality is quite different. To a large extent this royal decree originated at the end of 2014, when a number of creators, already retired, received social security letters informing them of harsh economic sanctions for having collected the copyright of their works as well as their retirement pensions. If, instead of rights as authors, they had collected the same amounts as rental income or shares dividends, they would not have had any incompatibility. That is, if instead of writing books they would have dedicated their active lives to buying flats and renting them or speculating on a stock exchange, they would have had no problem with public administrations. I should quote here today many names of people and organizations who have worked to make politicians aware of the unfairness of this and other situations that harm our artists and creators and that the actual decreeley that is presented today for validation by the Government is trying to resolve; but I will only refer by its name to someone who represents all of them well and the commitment of all of them and who has not been able to see this day. I mean Antonio Fraguas, our admired Forges, who so many times snatched a smile from us, who so many smiles gave us and who left with the sadness of seeing in the last days of his life entangled in a Kafkian maze. [[applause]] They say that many years ago a minister of public administration had in his office a vignette of Forges in which someone in the elevator of a ministry asked a citizen to which floor he was going. The citizen replied: I don't care, I'm willing to lose all morning. In a way, what has happened to our retired creators happened on the same dates to a much larger number of retirees who were emigrants in the 1960s and 1970s. Neither were people willing to defraud the public sector, but were victims of increasingly dense and confusing regulations. Whether it is a creator or any other citizen, we should not allow people to be troubled at the stage of their life that must be joyful, victims of a legal and administrative complexity that is not always just. In the case of creators and artists, I also feel that they have been propitiatory victims, because I believe that what has been and continues to be is a certain insensitivity towards them. At some point they were labeled caste and already know their lords from their own experience what happens when they are labeled caste: that these people become privileged candidates - that is, exemplary punishments, whether in the networks, in the media or in the public administrations, carried out by enthusiastic vigilantes who nest everywhere and are nothing exemplary. This is not understood as a reproach - it is not the day - but as a reflection out loud. [[Applauds]] Increasingly complex and uninhabitable legislation, a certain insensitivity to the cultural sector and an uncertainty derives from sectors of our society towards preventive lynching and 'in case' have contributed to creating the problem and the difficulty of solving the problem which, as we all know, has not been so easy and has not been so rapid. The truth is that it took us four years to put a remedy to this situation; and all of us are convinced that it should be remedied. I am convinced that no one has ever consciously legislated for things to be like this and the proof is unanimity in the agreement to solve this and other problems that affect our creators, but it is the legislation that has given rise to unfair situations for them and harmful for our country, because it is bad for a country that protects bricks more than ideas. [[Applauds]] It does not seem today to be the day for excessive criticism, but if anyone does not deserve it, it is the Government, which has presented these first steps with all urgency. We also deserve our recognition, in addition to the Ministry of Culture and Minister Guirao, the Ministers of Labour and Finance. As Minister Guirao pointed out in his speech, this is the first legislative harvest of the report on the status of the artist, but, as the Minister also said, it is not going to be the only or the largest; it is only the first and the most urgent. In Congress and the Government, we will continue to work together and loyally to deepen the improvements contained in the report and in the improvements set out in the Royal Decree-Law that we are going to process as a bill; and we will do so with the opinion and assistance of the organizations in the cultural sector, which are so important and which we must thank so much. With that thank you, I want to finish my speech. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mr Lorenzo Torres.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for your words of appreciation for the work of the subcommittee. It is true that we all did a job together and that all of us who participated in it are very pleased that in the end we were able to adopt the statute unanimously. I remember that the day we approved it here we heard very nice words; we talked about justice with the cultural sector, we talked about it as a historic day and we even talked about it as a revolutionary day. Today you bring here the first royal decree developing this statute and I have to tell you that there is a great disappointment in the cultural sector, because the expectations we have offered you have not been met. I remember that when we were negotiating and talking about the statute a Member always said to me: Miguel, you have to be ambitious, you have to be ambitious. That ambition that we had to elaborate, to look for those measures, today in this royal decree I do not find it. I believe that this decree is a sham, a series of short measures - that some are fine, no doubt - but that they do not arrive. You said in your speech that we are taking a short step, but I believe that we are taking a very short step, that the cultural sector expected a great deal more from this government and from this royal decree. At least, I am glad that there is unanimity in the whole House to deal with it through a bill, because we can all continue to do that collective work, that work that we all did together, that work that was a pool because we are all concerned about the cultural sector and I think we can make great contributions, because I find that in this royal decree there are many defects. Look, I'm going to tell you something that maybe you don't know about the VAT reduction. It is very good to reduce VAT in transactions between artists and producers, but it only concerns natural persons. I do not know if you know that in this country there was labour legislation and there was tax legislation, and that they contradicted each other; for example, many bands of music had to be set up in commercial societies, either S.L., or associated labor cooperatives, or labor societies, in order to be able to bill, forced by the Labour Inspectorate. Now these music bands cannot go to reduced VAT. I therefore believe that when this bill is dealt with, we will have to make such corrections. As for the artists and the inactivity fee, look, you have to take a walk. I know that you have not done this, which comes from the ministry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, but here there are things that are unacceptable, some have already been denounced by my colleagues. A person in the month of March cannot discharge himself into the system, exits and entrances into the system are not at all well regulated. Neither the income requirements nor the amount; this is being copied a little bit from the agrarian regime and we do not know why artists are required a minimum amount of income to enter. The elimination for the purpose of regularisation of remuneration is not good either, and there is no specific model for unemployment benefit. But I'm going to talk about some other things that were also said, that some I assume because when you talk the last one some of the things you can avoid. Additional provisions. In Galicia there is a phrase that is: I do what I do and I do nothing. This looks to me like the phage I make that I don't do anything. You are deferring to six more months the regulation of the special relationship of artists that is so necessary, but above all postpones to six more months the ability to reconcile the retirement pension with the collection of copyright. When we were in the Commission the common denominator that all the people who intervened there said that this problem had to be solved already, and today his colleague Torres has said - he mentioned it here - that there were people who during the last years of his life had gone through tremendously badly because they were involved in legal problems, and also unintentionally, because they had suddenly withdrawn their pension because they had collected copyright. Then they can't wait another six months. We cannot let these people wait six more months; I think you must hurry. If Mr Sánchez, the president of the government, took a Falcon to go to a concert by The Killers, in Benicassim, to get there faster, because I also ask you quickly in this, to take the Falcon of the government initiative and as soon as possible regulate this situation. [[Applauds]] You yourself described the situation as flagrant injustice. When we regulate this, we will have to think about how to repair the people who have suffered this injustice, because where the law wants, it can, and that is one of the issues that we have to put into value. Look, when a few days ago I presented in the city of La Coruña the budgets that his government drew up, I called them shame and talked about marginalization. I do not mean that this is a shame, but it is a real disappointment, because this royal decree is very short on the measures that were agreed in the statute, and not 10% of the measures that were agreed are reflected in this decree. I hope that we can continue to work and that we all work together, but I demand a little bit of speed. I also speak of marginalization, and I do maintain this, because this royal decree was drafted without all associations, and there are protests. The Association of Actors and Actress has already issued a statement protesting the regulation in relation to inactivity. Therefore, we must also continue with that work of listening to society, of listening to artists to know what their needs really are. There's a lot of work to be done. We must continue to do so. My partner said Mr. Maura that you can't alone, with friends yes. I believe that we will continue to work on this issue in the Commission as friends, because we are seeking historical reparation for the world of culture, but if you want our support, you have to work more, you have to tell your Government that this patching policy is not worth it, that this screen policy is not worth it, that this policy of staying well, of the phage I do and I do nothing. These measures remain very short. There are seventy-five measures in the statute. We have to work hard, but out there they have been waiting a long time for these measures. For example, the article we have to amend from Social Security, Article 213, has been since 2015, and you are going to give yourself six more months. It's just that we're not talking about six months since the statute or six more months, but they're waiting since 2015 for that rule to change that article. You now rule and have the responsibility. The statute was approved when you were here ruling, that way, but it was approved. You now have the responsibility; I do not have it, which no longer governs. And since you promised these people that you were going to solve their problems, you have to do it. And six months is a long time for people who are suffering from lawsuits. As one of the people who has intervened today said, there are people within the world of culture who are in need, and who are in need because they have taken away their retirement pension and because they have suffered sanctions for these processes. You said it: an injustice. We must repair it, because we, as legislators, have the capacity to repair injustices, especially towards a sector as punished as always as the cultural sector. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorenzo. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 28/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, FOR THE REVALORIZATION OF PUBLIC PENSIONS AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN SOCIAL, WORKING AND EMPLOYMENT MATTERS. [[File number 130/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u150	We now discuss the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 28/2018 of 28 December 2018 for the revaluation of public pensions and other urgent measures in social, labour and employment matters. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On 28 December 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted the Royal Decree-Law 28/2018, for the revaluation of public pensions and other urgent measures in the field of social, labour and employment, whose validation I ask this House today. This royal decree-law addresses a very important number of issues that undoubtedly involve a strengthening of social protection, among others, the upgrading of pensions by 2019 and the improvement of the protective action of the Special System of Self-Employed Workers. It is accompanied by measures to strengthen the income of the social security system, as well as include labour and employment measures which were necessary to be in force from 1 January 2019. The aim of the measures taken in the field of social security is clear: to advance the improvement of the balance between the expenditure and income of our social security system, ensuring sustainability from all perspectives: financial, social and political. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law already reflects the pre-agreement reached in the Toledo Pact in relation to its recommendation 2, which is to ensure the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions. Moreover, in this year pensions will rise above the cost of living, as the planned CPI is around 1.2 %. The Royal Decree-Law includes the revaluation of more than 10.3 million pensions and other public benefits for this year 2019, generally increasing them by 1.6% and 3% the minimum non-contributory pensions and those of the Compulsory Old Age and Invalidity Insurance. In addition, more than 414,000 people, mostly women, will benefit from the improvement in the percentage increase applicable to the widowhood benefit regulatory base, which will increase from 56% to 60%. That improvement, if this royal decree-law is validated, which I hope it will, will see its effects on January 1st. This revaluation is complemented by a payment to all pensioners of 0,1 %, as this is the difference between the revaluation of 1,6 % applied in 2018 and 1,7 % resulting from the calculation of the average monthly CPI for the last 12 months. And it will be on this amount on which the revaluation of all pensions for this budget year will apply. Ensuring the revaluation of public pensions in order to maintain their purchasing power is considered a measure of extraordinary and urgent necessity, as required by article 86 of the Constitution, and should be addressed without waiting for the adoption of the State General Budgets Act for this year in order to avoid the application of the revaluation formula set out in article 58 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act and in article 27 of the State Passive Classes Act, since its application would have determined that public pensions were increased by only 0.25 per cent for this year, thereby harming pensioners. In the special system of household employees - rather employed because they are in the vast majority of women - new levels of contributions are established, the 20% reduction in business contributions, i.e. head of household who hire an employee or an employee from the household is maintained, and full alignment with the general scheme is advanced to the year 2021. As a result of the social dialogue and the agreement with the representatives of the various associations, representing more than 2.5 million self-employed workers, a number of reforms are also being undertaken so that, with the effect of 1 January 2019, the full range of voluntary contingencies, such as professional contingencies and the provision of a cessation of activity, can be incorporated into their scope of protection on a mandatory basis, while improving their length of time to the extent that the period of receipt of their subscription doubles with that provided for in the previous legislation. In the case of sick leave, self-employed workers may not pay the social security contribution from day 61 of temporary incapacity. And what I also consider important: autonomous mothers are allowed to pay a flat fee of EUR 60 in the 24 months following reinstatement after maternity leave. In addition, there is coverage of a situation long demanded by the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, the Cermi, whereby self-employed women workers who in a way happen to be considered as persons with disabilities above 33 %, on the basis of this royal decree-law they will be able to access the framework of incentives and employment support available to these entrepreneurs. You know that self-employment is a fundamental part of our labour market, regenerating wealth and being a key element in job creation in our country. For this reason, in order to stimulate and reinforce the increase in the flow of entry into the labour market and the entrepreneurial activity of self-employed workers, a number of benefits have been incorporated through this rule into the contribution. The lack of approved budgets for 2019 and the need for automatic extension of those of 2018 have imposed on us the need to address through this royal decree-law the increase of the maximum and minimum bases of contribution of the different regimes of the system, as well as the fixing of the new types of contribution for the RETA. However, with regard to the RETA, we are committed to establishing a new system this year, bearing in mind that the contribution base will be established on the basis of actual income. The purpose of this amendment is to support the increase in expenditure which implies the improvement of the protective area which this rule entails by ensuring the financial viability of the social security system, which, as you know, is one of the priorities of this ministry. In this regard, I would also like to highlight the 7 % increase in the maximum social security contribution base and the 22.3 % increase in the minimum contribution base in the percentage experienced for 2019 by the inter-branch minimum wage. On the other hand, the fourth transitional provision of the General Social Security Act is extended for a further year, until 2020, so that persons whose employment relationship was extinguished before 1 April 2013 may continue to be eligible for retirement under the requirements and conditions prior to Law 27/2011 of 1 August 2013, provided that, after that date, they are not included again in any of the social security system regimes, as well as persons with suspended or extinguished employment relationship as a result of decisions taken in employment regulation files or through collective agreements of any kind or collective enterprise agreements, as well as decisions taken in approved, signed or declared competition procedures prior to 1 April 2013, provided that the termination or suspension of employment relationship takes place before 1 January 2020. With regard to unemployment protection, the Royal Decree-Law reduces the minimum number of days required to access the unemployment benefit or agrarian income in the system of temporary workers, from 35 to 20 days, with the aim of alleviating the difficulties of their accreditation in order to be entitled to this protection, taking into account the torrential rains that occurred last October in the provinces of Seville, Cadiz and Malaga. On the other hand, I also announce that, by amendment, the General Budgets of the State will amend the quota for inactivity of agricultural workers on behalf of others - commonly known as the stamp - to minimise the increase in their amount, and Article 196 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act will be amended in relation to the minimum amount of the total permanent disability pension for persons under the age of 60. Finally, in the area of social security, I would also like to point out that, in order to put an end to the unprotected situation in which many young people who practice in companies find themselves, it is envisaged that these young people will be included in the general social security scheme as assimilated to employed persons. I want to make it clear that this is a measure which, even if this royal decree-law is validated, has not yet entered into force. Its entry into force will be through regulatory development, which will be accompanied by support measures to facilitate such inclusion. We will have flexibility in this regulation so that in any case this is a measure that improves the situation of young people who practice and dignifies their situation by bringing it into line with labour and social security regulations. Finally, there are also improvements that will affect the system of compatibility of allowances for persons with disabilities. With regard to labour and employment measures, this Royal Decree-Law has re-established the capacity of collective agreements to establish the termination of the employment contract by age, provided that the requirements for entitlement to a 100 per cent pension are met, recovering an instrument known in our labour legislation that is deemed suitable for promoting employment policy objectives in companies. It is an appropriate measure to restore the protagonist role of collective bargaining and greater freedom of bargaining subjects, which seeks to respond to the current situation of young employment in Spain by aligning itself with other measures adopted by the Government, in particular with the Youth Employment Shock Plan 2019-2021, approved by the Council of Ministers agreement of 7 December 2018, which includes among its extensive battery of measures the promotion of training and knowledge transfer programmes through the relay contract, measures clearly aimed at improving the quality of life and working conditions of our young people, men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, on this last issue I would like to point out that we have taken account of the inclusion of this provision in the agreement between CEOE, Cpyme, UGT and the Workers' Committees. The social partners, already in the IV Agreement on Collective Bargaining that they signed at the beginning of July 2018, urged the Government to make a number of legal changes necessary to enable collective bargaining to provide for these age termination clauses linked to employment policy objectives and generational relief. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u152	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u153	Thank you, President. In addition, an indefinite extension of the special unemployment benefit, called SED, was approved in the State General Budgets Act for 2018 in place of the PAE and Preparation programmes. This is a measure aimed at strengthening the protection of the unemployed, especially the most vulnerable. It must be borne in mind that, if it had not been done, 6 January would have ceased to exist and would have meant a severe cut in our unemployment protection system. However, as you know, work is under way to develop a new framework for assistance for unemployment with the Government's commitment to present it within four months of the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law, which is now subject to validation and which will be presented for negotiation within the framework of the Social Dialogue Bureau and of course at the Sectoral Conference with the Autonomous Communities, since the new system must be fully respectful of the division of competences established by the Spanish Constitution. On the other hand, there is an express derogation from contractual arrangements and recruitment incentives linked to the existence of an unemployment rate of more than 15%, since, as you know, in the third quarter of 2018, according to the labour force survey, the unemployment rate fell to 14.55 %. We are currently working on a new and updated comprehensive model of incentives for employment and the simplification of contractual arrangements, whose approach will be proposed to the social partners for their discussion and agreement.In relation to this matter, the Independent Fiscal Authority, AIReF, is preparing a report at the request of the Government on the current situation of subsidies, quota reductions and flat rates in our current system and, once we have the conclusions, we believe that this will be a great help in analysing their efficiency and, as I say, within the Social Dialogue Bureau to study this issue in depth. This Royal Decree-Law also repeals financial support for young people registered in the National Youth Guarantee System who sign a contract for training and learning and a bonus for conversion into indefinite contracts. It is repealed because of the poor effectiveness of the measure during its period of application. Since its entry into force on 4 August 2018, it has been found that this aid has not been effective either because of the number of applications submitted or because of the misrepresentation it has introduced in the framework of the industrial relations of the companies, which leads to the paradoxical situation in some cases of recognizing a higher salary to the apprentices who receive this measure in respect of the wages of those who protect their professional activity. I conclude my intervention by stating that, to the extent that the inter-professional minimum wage has been increased with effect from 1 January 2019 by 22,3 % compared to the amount in force in 2018, it has been necessary to introduce, on the one hand, specific rules of allocation in collective agreements which use it as a reference to determine the amount or increase of the basic wage or wage supplements and, on the other hand, a legal authorization to cover regulatory provisions aimed at delinking from that increase the non-state rules and private legal businesses in force at the time of entry into force of this increase. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a rule that includes measures of utmost importance for pensioners and workers in our country, whose situation, after the approval - and I hope that validation today - of this royal decree-law will improve in quantitative terms and also in qualitative terms. I therefore ask the House for its validation, relying on the sensitivity that all parliamentary groups are going to demonstrate to the demands of the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, takes the first step in fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, since you are a sensible person and also do not manipulate things, I would like to say from the outset that Coalition Canaria is going to support this decree with all its measures, the rise of the minimum wage, the rise of pensions, which is something punctual, because the fat issue of pensions we do not assume, etc. But let's get one thing straight. I will use my minute to clarify to some of your colleagues that today comes the rise of pensions and the minimum wage. They are dedicated to telling citizens, as if citizens were fools, that the one who does not support the budgets is voting against the rise of pensions and the approval of the minimum wage. No, sir. Today the Canary Coalition is supporting this decree and we will see, if we do not reach an agreement to comply with the Canary Islands statute and REF, whether we support the budgets or not, but people cannot be deceived. There was an agreement with the People's Party on pensions and the rest of the matters have closed their ministry very well, but today is when we are going to deal with the rise in pensions and the minimum wage. Socialists - especially the Socialists in the Canary Islands - one thing is to support the budgets and another to accuse the Canary Coalition that, if it does not support the budgets, it does not support pensions or the rise of the minimum wage. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Rumors]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. We will vote in favour of the real decree because we agree that benefits should be increased and because we agree that the system's revenues should be increased, but we do not think it is very right to speak of obvious improvement but rather of timid improvement, because what is being proposed here are small reforms that do not go in the wrong direction but that remain very far from the citizens' demands you were calling for to support this real decree, because, for example, the citizen demand of the Basque pensioners and the Basques is quite clear in their continuous and sustained mobilization for more than a year and above all in their demand for a minimum pension of 1080 euros, which is very far from the increase that you are proposing here, which is the revaluation with the consumer price index, with the CPI, which, by the way, is the same increase that the People's Party proposed in its agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party in the budgets that they agreed. So there's nothing too new. And we believe that it is good to increase the minimum base, but that 7% that they put forward is also far from what is necessary for the sustainability of the system because - to conclude - whether or not the debate on sustainability, whether or not the state of well-being hinges on health and education would also have to do so on quality employment and decent pensions, as is claimed on the street, and that would be the best way to curb the democratic involution and re-centralisation that the Spanish state seems to be crushing.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Candela has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I want to say that if this royal decree has arrived here today, it is thanks to the struggle of thousands and thousands of pensioners and trade unions who laid down the infamous 0.25 imposed by the previous government of the People's Party by breaking the Toledo Pact. We must thank pensioners and trade unions who have forced all political groups to talk about how to guarantee social rights and not how to cut them. Thank you, thank you very much. It is very important to say this because those who are obsessed with identities - and let me say that of 'live the evil, live the capital', who also say that -, today will go from point to point because they do not want to talk about real problems. I end by thanking trade unions and pensioners, and also pointing out two exceptions. We will vote yes to this royal decree and its processing as a bill, just as we will propose that the revaluation mechanism be exclusively in line with the CPI, as well as that the period of specific deficiency be repealed as it has a marked gender character, so I think it is fair to eliminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u161	Madam Minister, we share much of the approaches of this royal decree, in particular the increases in pensions, the agreement affecting self-employed workers, the increases in the widow's pension, which responds to an old pact between the Socialist Party and at that time Convergence, but we ask that this royal decree be treated as a bill because there are some issues that concern us. In particular, we are concerned about an issue that is affecting Catalonia today, such as the impact of the increase in the minimum wage on special employment centres and, specifically, on special employment centres working with people with serious difficulties of integration. Today, this increase in the minimum wage puts at risk the viability of a significant number of special employment centres in Catalonia. That'll have to be solved. It will also have to be examined in the parliamentary procedure, Minister, whether this increase in the maximum contribution base is compatible with the objectives of creating quality employment. It will have to be examined whether this decision to repeal the malus bonus system to combat accidents at work makes sense or not. The Government says it has had no impact, but it would be good to have greater justification for this decision. It would also be necessary to consider alternative measures to the abolition of wage subsidies for the recruitment of young people through the apprenticeship training contract, because perhaps that formula has not worked, but we need formulas to make employment possible for young people. Finally, this royal decree-law will have to be used to give form of law to the need for food vouchers not to compute in the social security contribution base. I believe that these are reasons that fully justify the process as a bill of this royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u163	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with the debate on a real decree-law, of which we must say, first of all, that it is a necessary debate; necessary because they are budgetary measures and also because of the absence of a budget law that will put into effect the measures it is proposing. Therefore, we understand that only for this reason is it necessary to support this royal decree-law. It is also a real decree-law that should be treated as a bill because we understand that it has many questionable measures and also has some that are already discussed by the Basque autonomic sphere, which also generate debates that must be addressed to the whole House. In our view, there are basically two issues proposed by this royal decree-law. On the one hand, the amendment once and for all, in line with the agreement that already exists in the field of the Toledo Pact, of article 58 of the General Law on Social Security; that is, the formulation already of a link of the updating of pensions with the CPI, without having any need other than the realization or repetition of that measure in each budget law. On the other hand, it is a critical but also very important issue, namely the management of active employment policies and compliance with the Constitutional Court's doctrine on the powers and powers with which the autonomous communities, at least the Autonomous Communities of the Basque Country, should be empowered to manage active employment policies. Therefore, allow me, Minister, that aside from the content... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u164	Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. Ladies and gentlemen, it is being quite a long plenary session. I would ask you to remain silent so that we can continue the debate properly. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that, for this reason, and apart from the content, in which I am not going to explain myself, since the minister has already developed in a thorough manner both the margins of revaluation and the revenues - where, by the way, the difference between certain increases in income, not so much in the new maximum pensions - and other specific issues and measures that are envisaged on certain specific situations or on certain groups in need of attention, as well as the elimination of certain contracts, must be highlighted again the mention that makes in derogation to two issues. On the one hand, the maintenance of the validity of the special unemployment benefit, which is repealed in paragraph 7 of the additional provision vigesimoseptima of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, and which, however, remains in some way by assigning to SEPE certain functions that the Constitutional Court has already determined cannot happen in the manner in which they occur. Despite this, this royal decree-law maintains that determination. Similarly, the Youth Guarantee Decree, with the single derogation provision, which provides in its subparagraph (e) for an express derogation from the additional one hundred and twenty-first and one hundred and twenty-first provision of the previous Budget Act, in which the powers of the SEPE also remain, even if this, and in strict application of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, should have been the subject of different attention by transferring this competence to the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, understanding that the content of this law is necessary, most of its measures are necessary, some of them are also questionable, but above all it is necessary that once and for all the ministry attends to the management of unemployment policies after the completion of the unemployment benefit in a manner consistent with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, we will vote in favour, request its processing as a bill and there we will be critical until the ministry meets our requests in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. The Government of the Socialist Party presents us with a royal decree-law for the upgrading of public pensions and other urgent measures in social, labour and employment matters. It is very little time I have to comment on each measure of an omnibus decree of more than 120 pages, with a list of urgent measures, but I will go to the point. Sincerely, Minister, after listening to your first speech six months ago, we expected more of this royal decree of urgent measures, and I say urgent ones. We regret that there has been no urgent attempt to repeal the labour reforms of the People's Party - I say attempted - or its more perverse aspects, which you vehemently and enthusiastically criticized in your first speech - as you said - six months ago. We would have liked this great royal decree at least to have been decreed in favour of the main demands of labour unions treated as urgent measures, and to repeal at least the main articles of labour reforms causing wage devaluation and job insecurity. We are not doing well, in my opinion, Minister and ladies of the PSOE. If you really want to be an alternative in the Kingdom of Spain to the three extreme right that already threatens us in a credible way, you must be credible. And I remind you that in Andalusia he did not win the extreme right; he won the abstention and you lost. I don't know if you've thought about it enough; I don't think so. If I may, I believe that they must be more courageous, both in defending and recovering the lost social and labour rights, and in respecting and defending the national rights of the different peoples integrated into the state today. At the moment, you have not done much in six months either on social and labour rights - if memory does not fail me, very little - by decreeing measures, as today, of minimums - that is fine - but very far from what the Socialist Party promised in the election campaign, in the motion of censure, or simply a few months ago. Nor have they been ambitious in terms of the resolution of the Catalan conflict, the repression of dissent, etc. But let us focus on some of the themes of the royal decree. In pensions his royal decree does not go beyond the pact on the revaluation of pensions, reached in its day by the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, thanks to the pressure and mobilizations of all pensioners. Even so, there are minimum measures that need to be voted for, and we are going to do so, as can be no other way, as long as it is also dealt with in the form of a bill, so that we can improve those things that are substantially better for us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u168	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u169	Indeed, it seems that everyone is very interested in the issue of pensions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u170	Wait a minute, Mr. Salvador. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent so that we can conclude the plenary session correctly. Go on, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u171	As I said, for example, on the issue of pensions you have not repealed the 2013 pension reform of the People's Party; you have not had the value of repealing the pension revaluation index, the IRP, established by the PP and still in force. Continuing with pensions, the maximum contribution base is increased - and it seems good to us - by 7%, but this is an entirely insufficient and disappointing increase. For us, the maximum contribution bases must be dismantled at once; the elimination of the contribution of the highest wages is a fundamental measure to increase the income of Social Security. As I said, 7% seems to us to be insufficient. It is not fair, for example, that the social security contribution of a person who earns EUR 50 000 per year is the same as that of a person who earns EUR 150 000 per year; it makes no sense, it is not fair. Continuing with the wages, they continue not to repeal labour reforms urgently, allowing - while we wait for their labour measures, what you call a new labour framework of relations - that, with their immobilisation, workers continue to suffer the effects of job insecurity and the living conditions caused by the existing and non-derogated labour reforms. Thus, wages will hardly rise, as collective bargaining - as you know - remains very unbalanced to the detriment of workers. The rise of the SMI is not enough to combat so many years of wage devaluation. The proposed amount is insufficient. In fact, the European Social Charter which the Spanish Government ratified in 1980, i.e. thirty-eight years ago, continues to be breached by the state governments for another year. Measures for the self-employed are also kept to a minimum. For example, the sector's maximum claim, which is the contribution on the basis of a minimum income and in proportion to it, is still not met. Nor is the duality of regimes eradicated by integrating the RETA into the general regime. We also lack urgent restitution of rights and full regulation of the allowance for over fifty-two years, prior to the 2012 and 2013 reforms. There are 600,000 unemployed people over fifty-two years of age who are of great concern to us. It seems right to us to reduce to twenty the number of days needed for access to unemployment benefit and agricultural income for agricultural workers affected by the torrential rains of 2018, but this would have to be automatic and would not have to wait for a real decree-law. As I said, I have very little time and many things to say. In short, it is a real decree that remains short, very short, in urgent measures, but still we will adopt it and then we will ask for its processing in the form of a bill to try to improve it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law because they leave us no choice, but we will do it with our nose covered. We have been debating many royal decree-laws today and in this passage as in the others we have discussed this morning, which contain many measures, and of some we are in favour, which are the trunk of the royal decree-law and that is why we will vote in favour, but of others we are against. Of course, we are in favour of an agreement to revalue pensions, which does nothing but transfer the revalue agreements that my party entered into with the People's Party in the previous year and which is in line with what my party is defending in the Toledo Pacts. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u174	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u175	That is to say, the four-day freezing of pensions in an inflationary scenario is not a good idea and, therefore, it is not a good idea for reforms to go there either. Let us try to ensure that the pensioners do not lose purchasing power and that the worst they are going through, who are the ones who have lower pensions or widows - one day I talked about my grandmother, who is entering precisely this reform of widow's pensions - we are going to vote in favour. We are also in favour of the agreement reached with the self-employed. We were scared when you announced that you were going to raise taxes on the self-employed, that you were going to raise the quota of the self-employed by 22%, when we were precisely the party that through a bill, which was processed and approved with the majority of the House, we got the self-employed to be present in each of the decisions that were made and affected them. In this case there is an agreement of yours with the most representative associations and there we will agree. However, there are some issues on which we do not agree and others on which we are opposed at the front. For example, the academic world talks about silent pension reform. What are you doing with this royal decree? Its way of adjusting is: we raise the minimum contribution to 22 % and raise the maximum contribution bases to 7 %, but then we do not raise the pension. Then they are directly affecting or eroding the contribution to the system and are moving towards an increasingly caring system. That's not our model. If it's yours, what they would have to do is not lie to the pensioners, say it in the Toledo Pact and not bring it here and try to put it through a royal decree-law through the back door. [[Applauds]] Apart from that, we are totally against forced retirement, of which you have spoken, by collective agreement. It is a contradiction to what its Secretary of State said, which basically was that the system needs us to be working longer, so we are going to try to increase the actual age of exit from the labour market by one year. You with this royal decree do the opposite. But it's not that it's not our model anymore, it's that we think it's even discriminatory, because the General Social Security Act does what it does is to encourage you to stay in the system longer, so if you're over sixty-five years old, you have more than one hundred percent of your pension and you keep working, it rewards you. However, with this royal decree what they do is create inequalities; that is, that two workers in the same sector, one in collective bargaining has forced retirement and the other does not, so they will create inequalities in their pension. Therefore, we do not agree with that. Besides, this is not a zero sum system. You speak of it as a measure to improve youth employment and here we have no empirical evidence to tell us, at other times when forced retirement has been legalized, that the fact that workers retire makes more young workers hire. We are also seeing that this really doesn't work that way in partial retirement with a relief contract. But if we are talking about youth employment, we are against you removing from a pen all the support for SMEs and self-employed people who hire our young people - you have said - the young enterprise that affects self-employed people, especially micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs. You said: it no longer makes sense because we have cut unemployment by 15%. But we have reduced unemployment in general by 15%, but we still have 30% youth unemployment. I ask you a question: Is it an extraordinary and urgent need to eliminate all aid for the recruitment of children under the age of 30? We don't think so. But what's more, we think it's a bad measure in that sense to eliminate the salary supplement that we're fighting for so much. It is money that comes from Europe that we are not spending and that is helping many young people to have a decent wage. And you say here: we have assessed it and it is a measure that does not work; and it was approved in August. In this country we have bonuses that are dead weight and that have been twenty years and have not been repealed, and in four months you are able to evaluate a measure and say that it does not work. We believe that not enough time has elapsed to evaluate this measure. The last measure I wanted to talk to you about - it does not give me time to talk about everything - is the obligation of the universities, institutions and companies of the students in labor practices to discharge and contribute. We are in favour of combating the precariousness of the fellows, but a proposal for the creation of a statute for the fellow was put forward in the Committee on Employment. You are in the social dialogue talking about the creation of a status of the fellow. You bring here a patch through the back door with which you have only managed to put everyone against, because you have against universities, institutions, even those in which you govern, and you have against companies as well. That's not the way. Finally, I would like to say that economic policy since you have come to the government is being a veritable waste, and here we have the numbers: tax increases, cost increases to businesses, all this mixed with all kinds of occurrences and contradictions like those I have pointed out to you here today and that it only creates uncertainty; an uncertainty that we here do bear, but that the economy does not bear so well, seeing how, according to the numbers we have from the last quarters, job creation and economic growth are falling. Today we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law, as I say to you, with our nose covered, but we hope that these budgets, which begin their processing this very week, will not go beyond the procedure, that you will see yourselves engaged in, as you promised, holding elections once and for all and that we will pass the page of this bad dream, that we will pass the page of sanchism and we will be able to start a new stage of growth and progress. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u177	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Good afternoon, minister. Welcome. First of all, I would like to welcome the intense work we have carried out with the minister herself during these days, since the publication of the royal decree to improve it in two of the aspects that were fundamental to our group. We could not accept in any way the cut that was incorporated in article 196 of the General Law on Social Security, depriving the total permanent invalidity of the interprofessional minimum wage. We have achieved the increase in total permanent invalidity by 22% and we have also achieved that in the case of workers who, as you know, will have to pay more quota in periods of inactivity, when raising the inter-professional minimum wage, a bonus is added so that they are not adversely affected by this increase. Therefore, minister, thank you, because these days have been intense, until very recent hours when we have been able to agree on this issue. I also want to tell you that we have been working for the social majority of our country since August. We have worked side by side with the Government to get a budget agreement that serves the people of this country, that serves the workers of this country. And we believe that, with humility, we have succeeded. Perhaps the most brilliant and outstanding measure that has the real decree that we are discussing today is its article 12, the interprofessional minimum wage, which will undoubtedly change people's lives and will certainly also shake the economy in our country. I want to read to you what page 33 said of the agreement reached in your day by Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Rivera. It said: The new Government will approve an increase in the inter-branch minimum wage of at least 1%. Minister, as you know, we have achieved a 22% increase in the inter-branch minimum wage. It's a historic climb, the biggest climb we've ever had in our country. If I may, the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage will de facto mean tacitly repealing a very damaging part of the reform of the People's Party, which has basically managed to bring down wages completely in our country. Therefore, we highlight the minimum wage, but we also stress that, thanks to the struggle of pensioners and pensioners, we have managed today that the agreement will allow pensions to be revalued in accordance with the CPI and thus will also incorporate a pay for the possible deviation that they may suffer; also the increase of the lower pensions by 3%, the increase of the regulatory base for widows to 60% - which was a requirement by law - or, for example, is very important, though insufficient, minister, and we will continue to work to achieve more - of those two new sections of domestic workers. Although we have not achieved the total loss, that of those two new sections that will improve the living conditions of domestic workers. Minister, ratification of ILO Convention 189 is pending, which is key for women workers who, as you know, work in very poor conditions. [[Applauds]] Minister, the measures you are addressing are insufficient to attack precariousness. In contracts less than five days their contribution has been penalised from 36 to 40 %. Okay, but that's not enough. The origin of precariousness, Minister, is two reasons: the concatenation of contracts and, as you know, the coincidence essentially in the contract of work and service determined, along with concessions of all kinds that occur. Needless to say, minister: 21.5 million contracts of employment, 20 million temporary contracts, 8 million fixed works and services and 10 million eventual ones. Minister, we have to take more action, because it does not come with these. We believe that the situation of the self-governing and self-governing is partially improved, but part of the agreement that concerns the self-governing and self-governing poor, false self-governing and self-governing is still lacking in this royal decree. There is no doubt that this problem must also be addressed in this House. For the fellows your proposal is very insufficient and has many risks, because you are obliged to contribute to Social Security even if there is no remuneration. The key is that there is remuneration, that there is a contribution, that there is the status of the fellows, as we have defended with our colleagues in the proposal of law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos In Comú Podemos In Marea and, of course, that their conditions be distinguished. Madam Minister, as you know, we have obtained small shares in the financing of the Social Security System, a 7 % loss. It is something, but it is very little, as you know, to address the issue of social security. I'm finishing up, minister. We do not share in any way the wording they make regarding the opening up of a possible new discussion of the revaluation of pensions. We have an agreement with you and your Government that pensions be revalued, at least, with the CPI. I insist on that six-month period. Minister, if the debate is reopened and other formulas are raised, we will be facing, on the street, pensioners and pensioners, defending at least that pensions be paid with the CPI. I'm done, minister. It is clear that dialogue, when it is to open up a scenario of hope, change and improvement for people, is very positive. Therefore, today we are pleased to say yes to this royal decree, with satisfaction for our people, for our workers. When you do things right, we are with you; but we also tell you that when you privatize services like railways - as has happened in this House - or you put yourself on the side of vulture funds with housing we will tell you loud and clear that no. [[The lady]] Hope lies in this royal decree today, Minister. Let us make it possible for the doors and windows to be opened to improve people's lives and from now on, if you keep your word, you can count on our support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u179	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As the Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security, Mrs Magdalena Valerio, pointed out, this item on the agenda calls for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 28/2018 and with the same impetus that the spokesman of Podemos defended it I believe that after this royal decree there is one before and one after. That royal decree pursues three objectives. The first is the strengthening of social protection through improvements in the protective action that affects millions of people, starting with pensioners - and the spokesman for Compromís said - talking about persons with disabilities, self-employed workers, employees of the household - and referring to this the spokesman for Podemos - women, widows, and obviously young people, especially young people. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] It is a cross-cutting decree that seeks to respond immediately to questions that cannot be expected. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u180	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u181	The second objective is to ensure social sustainability - as we have already said - economic and, of course, policy. Therefore, for the sake of brevity, I refer to the economic memory of this decree, where it puts all the economic measures that make the measures to improve the protective action of Social Security sustainable, which I hope today we can adopt, one after the other. And, indeed, the third objective - social, economic and political sustainability -, highlighting the negotiation and the pact, the reopening and the recovery of the social dialogue. This royal decree provides for the revaluation of pensions with an increase of 1.6%, with a forecast above the CPI that we have today. And here I mention both the speakers of the PNV and of Esquerra and of Podemos, we are waiting for the resolution of the Toledo Pact, which has to finish confirming that repeal of the 2013 reform, but today we already approve - already approved on 21 December - the rise of the CPI, as well as the minimums to 3%. We're talking about the SOVI, the non-contributory ones. Today the claim of millions of pensioners is blacked out, who are or are asking us to guarantee their purchasing power and, therefore, to guarantee a better and safer future. But, moreover, because it has been evidenced that since the reform of 2013 it is essential to generate confidence in the future of the citizenry and this royal decree regulates certainty and guarantee of purchasing power in the short term, I insist, waiting for the social dialogue and the recommendations that sooner or later they have to arrive from the Toledo Pact. The important thing is that we do not start from scratch, we start from an agreement in September on the CPI that today or yes everyone has to recognize and hardly anyone will refuse or will back off. We must respond immediately to the needs of the citizen - the minister said - especially if the General Budgets of the State are not yet approved. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been desirable to amend Article 58 of the General Law on Social Security in this royal decree, but the Socialist Party, the Socialist Government, believes that first the social dialogue, together with the Toledo Pact, must respond to this amendment, and I have said it before. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u182	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u183	In any case, this royal decree is justified by the simple fact that if it were not approved, if it were not validated, the 0.25 passed by the People's Party in 2013 would apply. The urgency, therefore, also stems from the need to set the minimum pensions at 3%, as well as the increase to the widows, said the spokesman of Podemos, that promised - and made reference to this Mr Campuzano - in Law 27/2011 and which the People's Party stopped, the improvement of the widow's pension. We are also considering the improvement of social protection, as well as the benefits for the contribution of self-employed workers, we are talking about 2.9 million self-employed workers affected, an essential part - we agree with Mr Sergio del Campo - of the economic fabric of this country. Here the social dialogue with the majority associations in the sector needs to be highlighted. The social dialogue led to a historic pact, mentioned by the associations themselves. This is what we are now putting here. We talk about improvements, we talk about autonomous, we talk about families, we talk about the fellows, because it's good not to talk to the universities before and that the fellows are still unprotected. We must take a step forward and take immediate action. The minister has made it clear that the subject of the fellows will just be mapped out and negotiated, and she has obviously spoken with the autonomous communities and, of course, with the university. [[Rumors]] It is unbearable to make the intervention with the mess that this plenary has mounted. I've got twenty-two seconds left. I don't think they even know what we're talking about...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u184	Mrs. Perea i Conillas...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u185	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u186	...the one that silences the auditorium is me.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u188	He doesn't have 24 seconds left, but it's been 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u189	Thank you, President, but it's frankly hard to talk...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u190	Yes, it's very difficult.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u191	Anyway, I'm finishing up, president. We're talking about young people. They deserve to have a future, but they have to have a present. We also need to talk about improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the labour market will come from the social dialogue, but with this decree-law we take a step. And I would tell Mr. Del Campo, in relation to mandatory retirement by age, that comes from... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u192	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u193	... IV Agreement on collective bargaining signed in July 2018 by social partners with Minister Magdalena Valerio and then Minister Fatima Báñez. I'm finishing up. I don't want to leave this point. This decree is the foreword and prelude to what will come with the approval of the General Budgets of the State for those over fifty-two years old, the subsidy for those over fifty-two years old. [[Applauds]] Each and every Member of Parliament knows that they have been claiming it since the first minute. That comes in the State's General Budgets. I would not like to end without commenting on one point. What lies behind this decree is the pact, the negotiation and the agreement. We have to value this. If it's worth it, let's take it out collectively. That is what people who are out there are waiting for, as we have said more than once from this rostrum. It's happening again today. The Fourth Collective Bargaining Agreement of July 2018...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u194	Mrs Perea i Conillas, more than two minutes of your time have passed.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u195	Excuse me, President. I've been a little impertinent. It seemed to me that today was worth highlighting what so many people have demanded outside and what we are going to respond to today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u196	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree is a tax on employment, especially the employment of women and young people. It is the decree of the labour tax, and when work is penalized, it attacks the pension system head-on. It is the real decree that raises the maximum ceiling of the contribution bases by 7 %, without any compensation to the worker, which is added to the increase of the minimum contributions by 22 %. It is a decree that raises taxes to work paid by employers and workers. It is the royal decree that closes the access of young university students and students of vocational training to practice. Will the students pay Social Security? Are companies the ones that will offer the internships to students after having to pay for Social Security? It is the royal decree that raises the flat rate to the self-employed, when it is necessary to reduce it for the most vulnerable groups. It is the royal decree repealing the recruitment incentives, which has made it possible to recover 2,765,000 jobs since 2013. In particular, they eliminate bonuses that have reduced the youth unemployment rate by almost 20 points. This royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, nullifies the indefinite contract of support for entrepreneurs, nullifies training and learning contracts with people between 25 and 30 years old, nullifies incentives for the indefinite hiring of a young person by micro-enterprises and self-employed entrepreneurs. This royal decree nullifies incentives for recruitment in new young entrepreneurship projects. This royal decree cancels the contract to the first young job, and increases the business share in contracts equal to or less than five days, a key contract for the tourism sector, for hospitality, in general for one of the most competitive sectors in our country. This royal decree eliminates incentives to contract in practice, and establishes compulsory retirement, imposing the collective agreement on the freedom of persons to decide when they want to retire. This is the royal decree that annuls the aid of 400 euros per month for young people with fewer opportunities, which allowed them to receive a counterpart of more than 1000 euros per month for training and work, the same one that the lords of Citizens supported and called an orange amendment today vote, turning it in this case into red, in favor of this decree law and thus nullifying that aid. [[Applauds]] Without a job, ladies and gentlemen, there are no pensions and their policy is a frontal attack on employment. One thing is that these incentives are financed through General State Budgets and not through Social Security, and another thing is that they are eliminated, especially when they work. At a time of economic deceleration, at a time of deceleration of employment, as you acknowledge in the General Budgets of the State, you can think of nothing other than penalising employment. This royal decree increases contributions to seamen, doubling them in most cases. They exclude - that is what they do - the quotations for boats less than 10 tons, artisanal fishing. But one goes to the draft budgets and does not collect the exclusion that they pose in this royal decree, with which the artisanal fishermen, the shellfishmen, the collectors, to the harvesters of algae double this type of contribution. What will they tell our fishermen? What will they say in Galicia, in Cantabria, in Asturias, in the Basque Country, in Andalusia or on the entire Spanish coast? The Royal Spanish Academy of Language, ladies and gentlemen, defines infamy as an evil and vile action, and that is what you have done by mixing the decree of the tax on the employment of women and young people with pensions. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u198	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u199	You mix it all together to hide your collection voraciousness behind a pension increase that was already guaranteed by the 2018 State General Budgets Act that the People's Party pulled forward. That is to say, this decree is not necessary to raise pensions, the general increase is guaranteed of 1,6 % for all pensions, and of 7,14 % for widowhood. They are guaranteed for 2019, minimum non-contributory pensions are missing. And to reach 3%, it would be enough to have brought a decree or a bill or a bill such as the one to be presented by the People's Party so that pensions can be raised and the commitment to raise the pensions that the People's Party raised from the government can be made. But no, you had to mix everything up, you had to confuse everything, maybe to silence the bad conscience of having voted many of you to freeze pensions when ruling the Socialist Party at the previous stage. [[Applauds]] I remember many of you and Mr Zapatero and Mr Sánchez sitting in those seats, voting in favour of the freezing of pensions. And now you have said: we are taking up part of your employment policy, but you will have to vote in favour because what we do is stick the pensions to you in this decree. In the end, they hide behind the pensioners to achieve their purposes, and what is that called if it is not infamy, vileness or pettyness? That is neither political nor political; that is the degradation of government policy and action. One last question. Why don't you two talk? Why don't you talk before you bring in these rules and guarantee the support to carry them out? Because, in the end, what they want also in this question is to seek confrontation, division, breakup. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be proud, arrogant, and I believe that there is still a lot to be done, and some of you lack shame. Thank you very much. [[The Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security, Valerio Cordero, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u200	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u201	Thank you, President. I just want to tell the PP spokesman, Mr Floriano, that he could have saved all these hard grades he used; he could have saved them. [[Rumors]] If they wanted to vote no to this royal decree-law - you have not said what you are going to vote - it was not necessary to insult so much and disqualify so much to justify a no. [[Applauds]] You know perfectly well that an additional provision cannot be extended when State General Budgets are extended, then there was no guarantee at all that pensions would rise with effect from 1 January, except in the case of having brought this royal decree-law, as well as the rise of contributions to square the accounts, because, as you know, we still have much to do to square the accounts, among other things because you have left the social security accounts made a real disaster. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr Floriano Corrales asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u202	Go ahead, Mr. Floriano.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u203	Thank you very much, Madam President. Don't give up, Minister. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u204	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u205	Don't give up. I was qualifying a political action that seems to me to be shameless, and it seems to me because, if I could have saved myself qualifications, you could have saved yourself bringing a boarding decree together with the elimination of all bonuses to the recruitment of young people and women. That's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And it is shameful, Minister, that your best policy, that what happens to you at a time of deceleration of employment, at a time of economic deceleration, is to stop... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u206	Wait a minute, Mr. Floriano. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. As you all know, the Government can intervene at any time in the debate. When the Government intervenes after the parliamentary groups, if, in the opinion of the Presidency, it is understood that the debate has reopened, it may allow for a limited period of time the members of this House to speak. Therefore, Mr Floriano is now speaking, and then, in his case, the Government or another member of this Parliament will have the opportunity to speak. [[rumors]] Go ahead, Mr. Floriano; you have one minute left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u207	I told him that in times of economic slowdown and deceleration of employment the worst thing that can be done is to penalize all the elements that improve and facilitate the recruitment of the youngest, and that is exactly what you do with this decree. There is no worse attack on the pension system than trying to harm employment by its policy, and that is what you are doing: harming job creation. [[Applauds]] If the pension system is in question, if the pension system is in danger, we have to deal with a solution, and in that we are, but do not forget that the last time they ruled they left more than three and a half million jobs destroyed, and that is also a shame, Minister. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause.- The Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security, Valerio Cordero, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u208	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u209	Mr Floriano, I have no choice but to speak out because I am a member of a government and you have disqualified all the action of this government with very harsh words. You seem to be happy with a possible economic slowdown. Fortunately, growth forecasts are 2.2%, which has recently been confirmed by international bodies. The Government itself has been cautious and has opted for this decision in the State General Budgets Act. On the other hand, this Government wants jobs, quality jobs to continue to be created. I have just said in the rostrum that the whole issue of bonuses, flat rates and quota reductions has been submitted to an AIReF report to ensure that these bonuses, quota reductions and flat rates are efficient. By the way, it does not please anyone to leave millions of unemployed when a government ends, it does not have the slightest doubt, but it is also true that you found a pension reserve fund of 67 billion euros and looked elsewhere from 2012 to 2017, and I hope and hope that all the parliamentary groups in this House - because I believe that the bases are sitting - and at the social dialogue table the unions, employers, business representatives and the government will all be able to reach an agreement to ensure the present and the future of the public pension system and to give certainty and confidence to millions of pensioners present and millions who at some point in our lives will want to receive a retirement pension. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u210	Prior to voting, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Alfonso Candón Adam, I ask Don Andrés Núñez Jiménez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u211	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u212	In place of Don Iñigo Errejón Galván, I ask Mrs Sol Sánchez Maroto if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u213	On legal imperative, I promise. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u214	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Don Andrés Núñez Jiménez and Dona Sol Sánchez Maroto have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the votes. Unique point. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 21/2018 of 14 December on urgent measures in the area of housing and rent. The vote will begin. [[Pause. - Rumors.]] The voting was as follows: 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 103; against, 241 plus 2 telematics votes, 243; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Consequently, this royal decree-law is not validated. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 22/2018, OF 14 DECEMBER, ESTABLISHING MACROPRUDENTIAL TOOLS. [[File number 130/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u217	Royal Decree-Law 22/2018 of 14 December, establishing macroprudential tools. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; 177; 138 plus 1 telematics vote, 139; abstentions, 31 plus 1 telematics vote, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u218	Therefore, this royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 271 plus 1 telematics vote, 272; against, 69 plus 1 telematics vote, 70; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u219	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 27/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, BY WHICH DETERMINED MEASURES IN TRIBUTARY AND CATASTRAL MATTERS ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u220	We now proceed to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on Royal Decree-Law 27/2018 of 28 December, by which certain measures are taken in tax and cadastral matters. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 174 plus 1 telematics vote, 175; against, 32; abstentions, 140 plus 1 telematics vote, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u221	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u222	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 23/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, OF TRANSPOSITION OF GUIDELINES IN MARKS, RAIL TRANSPORT AND COMBINED TRAVEL AND VINCULAR TRAVEL SERVICES. [[File number 130/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u223	We now proceed to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the Royal Decree-Law 23/2018 of 21 December on the transposition of directives on trademarks, rail transport and combined travel and related travel services. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 265 plus 1 telematics vote, 266; against, 72 plus 1 telematics vote, 73; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u224	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; against, 1; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u225	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 24/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF RETRIBUTIONS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR. [[File number 130/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u226	We now proceed to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on Royal Decree-Law 24/2018 of 21 December, approving urgent measures on remuneration in the public sector. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; 1 against; 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u227	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u228	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2018, OF 21 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR A JUST TRANSITION OF COAL MINERY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF MINERAL TRADE. [[File number 130/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u229	We passed to Royal Decree-Law 25/2018, of 21 December, urgent measures for a fair transition from coal mining and the sustainable development of mining regions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 132; against, 4; abstentions, 210 plus 2 telematics votes, 212.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u230	As a result, the royal decree is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 343 votes against, 1 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u231	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, APPROVING URGENT MEASURES ON ARTISTICAL CREATION AND CINEMATOGRAPHY. [[File number 130/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u232	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on Royal Decree-Law 26/ 2018 of 28 December, approving urgent measures on artistic creation and cinematography. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; 1 against; 1 abstention, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u233	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; 343 plus 1 telematics vote, 344; 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u234	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 28/2018, OF 28 DECEMBER, FOR THE REVALORIZATION OF PUBLIC PENSIONS AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN SOCIAL, WORKING AND EMPLOYMENT MATTERS. [[File number 130/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u235	We now turn to Royal Decree-Law 28/2018, of 28 December, for the revaluation of public pensions and other urgent measures in social, labour and employment matters. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 180 votes in favour, 181 votes against, 1 abstentions, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u236	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 343 votes in favour, 344 votes against, 1 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-01-22-CD190122.u237	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was five and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
