ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Go take a seat, please, and keep a little silence to start with the first debate. We begin with the first item on the agenda, concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal of the Regional Assembly of Murcia for the reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. To this end, we are joined by three representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, and whom I welcome on behalf of the whole House. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Molina Gallardo has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Inviolability, immunity and stifling, three concepts that we must clearly distinguish. While the first two refer to the protection that both democratic institutions and their representatives must have in order to avoid any kind of political persecution, suffocation is an addition to these figures that we can hardly consider a prerogative of protection, but rather a privilege inherited from medieval customs where lords and commoners were governed by different justices. It involves a parallel system of justice with higher courts to which the defendants must be sent, in this case we politicians, when we have to be investigated for some possible crime; higher courts such as the Supreme Court or higher courts of justice, whose members are elected by a body that is the General Council of the Judiciary, whose members in turn are elected by political parties. And in this way we close the circle: we politicians choose the judges who can judge us. Forcing and controlling the judiciary have a very intimate relationship. As long as there is suffocation, the resistance to cede political control of the General Council of the Judiciary and the system of appointment of the judges of the higher courts will be enormous, and we will continue to stab Montesquieu and the separation of powers one day yes and another as well. The figure of the drilling is based on the fact that we do not trust ordinary investigating judges because, we understand, they can succumb to pressure or, worse, they are avid of notoriety and a politician is a good prey. This argument is a grave lack of respect for the filter made by our basic judges who, in recent years, have defended the dignity of our rule of law at the expense of great sacrifices. This excuse is an unfounded criticism of the actions of the investigating judges as if they were influenceable and vengeful fights willing to all for sitting a politician on the bench. As soon as the investigating judge is informed that he or she is investigating an offence involving a person being held in detention, he or she must refer the case to the competent higher body, even if there are other defendants who are not held in custody, thus losing the case and not on a few occasions the work of years. This drag also brings with it a curious consequence and it is that the unpunished, who are thus projected into that higher court, lose their right to review their case in a second instance in the event that they are convicted, which creates clear discrimination in relation to the rest of the citizens. In other words, the argument that squatting is not a privilege because squatters lose the second instance implies in practice unjustified discrimination for ordinary citizens who are dragged away by that non-privileged privilege. Ladies and gentlemen, if those of us who legislate and build the system do not rely on ordinary justice and its judges, why do the rest of the citizens have to rely on it? One more consideration: once granted the supplication by the Parliament in question, which understands that it is not a persecution for political reasons, what sense does the subsequent privilege of a special court have? Ladies and gentlemen, we are a democratic singularity in this matter; there is nothing like it in the democracies that surround us, where this figure is minimal or directly does not exist. This is the second time we have come to defend this initiative. The best way to stop the populist wave is to demonstrate to society that its representatives are the first to renounce unnecessary privileges as may be that of stifling. The later we modernize our institutions, the more force they will have those who do not want to reform them, but simply demolish them. Both the Socialist Party and the People's Party accepted this commitment in the government agreements they signed with Citizens a short time ago. Today is the time to show whether they did so out of conviction or out of mere ad hoc convenience. As Aristotle said, democracy originated in the belief that being equal men in a certain aspect, they are in everything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Molina. Secondly, Mr Segado Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also greet the Bureau of the Regional Assembly, headed by its President, and the other Members of all the groups that are with us today. This afternoon a second vote will be taken on the partial reform of the autonomous status in order to eliminate the outbursts of fifty-six political representatives of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia. It would be the forty-five regional deputies, the president and the ten councillors. The People's Group voted in favour of this bill to reform the status of autonomy when it was debated in the Regional Assembly in April 2017, two and a half years ago. To make it clear, from the People's Party we defend and support the need to limit and reduce the number of outbursts in our country, and we also continue to argue that a national debate is necessary because, although it is true that with laws like this we want to equalize politicians with citizens, at the same time we are creating a two-speed Spain in the area of democratic regeneration. Therefore, we do not meet the objectives nor do we respond to what society really demands of us. A law that seeks to extend equality in the judicial sphere cannot open a gap of inequality between the autonomous communities. We do not want privileges for privileged politicians or politicians. If we adopt a change in our status of autonomy so that regional deputies and members of the Government are tried by ordinary courts, and in addition it is supported by all parties, it seems logical that the same criteria be applied for all autonomous communities. It makes no sense for the President and the Councillors of the Region of Murcia not to be caught up, but to maintain that condition either Mr Torra or the President of the Valencian Community who, by the way, voted against, together with Compromís, to eliminate the fighting. Before finally giving the green light to this new law from the Parliament of the Region of Murcia, this House should seek the formula that prevents asymmetric Spain from treating Spanish politicians in justice. If we want all politicians to be equal before the law, let's really do it from here on out. Politics in the Murcia Region has been a mirror in which many places in Spain should look. We have been the first region capable of overcoming the situation of political blockade and, in order to overcome it, we have counted on the generosity of many, with high eyes, with intelligence, with work and with the effort of three parties to seek the necessary agreements. Unlike what is happening here with the investiture of the President of the Government, when we have put ahead of the interests of each party those of the society to which we represent, ladies and gentlemen, we have brought forward a Government since the agreement. Let's do the same in this matter. Transparency, good governance and democratic regeneration should not be measures of showcase according to where it governs one or another party. If we want to be genuinely honest with the citizens, let us not turn what must be a legal, serious and rigorous modification into a product of political marquetin. Ladies and gentlemen, if the rulers of a community are treated differently from those of the rest of the communities, the result will be that the governed will also be in unequal conditions. We therefore insist from the People's Party of the Murcia Region that we must open a debate on the limitation and reduction of the outbursts, and that debate must equal the politicians of all Spain, regardless of the autonomous community where they operate. And, of course, the seat of national sovereignty, this house, is the right place to open that debate and where a serious and rigorous study on the outbursts of political representatives in our country must be addressed. I would also like to say that we believe that we are not at the most opportune political moment to re-introduce in Congress the consideration of this law in the face of the situation of political blockade and the real threat of an electoral repetition. If that were to happen, if there were new elections, the proposal for reform of the statute of autonomy to abolish the outbursts would fall again and the autonomous deputies would have to defend the same thing again, for the third time, from this rostrum. On the other hand, we must not forget that at the moment in the Congress of Deputies we are waiting to begin processing our new statute of autonomy, which contemplates not only the suppression of the outbursts but other much more ambitious reforms on vital issues for our region such as water and autonomous financing. A substantial, much more ambitious and far-reaching reform proposal. A proposal that affects not only fifty-six inhabitants of the region, but also improves the lives of 1.5 million inhabitants. Limiting and reducing suffocation yes, but from a national perspective where inequalities are not created between the autonomous communities. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Segado. Finally, on behalf of the Murcia Regional Assembly, Mr Conesa Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I greet the President of the Regional Assembly, the Members of our Regional Parliament and the people who have travelled to the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental purpose of this reform is for citizens to believe in politics again. The elimination of political outbursts is one of the spearheads of democratic regeneration. The stalemate does not give impunity, but it is a privilege that is difficult to justify in these times, a prerogative that, unfortunately, has allowed public offices that are being investigated in court cases to manage the times and to evade even certain responsibilities. We are faced with an outdated legal figure in the time we live, its elimination will allow us to achieve effective equality of public representatives and citizenship before the law. This reform is a sign of exemplaryness and empathy with citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly evident that citizens are tired of corruption and mistrust with their political leaders in general, so it is urgent to take action on democratic values and public ethics that will enable us to regain credibility, especially in the Murcia region, where corruption cases have affected dozens of public offices, including its presidents. For this reason, in November 2015, the Socialist Parliamentary Group pushed for a change in our status of autonomy in order to eliminate the hindrances that, at that time, November 2015, the People's Party blocked with its abstention. However, in April 2017, the Socialist Parliamentary Group once again promoted the elimination of the outbursts of deputies, deputies and members of the Governing Council, which was unanimously adopted by the Murcia Regional Assembly and which we defend today in the Courts for the second time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists of the Murcia Region are proud to promote that ours was the first autonomous community to begin the elimination of political outbursts. This initiative was followed by the parliamentarians of the Canary Islands, Cantabria and the Balearic Islands, even this House voted mostly in favour of eliminating the outbursts and the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft reform of articles 71.3 and 102.1 of the Constitution, to eliminate the outbursts of deputies, senators and members of the government. We are pleased that the reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy has already eliminated them. This is the way forward. Today I come to invite all of you to join this initiative of the Regional Assembly to amend articles 25 and 33 of our statute of autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of political harassment and, above all, the reform of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act to prevent criminal cases for corruption from going to trial and being dismissed and filed, as has happened with former presidents of the Murcia Region, are a priority for socialists. I expect from all of you a sincere and real bet on transparency and democratic regeneration also in the Murcia Region. It is of little use that we in the Murcia Regional Assembly unanimously approve the elimination of the elections, that today the majority of the political groups in this House vote to continue the process of reforming the status of autonomy and that, later, some groups devote themselves to paralysing it with parliamentary subterfuges, because, as I said, the process for this reform of the statute was already approved in September 2017, by the way, with the abstention of the People's Parliamentary Group in this House. The Joint, People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups up to thirty-one times have paralysed the vote and this debate, ten times the People's Party and thirteen times the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of the outbursts of Members and the Government of the Murcia Region is not yet a reality because so far the People's and Citizens' Party has not wanted to do so. Members of the People's Party and of the People's Party, we hope that they will reconsider their position so that we, the deputies of the Murcia Region, can look into the eyes of the women and men of our land and tell them that we have kept our word. We would be taking an important step towards recovering the value of the policy useful to citizens. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Conesa. Before starting the position-setting round on the part of all the parliamentary groups in the House, I would like to welcome the entire delegation of the Murcia Region, all the authorities accompanying us, an extensive delegation with a large representation of the Regional Assembly, headed precisely by its President, and accompanied by the Vice-President and Councillor for Women, Equality, LGBTBI, Families and Social Policy. Welcome to the Congress of Deputies. We therefore begin the debate, the turn of positions and, first of all, I give the floor to the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are now in the midst of a full debate on a proposal to reform the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia on the initiative of that autonomous community, which has been presented to us by the representatives of the Regional Assembly, to whom I would like to greet and welcome on behalf of our group and my own, as well as the delegation accompanying them. We also want to make it clear from this very first moment that we will not prevent the desire to change its status on the part of the institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia from coming to a successful conclusion, although we do not share any assertions which justify and justify the change that is being advocated, such as the fact that the Governing Council and its President and the regional Members are - and now it is proposed to abolish - a task which is not enjoyed by another citizen in our rule of law or which is a response - it is understood that in congruence - to the social requirements of cleanliness and transparency. We had already stated in this House on another occasion that there should be no discussion of political outbursts or political outbursts. All the provisions of our legal system are so and respond to a legislative policy decision that protects certain public servants, officials and certain positions from actions that could undermine their constitutional functions, through the misuse of complaints. And in this we cannot forget a unique institution of our legal system, popular action, which does not exist in other countries of our environment. It is therefore determined to this end that these complaints, when brought before them, will be heard by collegiate and higher-level judicial bodies. That is why all the provisions of our system are a legislative policy decision, well derived from the same Constitution, either from the Organic Law of the Judiciary or from the basic institutional norms of the autonomous communities, that is, the statutes of autonomy, and which affects not only certain public offices, approximately 2000, but also a long list of officials. This is true of the members of the judicial career, of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the Office of the Prosecutor, of the order of 15 000, the members of the various Security Forces and Bodies, 230 000, and other officials until the figure, clearly exaggerated, of 250 000 in our system, although not all of them to the same degree or with the same rule as those outside them. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we can and will be able to abolish the outbursts that are considered, but this institution is not only a procedural circumstance affecting public offices, but mostly public officials. Nor should we speak of severance as a privilege or as a right of the persons to whom it applies, but of a prerogative that protects the public service, the public service that is carried out through specific persons, in order to protect them generally from actions that could undermine their constitutional and statutory functions through the abusive presentation of complaints that confuse, in the case of public officials or officials, political responsibility with the penal system, and this has been pointed out by the Constitutional Court in a judgment not so far away, number 22/1997. Ladies and gentlemen, that does not mean much less that the cuts cannot and should not be abolished. It is a legislative policy decision whose adoption - I would like to point out - was not arbitrary, it responded to a motivation; neither was it a privilege nor is it a privilege, it is a prerogative; nor does it, by the way, break the principle of equality with those people who do not count on this forum through the so-called non-respect of the principle of judge predetermined by law. The Constitutional Court has also pointed out that the same Constitution, the statutes and the Organic Law of the Judiciary perform this function of law, which is required by article 24 of the Constitution. And, ladies and gentlemen, once again I insist that this does not mean that the cuts should not and cannot be abolished, but we should look for another argument other than that which is generally used, such as that they are a privilege or that their suppression contributes to transparency and cleanliness, perhaps because they are no longer necessary, given the level of institutional maturity and institutional independence. It would be a reflection to be carried out. In fact, in many countries in our environment, there are no officials, judicial or security officials, or any public office, of course, nor for the head of State, nor much less for his family, as has been the case in Spain since 2014, when this issue was already being discussed when, on the occasion of the processing of the Organic Abdication Law of King Juan Carlos I, taking advantage of his procedure of amendments, he went to the Supreme Court for both criminal and civil cases - which is an exception with respect to the rest of the defendants - the consort of the king or queen, the Prince of Asturias and his consort and the king or queen whom he would have abdicated. I'm finishing up, Madam President. I have allowed myself some thought to be given to the question of settlement in our legal system and to the abolition of any of them and their possible motivation, as it is a recurring issue that is usually brought to this House through initiatives and proposals for regulatory change. I have also recalled that we will support any reform within this House that involves consideration of all the outbursts, without exception, and their raison d'être or not in our day, as in the countries that are cited as examples. In the meantime, as we have already expressed on another occasion on this same subject, with the Basque Parliamentary Group do not count for political marketing operations. Finally, with regard to the will expressed by the institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia with regard to the members of its Governing Council, President and regional deputies, as we said at the beginning of our speech, we will not be an obstacle to the recognition of their autonomy in political decision-making. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u10	Thank you, Madam President. A fraternal greeting to the authorities who accompany us today and to the people of the Region of Murcia, with whom I personally have very close family ties, like the vast majority of the citizens of the people of Catalonia. At this point the position of Republican Left of Catalonia is clear. We want the independence of Catalonia and build the Catalan Republic. Consequently, in Esquerra Republicana we do not feel legitimized to interfere with the will of the autonomous communities of Spain and the degree and form of autonomy with which they want to equip themselves. That is why our vote will be abstention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we express our support for the reform of Articles 25 and 32 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, since we are and will always be in favour of eliminating the excessive privileges that Spanish parliamentarians have. We have done so in Castile and León and Andalusia, and today we express our support for this initiative of the Region of Murcia. Spain is the country with the most outbursts on the planet, more than 250,000 of which 17 600 are political posts. Parliament's immunity and rigging constitute procedural privileges that damage the image of Spanish and Spanish politicians. In France there are only the President of the Republic and members of the Government; in Italy and Portugal, only the President; in Germany and the United Kingdom there is not even this figure. As a result of this suffocation of the political class and the high number of cases of economic, administrative and political corruption - only in 2018 amounted to 205 trials, most of them produced in Andalusia and the Valencian Community - the higher courts of Justice have ended up becoming ordinary courts of investigation, until their saturation. It should be recalled in this regard that the first proposed law submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group is that of the comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption cases, which includes the repeal of the reform promoted by the People's Party concerning the limitation of time limits in criminal instructions, which favours the impunity of corrupt politicians given the impossibility of completing in six months the investigation of fairly complex cases such as the current Punica case, which is in the media. If this law is passed, it is to be hoped that more cases of corruption will arise that affect political parties exercising government functions, which would turn these higher courts into anti-corruption courts, degrading and perverting the role for which the higher courts of justice of the various autonomous communities are designed. We would like to recall, in order for no one to be duped, that the reform of these two points of the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia arrived in Congress two years ago and was admitted without unanimity, since the People's Parliamentary Group abstained and also the deputies of separatist parties such as Esquerra Republicana, Partido Nacionalista Vasco and PDeCAT abstained. It is clear that this reform has occurred as a result of the corruption of the regional government of the People's Party in Murcia and the public scandal resulting from this corruption, coupled with the fact that the People's Party has lost an absolute majority. The deputies of Murcia, after having granted their leave before the High Court of Justice, now intend to withdraw it, and indeed it is, but the VOX Parliamentary Group is aware that we are not faced with a correction made from the conviction that the stakes are a ballast to the image of the political class that is deteriorating our system, as demonstrated by the position on this issue of the People's Party in 2017 and of the other political parties mentioned above. This reform remedys specific and specific facts of economic corruption involving the former president of the regional government and his own genesis is in no way alien to the desire for revenge of his internal and external enemies. The recent history of the regional government shows us a traumatic succession of its former president, which provoked tremendous internal violence and which, in its final stage of adjustment, produced three legal reforms: the limitation of mandates, the elimination of embargoes and the Transparency Act; reforms that could not prevent the split of the Batian People's Party and the emergence of a new party, whose president, by the way, resigned a few weeks ago. We reiterate that the VOX political group understands that these reforms must be made from the conviction of their relevance, their need, and not on the basis of the specific interests of a party which, in addition, intends to obtain political revenues from this reform, to which they did not support and whose genesis appears as the main reason for the corruption that affects this party in the Autonomous Community of Murcia. We announce that the VOX Group will take another step in this direction and will present a proposal for a reform of the Spanish Constitution in its articles 71 and 102 to abolish the suffocation of deputies, senators, president and members of the Government, a reform that, according to the Council of State, could be carried out through the simple way of article 167 of the Constitution, which requires only a three-fifth majority and does not require a referendum, unless a tenth of the members of either House are required. We conclude by reiterating our support for this reform of the statute in paragraphs 25 and 32, since it is a reform that goes in the right direction to eliminate privileges. We would have liked this direction of eliminating privileges to be followed also in the draft reform of the statute approved by the Regional Assembly of Murcia with night and light on the eve of the 2019 elections, reform which was supported by all the political forces then represented in that institution, a reform project to be approved, too, in this House. Unfortunately, this is not the case, since in this reform new privileges appear for the political class, that the right to determine which interpretation of the history of Spain is the correct one, including, without coming to the fore, the historical memory; what moral principles must be continued, committing themselves, also without coming to the fore, to the ideology of gender in order to impose by legislative means what by scientific means constitutes a real disparate, and finally, by arrogating itself in the preamble of that reform of the statute, and in a contradictory way with the principles of the Constitution, the being representatives of a Mortian people from whom the supposed powers of the assembly would emanat; a people to whom they define, moreover, as a European region, jumping above the Spanish nation. The VOX political group will always defend that, above and beyond the privileges that politicians grant themselves, it is the interests of the citizens and the defence of the Spanish nation. Therefore, in a coherent way, just as we support this initiative today, for identical reasons, we will oppose the inclusion of new privileges in the subsequent reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, especially because these privileges have the effect of cutting the public freedoms of Spanish citizens...,
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u13	Mr. Robles, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u14	... those who are intended to model - I conclude - in the official ideology of consensus progress, with threats of sanctions and charges by mere opposition to this ideology. Politicians are not designed to dictate to citizens how they should think or what moral or sexual orientation they should have, but to efficiently manage public resources, safeguard their interests and protect the nation from the threats of their enemies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Robles. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u16	Thank you, President. I would like to begin this intervention by welcoming the Commissioners of the Regional Assembly and the other authorities of the Murcia Region who are accompanying us this afternoon. We are again discussing the proposal to reform the Autonomous Statute of the Region of Murcia, which, following the electoral advance of 28 April, has not been dealt with and is therefore still pending. In any case, we reaffirm ourselves in the position we expressed from this rostrum on 12 September 2017; therefore, today we will re-vote favourably to restart the process and complete that reform. The object of this first statutory reform - first of all because there is a second that will also have to come to this House - had to do mainly with the abolition of political outbursts, a proposal which, as it could not otherwise be, this Confederal Group shares, as we have stated on many occasions. Stuffings, indeed, have been losing their original function and today represent a privilege difficult to justify; in addition, in a context in which corruption has been operating in our country, and very particularly in the Region of Murcia, as a form of government, a form of relationship between political power and economic power, a relationship that subordinated the institutions to the interests of a few and served as legal figures such as stufflings to delay and hinder the action of justice. The drills have functioned as a closing mechanism, so that knowledge of the investigation and prosecution of cases involving political leaders was the responsibility of the courts in which this political power had and has a remarkable influence. Yesterday, the same expression from the Community of Madrid, Cristina Cifuentes, said that she was wrong when she left her seat, because if her case had gone to the Supreme, it would have been archived, and she, of this, knows something. Says the chorus that whoever made the law set the trap; of course, this is the conclusion that draws much of the citizenship. However, it is appropriate not to be deceived or deceived, to put an end to strangulations is a necessary step, but not enough. An effective anti-corruption policy would require more ambitious public measures and policies, for example, to reform the People's Party Criminal Prosecution Act, which has benefited so many accused of corruption; or, for example, to provide sufficient resources for justice or units such as the UCO, which have played a fundamental role in dismantling corrupt plots and which, as they themselves have denounced, are at a low level. [[Applauds]] But we also need to ensure that banks and large companies cannot buy political parties. That is why it is necessary to put an end to the rotating doors, in order to ensure that people are served in politics and not to use them. Of this, of course, some do not want to hear or talk, but the rotating doors are a structural mechanism of corruption, a device that demonstrates to the clear that certain parties have not worked for the general interest, but for those who financed it in B. And, finally, to end corruption we have to clean up the state sewers at once. You can't cry out against corruption and at the same time profile yourself when fabricating false evidence against your political opponents. [[Applauds]] In spite of everything, the suppression of strangulations - although, as I say, it is a measure of minimums - seems to us to be positive. The problem, in any case, lies in the hypocrisy of the one who makes this a political flag and the first of change has supported a party, the People's Party, which has dozens of imputed in the Murcia Region. Because, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, if you had a real will, a minimum real will to clean up the institutions, now you would not be ruling with VOX and the People's Party in the Murcia Region. [[Applauds]] The Region of Murcia, of course, deserved something better after decades of looting and looting of the public, and the people who are seeing us know what we are talking about: audit case, Zerrichera case, Operation Totem case, Umbra case, Barraca case, Nuevo Cartago case, and also Púnica case, that we knew last week that he cheated on teachers' cooperatives in Madrid and Murcia: this corruption that we have suffered in the Region of Murcia and that sinks its roots in the persistence of the oligarchical caciquism inherited from the old rural society, but also from client networks woven with the real estate bubble and that connects financial, business and political interests. The result has been nothing other than the kidnapping of the institutions of all by a few and for the businesses of a few. This is what economist José Manuel Naredo has defined as a neocaciquism with democratic clothes, pointing out that, in the face of supposed liberalism, this form of government requires strong public intervention through urban management and the permanent transfer of public money to private hands. Corruption, therefore, costs us the discredit of the institutions, erodes the values that must govern them and directly attacks citizens who place their trust in them. It is not something that we, this Confederal Group, say, but that the General Council of the Judiciary has encrypted in more than 1700 the cases opened in courts related to corruption crimes. Well, the problem is that many of these charges have been or are being investigated and will therefore not face justice on the same route as a citizen on foot, as they will be assigned a special court and certainly well-known judges. The so-called outbursts, which guarantee the inviolability, immunity and jurisdictional forum, that is, a procedural exception that has its origin in the historical claim to protect the parliamentary task and the exercise of freedom of expression, have been becoming - as we said - a privilege after which political representatives have been paralysed to delay judicial proceedings, achieving that even some cases will come to prescribe; an example, already said, of the former president of the Murcia Region. Therefore, and I conclude, today we are going to vote again in favour of this reform of the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia, because we believe that there are no objective reasons to justify these privileges, but unfortunately I fear that, with or without a new statute, we will not be able to rely on the tasks of democratic regeneration, in the new government of the Region of Murcia. The task of cleaning up the Murcia Region of corruption, corruption and corruption remains the work of Murcian civil society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, they will allow me to greet the broad representation of the Assembly of the Region of Murcia which has come to this plenary today: my dear President, my friend Alberto Castillo; the members of the Bureau; the regional Members, especially those of my parliamentary group; the Commissioners, who have been quite well; I also want to send a very special greeting to my vice-president of the regional government: dear Isabel, thank you for being here, and especially to all the citizens of the Region of Murcia who are here or who see us through the media. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, two years later the proposal for a partial reform of the statute of autonomy is again being discussed in this Chamber. For it has already been debated; it was debated on 12 September and its start was approved by this Chamber. And what happened? Mr Conesa, I already know that you wanted to start by giving strength from the beginning to the People's Party and to Citizens, but this is the Congress of Deputies, not the Regional Assembly, not the full of your town hall - both equally honored. Here you come and tell the truth, Mr. Conesa. On February 6, 2018, the period for tabling amendments - you would have to know that - was over and there was only one amendment tabled; one. That meant that the Chairman of the Commission had to make an appeal, a presentation, which would have taken only one day to make, and it was not done. Do you know why it wasn't done, Mr. Conesa? Firstly, because the President was indeed Mr Posada, who is from the PP and in these cases the PP drags his legs. Mr. Segado, we're back to the same thing two years ago. The answer to these questions - and I hope that when Mrs Sánchez Jódar comes down she will explain that you also asked these questions and that only the Citizens' Parliamentary Group did to the President - was that there were parliamentary groups that had not sent the list of their rapporteurs. [[shows some leaflets]] Yes, gentlemen. All of us here are now beating each other in the chest saying that we are in favour of strangulation, regeneration, transparency and good governance, but when it comes to working and taking a step forward, then no, friend, then you all drag your feet, except our parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] I wanted to tell the People's Party that they have to learn from the mistakes. The paper that the previous Commissioner, Mr Víctor Martínez, made, here two years ago you would not have to do it again, Mr Segado. You approved the reform of the statute, you approved the elimination of the squabbles, and you did so because the Citizens' Group, Mr Conesa, forced the popular party vote to be positive. It was not the Socialist Party, but Citizens, who were the same, Mr Conesa, who forced the resignation of the former president of the autonomous community. It wasn't the PSOE, it was Citizens, and you know it well. [[Applauds]] And you know why? Because for Citizens the fight against corruption, democratic regeneration, transparency and good governance of administrations are in our DNA, they are one of our flags. And not from you. Because when you talk about corruption in the Region of Murcia - and, indeed, the People's Party is champion in corruption in the Region of Murcia - you too have defendants, Mr Conesa; you also have defendants. [[Rumors]] That's why...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. Corruption and everything that leads to corruption is one of the problems that most concerns Murcian society, Mr Conesa. For this reason, Citizens of the Murcia Region put it as a priority, but since 2015, Mr Conesa, not now. We believe it is an unnecessary and unjustified privilege, as you have rightly said, but do you know what happens? That the perception that citizens have of the outbursts is that it is a defense that corrupt politicians have in order to be able to defend themselves. That is why we want to eliminate the pitfalls, so that we are a country of free and equal, a country where everyone has the same rights and obligations. In addition, strangulation takes the citizen away from the politicians who represent him, Mr Conesa. But let's go back to Murcia. The PP was forced to vote in favour, although not because of the Socialist Party's effort, but never had the conviction to eliminate the outbursts; they never had it. But do you know what's going on? That we have continued to work on that. In point 4 of the government agreement it is eliminating the stalemate; in the new drafting of the statute of autonomy it is eliminating stalemate. Unlike what Mr Robles has said, the new statute of autonomy is a statute that has been agreed, but it was thanks to the work of Miguel Sánchez as spokesman for the Citizens' Party in the assembly that he pushed, the one who began to give the timely force to this new drafting of the statute and to finish the work of a Commission that had three legislatures; that is, accompanied by the spokespersons of the other parties and led by the president of the Assembly of the Region of Murcia. I have two things to say, Mr. Conesa. Contrary to what Mr Robles said, we were talking not only about strenghts but also about the right to equal and non-discriminatory access to educational facilities; we were talking about the comprehensive protection of women victims of violence and we were talking about effective equality between men and women. Among many other things. But, Mr Sánchez Serna, I assure you that with the entry of Citizens into the Government of the Autonomous Community and their commitment determined by the regeneration, transparency and good governance of the administrations it will be achieved that, instead of opening the news stories with the famous news coming from Murcia, which are corruption or the capitalism of friends, it will be possible to get from Murcia to talk about working people, innovative people, welcoming people, their impressive cultural, artistic and gastronomic heritage or the variety of landscapes worthy of seeing it treasure. It is one of the great unknowns, a region that I invite you to visit.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u21	Mr. Garaulet, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u22	I'm done, Madam President. We will therefore vote in favour of the admission to this reform of the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia and we advocate that this House adopt this text, which would be a step further in providing transparency and regenerating Murcian policy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Garaulet. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I greet all the representatives of the Murcia Assembly and also your Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to represent my group in this proposal to reform the Autonomy Statute of the Murcia Region. Our position will be that the legislative process should continue and that we can continue to bring forward positions on the reform of the internal market. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party governs the beautiful region of Murcia and its mandate has been a prosperous mandate. This land has reached levels of prosperity that have consolidated Murcia as a modern, entrepreneurial, dynamic region, with self-government fully in solidarity with the rest of Spain, as it cannot be otherwise. All this has been possible thanks to the efforts of the Batians, whose future and prosperity must be the guide in this legislative reform and in all. And from the People's Party we want to mark the accent. In these times when politics sometimes becomes too liquid, from the People's Party we bring our experience, our will for permanent dialogue, our ability to seek agreements - as we have shown - and our solvency to manage the public thing. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, we would not like to make a difference on state issues, but we do, because we do not act on the dictate of the next elections, but we think of the next generations, because we are not obsessed with polls or with political opportunity or with electoral repetitions as appropriate. We think that this political opportunity must always be for Spain; behind every legislative proposal, behind every reform, behind every statute of autonomy, behind every change in that statute there must be a proposal for Spain, and that is what we advocate from the People's Party. And let me stop here, ladies and gentlemen. Murcia's self-government has generally been exemplary because its role was to fulfil its competencies and to fulfil well, and that fulfillment has generated that prosperity that we were talking about. Within the constitutional framework, the Government of Murcia has demanded more competences because it believed that they corresponded to it and has fought them in the field of play, with the rules on the table, with the democratic and constitutional rules, which are fully legitimate, and has proposed those statutory reforms, but it has always done so from the beginning of institutional loyalty. And on the basis of that principle extraordinarily fertile times have been built for Spain. Look, with our state of autonomy, with our constitutional consensus, we have been the third country that has grown the most in the world over the past forty years. It is to be proud, and we are, but it is true that we cannot die of success, we have a lot of capacity to improve if we do things right, with institutional loyalty. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on squabbles is more peaceful in doctrine than in politics. I would like to draw the House's attention to the position held by the Constitutional Court, which Mr Legarda quoted earlier, but without reading the text of the judgment; I will mention it. The Constitutional says that the prerogatives of article 71 of the Constitution aim to protect the legitimate representatives of the people from criminal actions with which their freedom of opinion is to be restricted, avoiding spurious or partisan causas that confuse, through the tortuous use of judicial processes, political and criminal responsibility and protect the independence of the organ and the exercise of the functions of the office constitutionally relevant. No, that is not what the People's Party says, we have not raised the flag of the embargoes, nor have we defended the embargoes because yes; the Constitutional Court, the highest interpreter of our Constitution, says, ladies and gentlemen, on article 71. So let's debate, of course we will debate! We're going to reduce the strangulations, we're going to see how we do it, but let's all sit down to make that possible. Because you know perfectly well that being caught up is not to enjoy any kind of impunity. If you know, tell your public offices not to demagogue with that in debates anywhere in Spain, because they are doing it, ladies and gentlemen. It has been said here that there are more than 250,000 outposts in our country and, of them, 2000 are political posts. We will have to reduce them, but we will have to do so wisely and rigorously, ladies and gentlemen, because we are here for that. No one enjoys impunity, as they are also subject to their jurisdiction, as all your ladies and gentlemen know. What happens is that populism has arrived, ladies and gentlemen, and it has arrived with its pocimas and its magical balms, and populism is confronted with the facts. It was said here that the People's Party was a champion of corruption. No, no; we are champions of reforms to combat corruption. Look, in recent years, while some have criticized the People's Party with slanders and slanders in which everything was worth, ladies and gentlemen, our party and our Government have been dedicated to making the most profound and ambitious reforms of democracy to combat corruption, such as banning donations from legal persons to political parties, has been done by the People's Party; banning the forgiveness of banking entities to political parties, has been done by the People's Party; the rigorous transparency of senior officials in their statements, has been done by a People's Party Government; criminalizing the crime of illegal party financing, has been done by the People's Party Government; giving more means to justice to combat corruption and many more measures, have been done by the People's Party. Therefore, to each of you, and to us, to the People's Party, to combat corruption with legislative measures and with seriousness and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Let me quote a measure that we are particularly proud of, which is to defend the presumption of innocence. We have done so in Murcia, yes; we have done so vehemently and rigorously, because many people have been unjustly accused, ladies and gentlemen, and we will do so again anywhere in Spain. As you can see, that hasn't invalidated us for a pact; it has strengthened us. Ladies and gentlemen, reforming the embargo cannot be a special forum for some parties to flood the political life of unjust political quarrels with which to make an accusation and build a political condemnation by waging a pyrical political victory - and I would say that it is detestable - with mere admission to a lawsuit. This makes political life a mulatto; and here we are not for that, we are to honor the institutions. And we have a duty to work with dignity, respecting people even if they don't think like us, respecting the acronyms, even if they're not ours. And, for example, in the People's Party computer trial, many political opponents sought summary condemnation, but now justice has excused the People's Party. Mr Sánchez, President-in-Office, wrote years ago, in connection with that trial, that the corruption of the People's Party was endless, and now we demand that he apologize to the hundreds of thousands of members of the People's Party and to the people whose honour has been tainted in that procedure unjustly. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. Our position is already known to you, we are open to the debate on the havoc proposed in this statutory reform, but with the firm will to reach a great national agreement. We understand that for some, all times are electoral; we do not share it because that is not the policy of capital letters and lasting basis. We will not enter into demagogy with the stumbling blocks; we will address reforms that are relevant exclusively, as we have always done, from the general interest. Thank you very much and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. Finally, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u26	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome and welcome the President of the Murcia Regional Assembly, the Members of our regional parliament and the people who have travelled to Congress to accompany us, especially the colleagues in my group. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me that the first item on the agenda for the first plenary session of this Parliament is devoted to talking about the region of Murcia; a plenary that we look forward to - and here I am addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations - being the first of many more. They do not let us down; they are no longer those who are here, but those who are outside hoping that there will be a Government. It's in your hands. [[Applauds]] It is an honour for me to defend the reform of the Statute of the Region of Murcia, not without first dedicating a brief review of the region that saw me born. In my region, my lord, the Arope poverty rate stands at 34.7% compared to 26.6% at national level. The average salary of the bats is the second lowest in Spain. If we talk about the average pension, in the Region of Murcia we find that it is the third lowest in the country. In my region, 39% of children are in poverty. Of the 300,000 children living in the community, 120,000 are at risk of social exclusion. On the contrary, we are leaders in public debt and, yes, in cases of corruption; in public debt, with 10 billion euros already doubling our annual budget, making us with the fourth highest percentage of Spain per region. As for corruption, unfortunately, there are already several studies, statistics and newspaper covers that ensure that it is Murcia that agglomerates the highest ratio of corruption. In my region, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has ruled for more than twenty-four years, the last four years supported by Citizens - essential support from the People's Party in the worst scourges of corruption that has taken place, thanks to the motion of censure presented by the Socialist Party, no matter how much it weighs, Mr Garaulet, to former President Pedro Antonio Sánchez - and for just a few months thanks to the agreement with Vox and Citizens. [[applause]] But we're not here to wear medals. As the leaders of the People's Party, a true tributary of losers, would say before. It is precisely this binomial of corruption-forcing that has made society and, therefore, its legitimate representatives question the prerogative of corruption-forcing, especially because of the numerous issues related to political corruption that have put into check the credibility of the institutions and of the people we carry out the noble work of public service. In the light of this picture, it is urgent to give a full and immediate response to a citizenship that will deepen in its disaffection if its political representatives do not act accordingly by eradicating privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that there is no room and no reason to continue to maintain the form of stifling - at least not in all cases - and for this reason the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Murcia Assembly has promoted the elimination of the stifling of Members, Members and Members of the Governing Council. First, in November 2015; then rejected by the votes against the PP; then, in April 2017, which was unanimously approved at the Murcia Regional Assembly; today we defend it in these Courts for the second time. Since then and to this day it has been two years, two years in which, later, other autonomous communities have done the same and have already managed to eliminate the prerogative of drilling, as is the case with the Canary Islands, of which we are very proud. In the meantime, in the Murcia Region, we're still the same as we were. Why? - Mr Garaulet, you say that here you are not coming to lie and I am not going to do the same as you, accusing the representative of the Socialist Group in the Regional Assembly of lying, because if by something Diego Conesa is characterized and by everyone is known is precisely because of his honesty; things, Mr Garaulet, are what they are and not what you want them to be. [[applause]] [[Mr. Garaulet Rodriguez shows some leaflets]] I will tell you why: because, although the procedure for this reform of the statute was already approved in September 2017 - by the way, with the abstention of the People's Party in this House -, since then the mixed, popular and citizen parliamentary groups, for more than a year, have been paralysing it in the process of tabling amendments calling for postponement week after week of up to eight, ten and thirteen times, respectively - and there is the documentation that certifies it, with dates, with days, all and each of the deadlines - By the way, the rapporteurs appointed by the Socialist Group and transferred to the Bureau were Gregory Chamber and María González Veracruz. [[Give it up.-Show me some leaflets.]] Eight, ten and thirteen times calling for an extension of amendments, intentionally delaying, intentionally, the processing of the statute It is predictable, being the People's Party, but Citizens, who presented themselves to the citizenry as a regenerating party, a party that came to clean up politics, has not hesitated to get fully into the carpets of the People's Party instead of lifting them, thus becoming necessary co-operators of the party that has the most causes for corruption. [[Mr. Garaulet Rodriguez shows some leaflets]] [[Applauds]] The People's Party, which you have decided to bleach, along with VOX, that is, with VOX in the shade, hidden so that you don't see much; you don't want to see them. [[Rumors]] The change promised, the regeneration, was that everything remained the same. Gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, this time parliamentary obstructionism will not serve you, so I invite you to join what is going to be, yes or yes, and despite you. I invite you to implement this partial reform of our status of autonomy - to materialize it, not to approve it here today - and to continue with this partial reform, as you have already done in other autonomous communities by eliminating the outbursts of parliamentarians. However, if this legislature does not succeed, the processing of this statute will fall. That is why I finish my speech as I started it. And I now turn to the Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common: Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. We conclude the debate on the first item on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u28	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic regulation of euthanasia. Mr López Álvarez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u29	Thank you, President. I will certainly not spend all the time I have for this initiative because we all know each other and at this point we already know what our arguments are because this is not a new debate. The last time the socialists brought him in and discussed him in this House was in June last year and, despite the fact that the bill was taken into consideration, the systematic blockade on the People's Party and Citizens' Bureau prevented the goal from being achieved. [[Applauds]] That is why we Socialists insist, we want euthanasia to be recognised and regulated in our country because, although Mr Casado already told us that this is a problem that does not exist in Spain, it turns out that there is a social majority, that there are a million signatures collected and delivered in this House that say the opposite, that Mr Casado lives outside of reality and that they say that once again the People's Party and the right are going to stand on the sidelines of progress in rights and freedoms in our country because that is what it is about, it is about proposing and provoking a new legislative advance in the area of citizenship rights and, once again, it will come from the hands of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Yes, that is why one comes to this rostrum with a certain pride, a new right from the hand of the socialists, but on this occasion I assure you that we come to this rostrum with much more humility than anything else because for many people, for too many, we are already late. That is why I want to apologize to Ramón Sampedro, Immaculate Echevarría, María José Carrasco, my dear neighbour Maribel Tellaetxe and all the people and families whose names have not come out in the media, but who have endured the desperation of suffering without limit. [[Applauds]] I apologize, but we also want to tell you that today again, and I hope this is the final one, we want to begin to put an end to so many gestures of unbearable pain and so many sighs of despair at a life that has been dehumanized. Euthanasia means etymologically sweet death or good death and what better than a good death as a colophon of a dignified life. You have to make me a promise. On the day that I do not remember one of your names, on the first day that you see that I confuse you, that I do not know what you call yourselves, please do not wait for me to forget you, that I do not recognize you as children or that I do not recognize you at all, that day you have to help me to go. This is what Maribel told her family when the first symptoms of the disease appeared. The day I start forgetting to love, I want to stop living. Do we know, can we even imagine, how much love had to have in the children, in Maribel's husband to promise his amatxu that they would fulfill his will? How much do I tear to make this promise? How many emotions? Yes, but it is not worth exhilarating with testimonies like this and expressing sound signs of regret if we then move on and continue allowing sick people and families to spend their last years in hell of pain and forgetfulness because the law tells us that it is not they who can decide about their life in these circumstances and that they are forced to endure months, years, sometimes even decades of physical and psychological torture because some continue to believe that this life is a valley of tears that does not belong to us. Well, that's not true, there are many things that can be done to prevent this suffering, and that's what we want with this initiative. That is what today is about, whether or not we want to achieve it; today it is about saying yes or no to the regulation of euthanasia and starting to work to make it a reality. That is why I am not going to go into details on technical issues and on the details contained in the non-law proposal - we will have time for this - but I can tell you that we are aware of the complexity of this matter, that we have drawn up our proposal with the participation of collectives, experts, professionals, affected families, to whom I would like to thank, on behalf of my group, for their collaboration and their contributions in order to obtain an articulated text which, as everyone acknowledges, perfectly reflects the requirements that appear in the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly defines the situations in which euthanasia can be applied and, above all, which contains all the necessary guarantees, all the guarantees, from a legal and health point of view, for both patients and professionals. I already know that some group will try to confront this law with the law of dignified death and palliative care itself, but this makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen, because they address different issues and situations and are absolutely complementary issues; and to say that one unnecessary fact to the other is to mislead and distort the objectives of each one. Of course we have to draw up a law of dignified death, we almost got it in the previous legislature and we are ready to do it again, because we want to guarantee the quality of life, we want to extend life does not mean prolonging suffering; someone has already said this: it is not so much about adding years to life as it is about adding life to years. So of course that palliative care and dignified death, we do not have to convince the socialists of this, the socialists are already convinced that pain does not purify the soul. Unbearable pain, and no matter how physical or psychic, dehumanizes and cannot be used the excuse of palliative care as a false mockery to not assume its responsibilities with euthanasia. And no, we have been in other things, but we are not pioneers in this. Other countries have already recognized euthanasia and have done so with laws that have different names, but which face the same fact: to the need to regulate from the public authorities the decision to end a life when the owner of that life repeatedly manifests that his future has lost all humanity, and that to survive, because that is not living, is now just an unbearable experience. And seen thus, this should not be a question between left and right, it should not be a question of ideologies, but simply of humanity, of defending the dignity of life. I don't even think it's a matter of religious belief, because I'm convinced that there can be no God who blesses unbearable suffering. When full life is no longer possible, when life cannot be lived, when life loses even its name to mutate in despair and suffering, when a person, having lost everything else, has only the act of freedom left to decide on his own death, there can be no authority to prevent it. Some will say that life is the supreme value to defend, and we agree. No one has the right for any reason to nullify another person's life. That is why, among other things, our Constitution prohibits the death penalty. The only implacable sovereign is nature, but we do not even advocate that nature follows its course unpunished. We put all possible means to reduce their lacerations, to make the will to live face nature itself, but, when life ceases to be lived, we claim the right of each one to decide how to face his own death. The essence of liberal democracy is to define the spaces of personal decision that public authorities are forbidden to invade, to define the spaces in which the only sovereign is the person. Today's bill recognizes this space of personal decision outside the power of the State, it recognizes the sovereignty of the self to decide how to face its own death so that it is a good death. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we are Members and Members of different ideologies, who have different values and different thoughts, but to whom common humanity unites us and we should not be afraid to agree on this issue for different reasons. Some can support this initiative because they are deeply liberal, others can do so out of compassion for the suffering of others. Socialists do this because, along with the right to life, we want to recognize the right to good death, but I believe that we can all do it for humanity and without making excuses. Let us not be moved when we see or hear testimonies of deep pain and when that pain seeks a dignified way out of euthanasia, as an act of supreme love for life, let us turn our backs on them. Let's act, let's not be late again. I'm done. This is the first initiative that the Socialists have wanted to bring to the House in this legislature and we have done so because that was our commitment to those in our society who are raising awareness and fighting for the right to euthanasia to be recognized. In addition, it was a personal commitment of the President of the Government, who understands that politics must serve to respond to the just wishes of citizens and that a decent country cannot tolerate more cases of suffering like those we have known in recent times without doing anything. And we have also brought this initiative because it symbolizes very well what this legislature could be, the legislature of the consolidation and conquest of new rights, that of the recovery of lost freedoms, the legislature of social and territorial cohesion, that of understanding and collective progress. We just have to agree on what we want this legislature for. That, of course, is the will of the socialists and we would like others to contribute that will to add because there are many for what. I know it would be worth it, so let's not hurt him. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. It has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mr Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a new case of using the institutions for the electoral interests of Mr Sánchez, another element of his personal election campaign designed the day after the elections and in which he has worked hard to find culprits among the rest of the political groups despite not having made the slightest effort to resolve the situation for which he alone is responsible. The proof, ladies and gentlemen, is in the first proposal of law that your group brings to this House less than two weeks from the deadline for the convening of new elections: a law on euthanasia, an obscene use of terminal patients for their final five-month stalemate; a law that is a wink to the electorate of Podemos, as it did in May 2018 after the motion of censure after having rejected in 2017 all the texts submitted by Podemos well as proposals of law, as well as amendments to the entire bill of other parliamentary groups in a clear exercise of not innocent political mutation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party proposes this deconstructive social engineering law under the premise of being a social demand of today's society and yet we know that the last opinion expressed by the Spaniards in the CIS was in 2009 and had only 2431 interviews with ambiguous questions that led to the misunderstanding. Look, before questions like: Do you agree with dignified death?, there was 80% favorable. Sure. The weird thing would be that it wasn't a hundred percent; I also want a dignified death. But, if you had asked yourself, it would have been the truth, that is, if you had been: If you were a terminally ill person, would you prefer to receive treatment to eliminate your pain or that you, or your doctor, put an end to your life? To eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, alternatives produce bias, which is probably what the Socialist Party was looking for. I have never seen, ladies and gentlemen, in the CIS the concern of the Spaniards for euthanasia; what I have seen is a lot of ignorance, I have seen a lot of confusion, I have seen a lot of lack of information about euthanasia, the active and passive, the direct and indirect, the assisted suicide. And if there is no social support, ladies and gentlemen, neither is the number of countries that support euthanasia justifying it. In Europe only the Benelux, and outside Europe, Canada and five States of the United States of America. Look at you, an insignificant, ridiculous number, very small among the nearly two hundred sovereign countries that exist in the world. Have you asked England, France, Germany and Italy what their position on this matter is? Do you know that the Clinton Administration in the United States had legislation in this area, which even presupposed it, and which went back when it listened to its healthcare professionals? Ladies and gentlemen, if it is not a social demand, if it is not seen as a problem in the CIS, if there is a huge lack of knowledge in such a sensitive matter, if there are hardly any countries with experience and the experiences we know, especially the Dutch, are so bad, why is this law here? Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you do not know that a committee on euthanasia was set up in the Senate in 1998 where doctors, philosophers, bioethics, jurists and activists appeared and where the vast majority of people spoke out against euthanasia legislation, and did so unequivocally. Maybe they don't want to know. And do you know that a few months ago in Portugal, a country that inspires you so much, rejected the law of euthanasia? And you know who killed her? The Portuguese Communist Party, the PCP, knocked her down. And you know why they did it? Let me read the arguments of the Minutes: because it meant a retrogression in our civilization - the Portuguese Communists said - and because it meant entering in the legal order of a nation of the European Union for the first time in history the right to kill - I recommend that they read it thoroughly - and because a law of euthanasia pressure people to choose an early death in case of suffering. The leader of the Communist Party in the Parliament of Portugal, João Oliveira, strongly expressed that, in the opinion of the communists, decriminalizing euthanasia would contribute to the consolidation of political and social operations that lead to a loss of value in human life and introduce a relevant social problem, as it would exert pressure to direct all those to whom society refuses, to whom it does not respond or support their situation of special fragility or necessity. The question - he said - is whether in Portugal, in the face of the suffering of a person, the answer is to mobilize all the means and resources - of which we have more and more - or, on the contrary, if it is directed to people towards early death. And he added: Life is not worthy only when, and while, it can be lived in the full use of physical and mental abilities and faculties, and society must ensure the conditions for a dignified life at all stages of the human journey. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the left of Portugal dropped four bills on euthanasia last year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very irresponsible to regulate euthanasia in Spain without resolving palliative care. Today there are 75 000 patients who are susceptible to palliative care and half, 50%, do not have access to palliative care. For this reason, a few months ago we passed in this House a law on rights and guarantees in the final process of life with a broad consensus and that ultimately remained in the Senate because Pedro Sánchez called for elections. That is why the Spaniards are also surprised that Citizens have abandoned the agreements and their previous position five months ago to, with a new turn back - I think quite opportunistic - join in the processing of this law of euthanasia, knowing that without a law of palliative care you cannot pass a law of euthanasia. The terminally ill, ladies and gentlemen, have fewer opportunities, fewer rights and less guarantees; and you, Lords of Citizens, instead of saying no to this unrighteousness and defending with your fingernails and teeth the law that we passed among all and in which you said you believed, today you are going to get into the hands of Podemos, losing centrality and responsibility and becoming the stewards of this electoral act of the Socialist Party, which I hope will remain only in this and never reach the most vulnerable patients in our country. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, with your positive vote today, change your previous view that before talking about euthanasia, palliative care had to be legislated and extended and that there was no point in doing so in any other way. My question is why. Why have they changed again? Why do they also have us lost and confused in a matter as delicate as it is? Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, the People's Party, like many other countries in the world, such as the organization of doctors in Spain and many patient associations, has another alternative; an alternative that is effective, humane and responsible and that is the universal extension of palliative care, because the universalization of palliative care would make euthanasia legislation absolutely unnecessary. It is a solution that does not attempt to deliberately precipitate death or unnecessarily prolong life. It is a solution that means legislating on how to alleviate the suffering of people without having to eliminate those who suffer them, because with palliative sedation the goal is not to end the patient, but rather the suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, it means, ultimately, developing comprehensive multidisciplinary units of excellence to care for terminally ill persons with dignity, composed of doctors, psychologists, social workers, nursing graduates and other healthcare professionals. Believe me that today it is possible to eliminate virtually all pain with adequate palliative care if sedation is included in the necessary cases. Ladies and gentlemen, it is palliative care that truly promotes autonomy and dignity. What cannot be allowed is for one more sick person in our country to die in bad conditions precisely because we have not made these means available to him. Therefore, from the People's Party we propose a norm of comprehensive care at the end of life, a law that extends that universally guarantees access to the rights of palliative care; that guarantees the conditions for a dignified and painless death to terminally ill; that homogenizes the laws of the autonomous communities that have already advanced and that boosts those that have not done so; that improves more and better the specialties of palliative care; that strengthens geriatrics; that improves information and training; that strengthens the vital will, the document of anticipated wills or previous instructions; that invests more in addressing the chronicity of social health services; that improves home care, working with all families so that patients do not feel despair, do not feel that they are a hindrance or that they are a burden, so that they do not feel family deficiencies, that they die alone or abandoned, but that they are accompanied in fragility, humanizing death, helping the patient to live the best possible period. That, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with euthanasia or ending the patient's life. We must devote resources, because if we do not put the means in place for all this, it will not reach the people who need it most. What is needed, ladies and gentlemen, is a good medicine for terminal patients and chronic patients. What is needed is a commitment to the National Palliative Care Strategy, to the National Chronic Care Strategy, to the National Alzheimer's Plan and to other dementias, to the National Family Relief Programme, to the National Chronic Loneliness Strategy, to the 250 000 people who are currently on the waiting list of the dependency, to the 100 daily people who die because they do not have access to the benefits of that law. Ladies and gentlemen, the easy, the comfortable, the simple and the cheap is euthanasia. The responsible, the good, the human and the proper is a palliative care law. Outside there, ladies and gentlemen, there are nine million people who are waiting for your answer, who are waiting for your vote, and many more who are waiting for a law that simply assures them that if they are in a situation of fragility or vulnerability, their light will not be turned off without further light. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to rise once again to this rostrum on behalf of my group to do what can most dignify the work of a Member, which can most fully fill and give meaning to parliamentary life, which is to defend from this rostrum the life, dignity and physical integrity of the weakest, the most fragile and the most vulnerable citizens. We're always going to defend them, we're always going to defend care at the end of life, because that's progress. That should consist of progressiveism and not, like another of its policies, in advancing only solutions that seek death. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u32	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. Having used a counter turn, the possibility of a replica turn is opened. To that end, Mr López Álvarez has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u33	Thank you, President. Mr. Echaniz, you have done what we already anticipated; in fact, I had already said that some group was going to try to oppose the proposed law on euthanasia to palliative care, which makes no sense, because the two things are complementary and we should not mix them. Could you tell me what palliative care Maribel's children or husband could have had when he no longer recognized them? When your life went out in those circumstances, what palliative care is there, can you say? The easy, the comfortable, the cheap, the euthanasia? Are you able to look at the families who have asked to take advantage of euthanasia and tell them that they have done the easy, the cheap, the comfortable? But what kind of moral waste is that? But how can you reach those limits? It's trembling! [[Applauds]] I used to say that this is a question of ethics, of humanity and that it should not be ideological. I knew it was a lie when I said it. Here is one of the deep differences between the left and the right, one of the deep differences between socialists and the non-liberal right, in how we conceive of the freedom of the individual, in how we understand the deep meaning of plurality and the diversity of values that exist in our society. You will see, every time socialists make a proposal for a law like this, we make it to ensure that that plurality of values in society can be put into practice, and we leave it to the sovereignty of the self to decide. For example, when socialists defend religious freedom we do not want to prevent the practice of religion; what we want is to prevent anyone, by handling the threads of the State, from imposing theirs on us. When we socialists defend freedom of identity, we do not want to prevent identities; what we want is to prevent anyone, by handling governments, from telling us how to be good Spanish, good Basque, good Catalan or good Andalusian. The great difference between the left, the socialists, and the non-liberal right is that we understand the power of the State to guarantee the freedom of the citizen to choose, and you want to use the power of the State to impose on us their ideology, their religion, whom to want and how to die. [[Applauds]] We, with this law, pretend that people can decide to die with dignity, good death, which is what euthanasia means. Look at what difference, the power of the State to guarantee freedom, from the power of the State to impose. I am very proud of that difference between the left and the right; I am very proud of that difference between the Socialists and you. That's why the question is: Is there really someone in your ranks who, beyond saying it, is really liberal? I say to him, "No one; there is no one." Because a real liberal defends the freedom of the individual. Because you will see, Mr.Echaniz, this bill does not force anyone, it does not force you or anyone, but you do want to force everyone to commulgate with mill wheels; make all the particular values of your part binding. This proposition of law is not intended to end life, but to dignify death. You do not intend to prolong life; you want to prolong agony, and we are not willing to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u34	Thank you, Mr. Lopez. I now give the floor to Mr Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr López, you said at the beginning of your speech that you did not want to enter the law or the technical details, and I am not surprised; it is normal that you do not do so, because if you entered, if you had the slightest idea of what you are talking about, you would be at this moment stale, frozen or ashamed. You have said, Your Honor, that pain dehumanizes man. Believe me, there's nothing more human than pain. What is essential on the part of society is to help alleviate pain. Mr López, in order to demonstrate the proof of the nine that you are today in an election campaign on behalf of your leader and that you have changed your political position radically recently, I want to read you literally a paragraph of your colleague's speech recently in this House on this very same law. It said Don Jesús María Fernández Díaz, who I think you know because you were a member of your Government: 'That is why it is not surprising that the majority of the Spaniards - this socialist of your group said - support the right to a dignified death; not to assisted suicide or euthanasia, Mrs Sibina - told the Podemos Group - as you wanted to make believe here. I have gone to the sources; I have gone to the website of the Demoscopic Institute, to which you refer, and look at what it says here: 84% of Spaniards support dignified death.' 1 Therefore, do whatever you prefer with your citizen consultations, but please do not distort the polls. In addition, comprehensive palliative care for many people dying in Spain is still being denied today. According to the latest analysis of palliative care, these reach barely 50% of the people who could benefit. But it is not only Jesus Maria Fernández; Don Gregorio Camera Villar, very recently, literally said about the case of Holland: '... the established system is not only exempt from strong criticisms, criticisms that have to do with the insufficient guarantees established in the Netherlands, with the poor supervision of medical decisions, with the weakness of the guarantee of control a posteriori and with the argument of the so-called slippery slope, consisting in the progressive expansion that is occurring from the suicide assisted to euthanasia, from the terminal patients to the chronic ones and from the physical disease to psychological suffering and, even so, to the existential suffering; it also affects the data of the high numbers of euthanasia practiced in this country in comparison with others...'. 2 The only relevant European case that exists, which is that of Holland, is strongly criticized by the Dutch, by the doctors and even by the members of your group, Mr López. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have turned around like a sock, but it is very important that I make it clear today that the Committee on Bioethics of Spain is against and the highest body that brings together all the medical professionals of Spain, the General Council of Official Colleges of Doctors of Spain, is against euthanasia, and that is why in its assembly it has reaffirmed the commitment of all doctors for the service of the human being and society, for the respect of human life, the dignity of the person and the care of health, and has also declared that the doctor has the obligation to implement the appropriate measures to achieve the well-being of patients, even if a shortening of life can result from this. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no need for euthanasia laws to address pain and suffering in 2400 years since Hippocrates. Believe me, what you're proposing right now doesn't make any sense. In most cases in this terminal situation people are not fully capable or free, they are in a state of confusion, of great confusion; they just want to escape the situation, they are only in full faculty 1 Diary of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies. Plenary and Permanent Chamber. XII Legislature, No 42, of 28 March 2017, p. 24. 2 Diary of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies. Plenary and Permanent Chamber. XII Legislature, No 40, of 21 March 2017, p. 28. mental decision-making and many are depressed, afraid of losing mental control and physical deterioration. Do you know that most psychiatric patients at some point, at some stage of their illness, want to die of depression, anxiety, anguish, and that if we let them how many would choose the final solution? How many, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know that the American Psychiatry Association, the most important in the world, says that you should not help a psychiatric patient die, and how many of those terminally ill patients have, in addition to their physical illness, a problem of the mind - depression, anxiety, distress -? Well, many, ladies and gentlemen; almost all. What culture will we leave our children, ladies and gentlemen, if we tell them that the sick do not deserve the protection of all? Our society's response to someone who wants to die cannot be conformity, it has to be the active struggle to put all the means at our disposal for their well-being and to alleviate symptoms and deficiencies. Ladies and gentlemen, someone might think, by simplifying, that these Socialist Party members want the patient not to suffer, and these others do. And nothing further from reality. We all want a good death, we all want to be treated effectively against pain, we all want to be properly informed, we all want a respectful treatment; but, given the complex and polyhedral problems, not always the simplest, easiest, most comfortable or cheapest solution is the best. No one defends therapeutic obstinacy, but between this and the other extreme, also negative, which is euthanasia, there is center.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u36	Mr. Echaniz, you'd have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u37	I'm done, Madam President. There are palliative care, there is respect for the patient and professional and human support for the patient and his or her family; there is the use of means proportional to the patient's need. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is going to defend what it has always done, with coherence and responsibility: to help the person to the maximum in the final trance of his life without ever seeking to bring him death. Kill pain and suffering, but never the person with pain and suffering. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u38	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u39	Thank you very much, President. Today I have an unpleasant, deeply unpleasant feeling; a feeling that we are wasting time. After what happened today at this meeting that was held, after one hundred and thirty days of meetings, this proposal for a law, if we do not remedy it, will fall again within thirteen days. While some are in numbers and surveys, life runs, life is not in function, and there are people who suffer a real calvary in life and those who should solve it, hinder it. This is a law that should be passed by now; there was a majority in Parliament, there is a social majority. The 2011 CIS asked the Spanish whether they wanted euthanasia and 77 % were in favour and only 9 % against. This law should be passed if the Rules have not been misused and the House has not been misused. Nineteen enlargements, and as life progressed, and as people died, and died ill. Mr López, if this law is finally passed, it will not only come from the Socialist Party, you do not have the majority; you lack fifty-three Members. This law will come for you, for us, for We can. Finally, by a parliamentary majority that it is, but not just by the Socialist Party. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I am in favour of palliative care. My mother had palliative care and had a good death, but it is deeply hypocritical that the People's Party, which did a life-long persecution of Dr. Luis Montes for helping many people die in the hospital of Leganés, claims just today palliative care. I find it deeply disgusting that this should be done after having persecuted a doctor alive. [[Applauds]] I'm done. A terminal cancer person: I want to live, but when my life is no longer life I want to die with a dignified death and no one tells me I have to die. You can't own my death, I'm the only one who owns my life and my death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u40	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u41	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This law combines two elements that are fundamental not only to the ideology of UPN but also to the Spanish Constitution itself. We talk about freedom and we talk about the right to life. And when we talk about fundamental rights, which is what we are talking about with this law, we should have a calm, deep debate about their horizons, about their perspectives, about their limits. But what is not appropriate is never an electoral debate on a matter of fundamental rights, which is precisely what the Socialist Party is doing today when it has changed the agenda of today's plenary to introduce this law. [[Rumors]] Yes, it was not in the first draft of the plenary and it has introduced it - with that possibility that groups have to change the laws that go to plenary - because it interests you today to talk about euthanasia; and it interests you to talk about euthanasia because it wants to do electoral with euthanasia, it wants to open the electoral campaign in Congress the deputies talking about euthanasia. We're not going to lend ourselves to that. If this debate finally comes to the Commission and the legislature - in this spectacle that the Spanish left is giving in this spurt - it will not end next week, if this is not the case and finally the issue goes to the Commission, where we will calmly address this issue, we will make the appropriate amendments because there are points on which we do not agree, but what they cannot ask us to do is to join that spurt that they are doing and to use euthanasia to open the electoral campaign, which is exactly what the Socialist Party is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. I now give the floor to Mr Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u43	Good afternoon. I have to tell you that I was listening to the PP spokesman and it seemed to me that I was in another world. Unfortunately - or fortunately - for my work it has been my job to be very close to many people who have had palliative care. In Álava, the territory from which I come, an important effort is being made in the development of palliative care, much is still missing, much is missing. Well, there are situations in which you can't respond with palliatives, there are situations you get to and others you don't, and you have to admit it. I even have professional friends who have participated in their opinions for a long time but who in practice have seen that there are situations that cannot be reached. What we ask you to do is not to hinder, be few or many - whatever - the will of people to own what they want to do and that they want to end up sometimes already because they can't anymore. And they don't because they don't have palliatives, they don't because they don't have resources. By the way, one of the things to highlight is that there is inequality also in death - I'm finishing -. Unfortunately, we are also talking about a social issue. There is a lot of social difference in the means of death. This is a key issue and an urgent one. What I do not share is that they bring her into a situation like this; that is, such an important law, such an important concept and that we can see that next week again we are on the table, that this project goes to the great folder that we have of unfulfilled promises by the inability of the Spanish political class to respond to the social challenges and demands of society. This issue is important but there are also other important social issues that are not being answered, unfortunately that folder of unanswered things is getting fat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. Finally, Mr Miquel and Valentí have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u45	Thank you, President. We announce, Mr López, that we will support your initiative as we have done every time a similar initiative has arrived in this House. We also do so because we do not believe at all in the moralism that laws and believe that giving citizens rights is not forcing them to do anything. We are absolutely against the idea that euthanasia pushes people, pushes the patient - and I quote - to death. We are convinced that giving rights is giving choices, giving choices to citizens to calibrate what suits them best in their lives. We are convinced that, precisely for the same reasons that the Equal Marriage Act did not force anyone to marry anyone who did not want to marry, this law will not do so. We will work and work - this is our obligation, as we have always said - so that they can arrive at that moment by choosing their decision correctly. And, therefore, we work for palliative processes that are of excellence, that are referent - I invite you to go through some hospitals in Catalonia to see how palliative cures are worked in Catalonia - but we also work for those who have the choice of palliative cures to choose the law of euthanasia to have their choice. Mr López - and that is what I end up with, Madam President - you said that you were here today with socialist pride, and I wonder what socialist pride you can talk about if the two initiatives that look like this were put on a dead track in the previous parliamentary term for the election of your president; I wonder what socialist pride you are talking about if it is possible for the initiative that we are voting here today to be put on a dead track in less than fifteen days for your president; and I wonder, Mr López, how can you talk about socialist pride if it is very possible that we all have to start from scratch in January so that citizens have the law and the rights they deserve. Mr López, the Socialist Party has not been a catalyst in this process in recent months. They have the possibility to start being a catalyst and not an obstacle, as they have been these six months, and in this they will find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u46	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Sweep on, good afternoon to all and everyone. When in the previous parliamentary term we discussed the taking into consideration of this same text that the Socialist Party brings us, I began my speech by recalling a magnificent and heartbreaking sonnet by José Hierro about life, about death, above all, about nothing. And this memory comes to mind because what it was all about is how we face the end of life when life is no longer life. We cannot and must not understand life as a void contrary to any minimum of dignity where suffering is the only thing that keeps you alive, where you only live to suffer and - most importantly - when the sovereign will of the person decides that that is not life. The sovereign will of the person. And if it's all nothing or nothing, it's all not decided by anyone outside but decided by yourself. We know that it is not so easy, neither ethically nor legislatively nor medically, since these are the three vertices in which we must support any solution to this reality in which will, ethics or lex artis medically sometimes misintentionally are mixed. Surely, each of us will have different visions, but what we cannot do is close our eyes, so do not see and therefore do as if something does not exist, and as we think it does not exist, think that it does not need any legislative framework. There is no doubt that every effort must be made so that people want and can live and provide conditions for that to be possible, but it is not the same as wanting to live as living. For centuries, from science, from philosophy, even from religion, has an attempt been made to answer the question of whether we own our lives? And, more importantly, are we the owners of our death? In any case, as a report drawn up by the Barcelona College of Physicians, among others, recently, the debate on the possible regulation and decriminalisation of euthanasia is not a medical but a social, ethical and political debate, and it is up to us to legislate on this, obviously taking into account the views of the people, of the professionals who will then have to develop this. If we can boast of something from the previous legislature, it is that it has been the legislature of the proposals on this subject: this was the third such initiative that entered the House. Previously we had Podemos, the Parliament of Catalonia and the Socialist Party, and lastly, the PP, a text that was lame and did not address the issue or solve anything, but I do not know if I will have time to talk later. By the way, Mr. Echaniz, we are no one's masons; my group, less than anyone. Be careful what you say! Be careful what you say! Because this law doesn't force anyone to do anything. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado utters words that are not perceived]] 'To have the right to' is not 'to be obliged to'. Maybe it's because you understand a lot about obligations and little about rights. But none were approved. Why? Mr López said that because of the paralysis he suffered in this House. Partly yes, but also because the PSOE didn't want it. We should have already passed a law of euthanasia, the same one we were working on. It is your responsibility, therefore, that it is not approved, because the groups that we support the motion of censure for precisely passing laws like this or for abolishing laws like the Lomce or that of official secrets, etc., we have seen our expectations frustrated because the calculations and electoral whims of your president were priority and dissolved the Chambers when you wanted them. We gave them time; time you took away with the election call. Therefore, it is very good that they make many representations of prioritizing this, but it gives me that today too, given the events, will be left in water of drunkards unfortunately. At the time, the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliament passed the procedure. It called for the decriminalization of 143 of the Criminal Code. It was in that, not that of Podemos that was more developed, and we voted in favour, but, obviously, it was improveable. And here we have that of the Socialist Party which - we confessed and said clearly - considered that it was much more complete and that in addition to decriminalizing - appears in its preamble - went beyond that. As the spokesman who at the time presented this proposal has said, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled in one of its judgments that it is not acceptable for a country that has decriminalized euthanasia to have not developed and promulgated a specific legal regime. We agree with that, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of it being taken into consideration, because we believe that this is not a matter on which we should and cannot legislate lightly. Legal, health and freedom and responsibility anchors - rights and obligations - must be firm, without spaces for improvisation or ambiguity, with guarantees for patients and guarantees for health personnel, with clear legal coverage for those who have to assume responsibility for carrying out the express desire of the patient, as well as a whole legal and health itinerary that clearly conditions and marks the space through which it is to be transited, without any place for lightness. The patient's freedom and health obligations must be combined. There is no doubt that the significance of this issue is total; I will never defend that someone's life can be taken lightly, as has been expressed in this rostrum by some tortically, never. Or don't we know what cases we're talking about? Or do you not know that you are manipulating when you are saying that what is intended is the easiest, the cheapest, the simplest? I join the criticisms that you have had, Mr Echaniz, because, apart from frivolous ones, they seem irresponsible to me. I don't know who we're thinking about when we say certain things that have been said in this rostrum. Therefore, please, let us not make frivolous judgments. We live in an open and advanced society, prepared to confront and resolve with total normality these kinds of situations, and we, as the Basque Nationalist Party, as political leaders and also as representatives of a democratic, plural, participatory, confessional, humanist and open to progress and all the movements of progress that improve the quality of life of people, consider it necessary and opportune to discuss and legislate openly on these issues that affect and will affect, whether or not we want each and every citizen, establishing the principles, criteria and conditions...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u48	Mr. Agirretxea, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u49	... to ensure - I conclude, Madam President - proper attention from the Administration during the final process of life. None of us here want to make a law against the dignity or freedom of people, and it is our obligation to provide all legal certainty to both professionals and patients. I hope that we will find the best way, but, for starters, I hope that we will find the opportunity to legislate on this issue. And I repeat again that it gives me the feeling that we will start again from scratch in many months. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u50	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cañigueral Olivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u51	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, do you have real will in your party to decriminalize euthanasia or is it another act of the election campaign that seems to have begun in July in this House? Do you believe in regulating the right to die with dignity or do you have an internal survey that tells you that presenting this proposal will give you votes in the November elections? I am saying this because four months ago and I do not see a real willingness to lead this progressive government that they are talking about in their campaign and while there are many social issues waiting on the table. Please do not play with the expectations and hopes of many citizens who have been waiting for years for us to establish the legal framework to allow them to die decently in this state. As it seems that the legislature will be short I do not want to miss the opportunity to give my opinion on its management to get a majority to govern this state. Shame on you! What a shame! Having said that, let us now focus on the regulation of euthanasia, which is already ten years late, at least. We are faced with a right to choose a worthy death, the right to decide freely how to live and how to die. Only the time and evolution of consciences will decide whether my request to die was reasonable or not, said the tetraplegic Ramon Sampedro, whom unjust laws condemned to live prostrate for years in the midst of immense suffering. At present, the law punishes those who, in an act of compassion, help a person to die, even if the person has freely requested him or her for being subjected to unbearable and irreversible suffering. We cannot allow a minute more than people who carry out acts of love, respect and dignity to face a sentence of between two and six years in prison. As we have often defended in this House, from the Republican Left of Catalonia we believe that the Penal Code must be reformed to give compassion and dignity to people in a situation of irreversible suffering. Twenty-five years ago the Republican Left of Catalonia brought euthanasia to this House. We defended him when no one did, and we were pioneers in claiming this right. But today I cannot and do not want to claim our trajectory without making special mention of the work of the Association for the Dret to Morir Dignament, which has been fighting for years to achieve the decriminalization of euthanasia, something that should be in force and that only the closure and the parliamentary blockade have prevented it from becoming a reality. In Catalonia, Councilwoman Alba Vergés has promoted the development of the Catalan law of euthanasia and the Parliament has already set up the working group to prepare the law. It is a law supported by 84% of Catalan society and all the political parties in Parliament except the PP, which does not affect much because in Parliament the PP has only four Members. As you are well aware, competence in health belongs to the Autonomous Communities and should be the ones that regulate this care practice, and of course our group will be vigilant in ensuring respect for its own competences, but this Parliament must decriminalise the current definition that makes a crime something that must be a right. Just as we defend the individual's freedom to face life, we also defend his freedom to face death; we will always work to ensure the right to decide: decide how we want to live and decide how we want to die, decide how we want the end of our life to be, decide how much we are willing to prolong a situation of suffering, ours and the people we want. Some have used the concept of palliative cures to avoid facing the real debate, palliative cures cannot be equated to euthanasia, they are not shielded in them. It is no wonder that many of the people who deny individual freedom the freedom to decide are also those who deny collective freedoms. We will support this proposal of the PSOE as we gave it to the Parliament of Catalonia and to that presented by Podemos. We are faced with a right to choose a worthy death, in short, we are talking about the right to reject unnecessary suffering. None of this has anything to do with crime, sin, suicide or murder. A new right does not oblige, simply allows and respects the will of everyone - I end up president -. Criminalization, on the other hand, prevents the will because it prevents the free exercise of a very personal right. To die to this day is inevitable, to die badly should cease to be so, to criminalize euthanasia is to prevent a dignified death and to condemn to suffering those who choose to live and die with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Cañigueral. Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has no legal, ethical, political or humanitarian justification. Euthanasia is one of the answers that you want to give to the demographic winter to balance the birth deficit, because not wanting to talk about birth, under the disguise of compassion - yes, ladies and gentlemen, under the disguise of compassion - because not wanting to talk about birth in the face of the pressing demographic problem in Spain, its only solutions are immigration and euthanasia. [[rumors]] This is a debate about the value of life not about the right to death, and life has a value in itself, its life, mine... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u54	Excuse me, Mrs. Mendez. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u55	The old man's, the boy's, the young man's. Life has a value in itself, it is an objective value and that value is not given to society, that value is not given to you, not even to yourself. It is an objective value that informs our legal system and it is a value that underpins the democratic system. To consider it otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, would have irreparable consequences already experienced in other times, because this law of what it tries to do is to put all the machinery of the State at the service of death. You defend yourselves to set up the right to die, first of all, on the grounds of humanity. We have heard how and how those reasons of compassion were claimed that, of course, at some point we agree on them, but the solutions you give are not the right ones because, if you want to alleviate the pain, and we assume the reasons of compassion, if you appeal to suffering and if they were reasons of humanity, you would have brought into this House a law of palliative care so that a person can die with all the appropriate medical relief and possible human consolations because 50% of the sick in Spain die with pain because they do not have access to palliative care. If you take the effort to talk to a specialist or professional in palliative care, you will tell them that when the pain is relieved to the sick and you are cared for and accompanied and, above all, you do not consider yourself a burden, no one wants to die. We have just heard an apologia of death appealing to compassion and feelings in an absolutely vehemently way. Well, it causes vertigo to discover that those same reasons that the representative of the Socialist Party claimed, that false humanity, those same reasons of false humanity that you appeal to, are the same ones that were used to pass one of the first euthanasia laws in the Third Reich, are the same reasons. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And if you think it's exaggerated, you can study history and then we'll talk about it because you can't rewrite that story, that story can't rewrite it. [[Applauds]] That is why we call for a palliative care law, also for labour reform, to regulate permits for family members who are to care for a patient in situations of such gravity and also to strengthen the Unit Act. Evidently, euthanasia is not the same as palliative care. Of course it's not the same! In one case, it is about eliminating pain and, in other cases, it is about eliminating the patient. Of course it's not the same! It's very different! Now you also appeal to the dignity of people and introduce the dangerous concept of a euthanasia context to decide which life is worthy to be lived and which is not. According to you, human dignity is destroyed by suffering, weakness, dependence or terminal illness. They unite dignity with the quality of life and, when this declines, life loses its dignity. Do you believe that people with a certain disease are unworthy? That's a real monstrosity. The brutal distinction between worthy and unworthy human subjects had great consequences. They also appeal to freedom and the autonomy of the will in a rather well-argued way, but it is an absolute fallacy because it is the perfect conjunction sacralizing the right to autonomy of will, that sovereignty of the self that you speak of, taking advantage of the prevailing individualism, you will implant the totalitarianism of the State that will decide who has the right to live and who has the right to die. Yes, it is the perfect conjunction to, in the name of freedom, attack that same freedom. Or is it that you do not know that it will not be the freedom that is exercised when this machine is set in motion? The euthanasia petition will be the last desperate decision that a non-autonomous sick person who does not have a doctor who relieves the pain or feels a hindrance or a burden will make. We can also agree with some of the arguments made today by the PP, really quite well because we agree in all the palliative care that they exposed, although it seems a little inconsistent that afterwards, ruling with an absolute majority, they do not turn back issues in which it is about the right to life and against our system of values. Our group defends life seamlessly from conception to natural death. It will, of course, vote against this law for the reasons set out above and also for the consequences that international experience shows. The consequences of applying a law like this are, first of all, reducing investment in palliative care, as reported by physicians in Canada. And secondly, that the door will be opened to all kinds of euthanasia, with or without consent, as is happening in the Netherlands: 6,000 deaths a year. First, consent is given and second, in relation to the physically and psychologically ill, consent is granted by a person for them. By the way, it scares how they approach the consent to die that another person can give on behalf of a person with psychic disability. Another consequence will be that the message will be sent to the sick that their life is not worthy to be lived and the system will pressure those who want to do so to ask for it and a relationship of distrust will be established between the doctor and the sick and also in the families themselves. In conclusion, this law, like that of the right to abortion, seeks to change the mentality of society, to change our culture of life for a culture of death, to subvert the values on which our Constitution is based. Moreover, it takes advantage of the absence of a prior remedy of unconstitutionality along with the scandalous inactivity of the Constitutional Court in such an important matter to establish a system in which the life of man will be subjected to the force of the State, which will determine whether a life is worthy or not to be lived.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u56	Mrs. Mendez, you should finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u57	I'm done, Madam President. It is the State that will determine which life is worthy of life and which is not, in some cases by a materialistic conception of existence and in others by mere economic or useful criteria. It is the culmination of a dehumanized plan, where life is worthless. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, only by reason of corruption can this be called conquest or progress. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I must honestly say - some members of my parliamentary group were commenting on this by chat - that we are deeply uncomfortable with this debate. Euthanasia seems good to us, we are in favour - we have fought and we will continue to fight for it - but what is spoken in these terms, deeply electoralist, is a lack of respect for all people who are desiring to die decently and who at this moment cannot do so. [[Applauds]] I insist that it is always good news to talk about this. You have told us how things have been going in this House, but you have forgotten to tell us about everything that happened before your law came to the Congress of Deputies. I remind you that two and a half years ago, in March 2017, Unidad Podemos presented a law on euthanasia, a law that was not even ours but the collectives, which we have defended a lot, a law elaborated by many experts in bioethics, medicine, sociology, law, a law drafted by doctors, whose work I understand they respect, like Luis Montes. In this regard, it should have been taken a little more into account, but at the time they decided to vote against it and we could discuss it. Our attention was sovereignly drawn because only two months later you presented an exactly the same one. His excuse for that time was that Spanish society was not sufficiently prepared to debate euthanasia, that there was no social consensus and I insist that I do not know whether at two months the society was already deeply prepared to talk about it and that a law should be presented exactly as ours. What was clear, Mr Patxi López, as it is today, is that you share what is euthanasia, but not because you have a special sensitivity in relation to this issue, but because it is an electoral issue, like any other, and, frankly, that leaves much to be desired at a time like this. Yes, I'm sorry, retort, but that's what we feel and what we really think is going on. They said, I repeat, that society was not prepared; that was the excuse they gave. The CIS in 2011 - in 2011, not even yesterday - already said that 78% of Spaniards agreed; 70% of doctors agreed; the latest surveys we have of Metroscopia say that 87% agree with the law of euthanasia. Therefore, that excuse fell by its own weight. The serious thing about this whole matter - as the rest of our fellow spokespersons have already said - the serious thing about all this is that during all that time there have been a lot of people going through it badly and there have been cases like the one we've all seen, the last media, that happened in an election campaign in which we all filled our mouths saying that we were very humanist. We saw that a few months ago. Frankly, and I believe that being fair to the Socialist Party, this is not a matter that has been solely your responsibility. You introduced a law two months later and we voted for it because it was a matter of political responsibility and it was what we had to do, a law that has been blocked for months and months by the People's Party and by Citizens taking advantage of which they had a majority in the Bureau of Congress. That's true, but what we're really worried about is that we're losing this opportunity again; what we're really worried about is being practically a week away from knowing if we're going to go to an election campaign or not debating this, playing with people's hopes again and that that's a unique and exclusive responsibility of the Socialist Party. Are you doing this for a matter of ideals? Because it's not clear to us. Are they doing it for a matter of ideals, because they really believe in it? If it really is, are you going to introduce him a week before you know if we're going to go to elections or not going to elections? Because that's really serious. [[Mr. López Álvarez: You'll know]] Don't point to me, because unfortunately I didn't win the election on April 28. And the worst of all - and with this I finish - is that we are going to vote in favour; the worst of all is that we are going to vote in favour, and we are going to do it on a single question of political responsibility alone. We don't care if it's the Socialist Party's PL. If we had introduced it Citizens, we would have done it, and if we had introduced it Republican Left, we would have done it, because it is a matter of political responsibility. That's where the difference between the Socialist Party and the United Nations is. We can sometimes, that we understand political responsibility as something like that. [[Applauds]] The last thing I ask of you, and I ask you very honestly and sincerely because I believe that the issue deserves it - we are not talking about anything I did; we are talking about something very serious - is that although we vote that we do at least pledge not to open the door to this lady's speech, this lady may be the next Minister of Health, and you know it. [[pointing to the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[Rumors.-Applause from the VOX Parliamentary Group.- Mrs Méndez Monastery stands up and greets the members of her parliamentary group.]] I sincerely prefer it not to be, and I think that, like us, a lot of people would prefer it not to be. Frankly, I ask you - as with such subjects and we are voting in favour of it even if you have voted against a proposal of ours I think we make it clear - I just ask you not to always take us as a competition.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u60	Mrs. Vera, there's one and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u61	I'm done. I ask you not to always take us as competition and that sometimes, as we are doing with you on this occasion, take us a little as allies. Thank you very much, Mr Patxi López; thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Vera. I have the floor for the time remaining for the parliamentary group, Mrs García Sempere.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u63	Thank you very much, President. All have been told, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party: they campaigned with the pain of the people in the previous elections; they campaigned with the terrible case of Ángel Hernández and María José Carrasco. The problem is that when they bring this law today they bring it without having closed a government agreement and without having wanted to close it, without knowing whether we will go to elections, if we can guarantee that it is admitted to process, so the only thing that we can think of ourselves, civil society and many organizations is that they campaign again with the pain of the people, and that in politics is to be very petty and to be very irresponsible. Obviously, I would like us to be wrong and to know that this is not what is happening and, as my colleague Noelia said, they believe it and it is something ideological, but unfortunately they do not point out ways. Since we are proactive and raise some of the issues, we are very afraid of the approach they have taken to prior controls. None of the countries mentioned above have previous controls because subsequent control is sufficiently guaranteed that none of the horrible and apocalyptic things posed by the People's Party and VOX will happen. But it is that, moreover, those previous controls want to leave them in the hands of the autonomous communities and that to us, as it is written right now that previous control, we are very afraid. Think of the autonomous communities in which the triple right-wing alliance is governing. The People's Party has already made it clear to me that euthanasia would never be applied in its autonomous communities. The Citizens Party, according to the government and with whom they are negotiating; we will see. And the lady from VOX has also made it meridianly clear. Moreover, they are lying, especially in the intervention of the People's Party. Look, palliative care and euthanasia are completely different things and correspond to different situations. If you worry about palliative care, stop cutting in health care and put the health care back in front of the payment of the debt to the banks, surely it would greatly improve the palliative care of this godforsaken country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u64	Mrs. Garcia, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u65	We will vote in favour - and I will finish with this - and, of course, we will shake hands with them, of course, so that there is a law of euthanasia, but not only so that we can get there is a law of euthanasia, but that there has to be a legislature and we have to give hope to the people who are demanding it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u66	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u67	President, colleagues, Mr López has started by saying that this debate should not be ideologised, but second, he spoke of the right and the left, which remains for this debate, because, if it is not to ideologize it and in that we agree, then we are talking about the left and the right gives us a bit of shame for others. There has also been talk of individual freedom. We agree in everything, we believe deeply in the individual freedom of each of us. I hope and do not want to look at any bench that you believe it in absolutely all situations and not only when the law introduces it to the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] We are going to vote in favour of it being dealt with, as we have done with the previous law also presented by the Socialist Party. Mr. Lopez said that the buts have to be put later. We have many buts as to how it is drafted, but once we enter the amendment phase we are sure that we can reach an agreement. This is a sensitive issue, a serious one, and we have to deal with it in the same way. That we have to regulate it is a reality, and reality does not disappear because we look elsewhere, that is true, but we believe it has to be through a guarantee process because there are too many consequences and many people involved. Thinking about people has to be the core of this initiative. The right to leave with dignity is a right that each one of us has. But let's think of each of us. Let us think about what we would do or how we would act if we were in a similar situation. Let us think about how we would act if a family member asks us for help in putting an end to his life. Let us also think if we want to make the suffering of a person close to us endure and then think about how each one of you would act. I am clear that I stand up for individual freedom and that I would not want to see anyone in my environment who I love suffer, if that person does not want to suffer. We are particularly concerned about the most vulnerable people and do not want the decision to opt for euthanasia to be one of loneliness, a socio-economic situation or because the system does not have the same benefits in all parts of our country because we are in an asymmetric state, that is the reality. We want the decision to be meditated on and not because there are no other options, but because it is really the will of the individual. That is what we have to guarantee in this House. In order to guarantee freedom and to ensure that everyone decides freely, we have to consider all the options. We do not fail to discuss the law that we have just introduced and that we have taken up from the previous legislature on dignity at the end of life. They're not exclusive, they're different things, but you have to regulate them. And to ensure that each of us can make the decision with full guarantees, we have to regulate all aspects, so that it is not black or white, so that we all have all the information and all the guarantees. In our asymmetric system, as other speakers have said, there are 50,000 citizens in our country who die without access to palliative care. We also have to say that the right to die differs if one is from Murcia, for example, or from the Basque Country: for every ratio of 100,000 inhabitants in Murcia there are 0.5 doctors specialized in palliative care, while in the Basque Country there are four. In a State where we defend the equality of all our citizens throughout the territory, these asymmetries cannot be allowed. That is why we include in our law - in this one we have re-registered - all the amendments already discussed and adopted in this House, which include the sentiments of all political parties. It is not about creating papers to create them, but about taking advantage of the work that has already been done to make it a reality. We are here to respond to the needs of all Spaniards, to defend individual law, so at the stage of amendments, as I said, we will make various allegations. We do not agree, for example, that there is no chapter 3 of this law, which regulates the guarantees of health personnel so that they can decide, or not, to assist or assist in such cases. It's broken up, it's gone. It seemed insufficient to us before, but now we see that there is no kind of protection for health personnel that can help at this stage. We also believe that frivolating or reducing this debate to decriminalization of euthanasia is not understanding the complexity of reality. Reality is much more complex and not only worth decriminalizing. For all this, I believe we will agree that serious, calm regulation is necessary and that it guarantees the rights and guarantees not only of the staff who assist, but also of all our citizens. And it is also necessary to process the law of dignity at the end of life, because they are not exclusive and because having all regulated we will be able to defend the individual freedom of all our citizens and their rights and wills. We will agree that guaranteeing the rights of our citizens until the last day must be a priority; we will also agree that no one should die with pain, at least I would not like any of my family members to die with pain, but we will certainly also agree that no one can impose unnecessary pain on another person. To finish, I'll do a reflection. Mr. Lopez was talking about humanity. I'm going to talk to you about humanity. I hope that the Socialist Party, which is bringing us this bill today, will also bring a parliamentary and government agreement, because if not today they will be deceiving all those people who are waiting for this bill and would have shown that they are using it as an electoral law. [[Applauds]] In the middle of the campaign, in a prime-time interview, Mr. Sánchez, with one of the cases cited by Mrs. Vera, placed this law as one of his priorities. If the law that is going to be debated today - I hope this bill will come forward and then work together - does not come from the hand of a governability agreement, you will be using all these people for the sole and mere fact of having one more muesquita in your next election campaign. Stop disrespecting the citizens, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] I want to remember one thing and I want to introduce it into the debate. He did not want to ideologize, but he talked about left and right, and the Socialist Party said they were proud to bring him in. I would like to remind many citizens of our country that the Socialist Party ruled with an absolute majority for many years and never ruled euthanasia. It's very good about the blows to the chest, but you have to set an example when walking. I hope that this week we will form a government, because if you do not, we will have disrespected everyone and especially the people who are waiting for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u69	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on autonomous financing. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Subjecting the autonomous funding to the approval of the General Budgets of the State is an unacceptable blackmail, said the councilwoman María Jesús Montero in 2018. On the contrary, a few months ago, when he was a minister, he made such financing conditional on the existence of General State Budgets. So it is with this government of Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen. We know that Mrs Calvo will say that Montero counsel and Montero minister are two different people, but I hope that the Socialist spokesman will not fall into the temptation to justify it by appealing that the current government is in office and that of 2018 was not. I say this because, as you all know, Mr Sánchez's Government was well able to pass the appropriate legal measures during the seventy-four days that they mediated between the majority rejection of his draft budgets by this House and the elections of 28 April; seventy-four days in which the Government was in full office; seventy-four days in which they devoted themselves to carrying out a costly election campaign with the so-called social Fridays, which were really socialist Fridays, and I say socialists in the sense that they approved expenses that they did not know, and still do not know, how they will pay. What they do know is that they will fail to meet the deficit foreseen by themselves and, in order to avoid it, they intend to keep the money that belongs to the autonomous communities. What is really social, ladies and gentlemen, is the provision of basic public services, public services for which the autonomous communities are responsible; I am talking about health, education, dependence and other social services. Solving their financing is a social measure, because besides the money does exist, Hacienda has already collected it and belongs to the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that the government was seventy-four days in full office campaigning, and now that it has been one hundred and thirty-five days with limited functions, they are continuing with the same operation: campaigning from the government so that Mr Sánchez does not fail for the third time in a hypothetical investiture. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. So much so that they do not even conceal their intentions when Mrs Montero or Mrs Calvo say repeatedly and without blush: the solution is in their hands, abstain. The Socialist Party thus intends to put the debate in terms that at least we find absolutely intolerable. [[The lady]] They come to tell us that if citizens want there to be money for health care, for education, for dependence or to pay bills to suppliers, there is only one solution, and that is that Mr Sánchez does not fail again. This is just a lie. You want to transfer to others the responsibility derived from Sánchez's inability to achieve the support that his person cannot get, if he is really looking for them, because one has the feeling that long ago he decided that the best thing for him, and only for him, is to repeat choices. This is what Mr Sánchez's PSOE policy means, replacing politics with propaganda, and public service with public abuse to meet Mr Sánchez's ambitions. And for this they are willing to use all the means at their disposal, from appealing to a report that did not exist to filtering an unsigned document to a medium of communication within forty-eight hours of discovering their gross lies. By the way, that report has not yet been submitted to the groups in this House, despite the fact that we have already requested it two weeks ago. Let me stop in that so-called report. That Mr Sánchez and Mrs Montero do not intend to solve a serious problem affecting the 47 million Spaniards is demonstrated by the fact that the legal services of the State are not required to facilitate a solution. In fact, the alleged report does not at any time state that there are no legal instruments in place to provide autonomous communities, municipalities and parliaments with funding that they have by law, and it does not say so because it would simply not be true, since there are and are several solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Xunta de Galicia, on the basis of a report from its legal services - the latter, signed and presented in the relevant Parliament and therefore publicly accessible - justifies the use of the mechanism of the Royal Decree-Law in this case. But, in addition, there are other possible solutions, such as the proposals by the People's Parliamentary Group: to enable a zero-cost credit for autonomous communities, municipalities and parliaments, and to provide them with money that Hacienda has already raised, which is in its coffers and belongs, because this is provided by the financing laws, to the aforementioned public administrations. Then, of course, we will have to adjust the deficit targets of these public administrations, taking into account that there will be a gap between credit and real income, since they are accounted for - as you all know - differently. Another possible solution - and we are also putting it on the table - would be to use the extraordinary financing mechanisms, either the FLA or the Financial Facility Mechanism, which are available to the Government to send them the more than €7 billion Mr Sánchez unduly retains. Finally, there is the ghost solution - if I may call it that - just as ghostly as the report by Mrs Montero, a solution planned by her herself for the next 15 December, which we do not know what it is or why it will be possible to apply on 15 December and not, for example, on 15 September. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, solutions exist. The People's Party has put them on the table, but what does not exist is the will of a government in office which considers that its only function is to work for Mr Sánchez and not for the Spanish as a whole. In this matter, as in many others, reality and the government in office go through different paths: there are, on the one hand, parliaments, municipalities and autonomous communities that provide essential public services and that have to pay those public services and invoices to their suppliers, mainly SMEs and self-employed, and, on the other hand, a government in office that considers that it has no functions or, rather, that it believes that it has only one: to make Mr Sánchez president. We have a reality that the citizens of this country live in, that they see the economy slow down, that they see their jobs in danger; citizens who already observe similarities with 2008, when the PSOE also denied them the reality; citizens who pay their taxes every month and who see how their money is not dedicated to paying health, education or dependency, but is held by Mr Sánchez to blackmail everyone in search of someone who wants to make him president. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, make yourselves as your colleagues in the autonomous communities who, except for dishonorable exceptions - as in Galicia - have supported the legitimate claims of the People's Party, putting the general interest before the partisan interest. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. If Mrs Montero claimed that making autonomous funding conditional on budget approval is unacceptable blackmail, let me say that making funding for health, education, dependency and other social services, and paying bills to SMEs and self-employed people, making all this conditional on Mr Sánchez's investiture, is an improper ugliness of a democracy like the Spanish one. And I announce from here that we will accept the amendment of the Canary Coalition, which comes to update this GNP, which was presented months before the transfer of funds from the final liquidation of 2017 took place, and I also announce to you that we have written a transaction with the Citizens Group and the Vox Group that we will bring to the rest of the groups of the House throughout the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which in turn will also lay down its position. The first, Mr. Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is a Spanish saying that I think defines perfectly what is happening here today: at good times green sleeves. We must see the transformation that takes place in the People's Party when it is in opposition and the transformation that takes place in the People's Party itself when it is ruling. I even like them when they're in opposition, I like them better. It happens to the PSOE, too, eh! In the preamble that you have made of this GNP, it seems that you are the greatest advocates of financing and I remember that Mr Olano and I entered this house together in 2011 when the People's Party - all that you see, my son, was of the People's Party - had 186 deputies, an absolute majority. And with all this, my son, they did absolutely nothing. They had a legal obligation to approve a new funding system and they went through everything; they went through everything. You speak in your preamble to the virtuous circle. They really like to talk about virtuous circles. I'll tell you a virtuous circle. The PP entered in 1995 to govern the Valencian Autonomous Community, with Mr Zaplana, and the Valencians owed 2750 million, 688 euros per citizen. In 2015, when he left the People's Party - well, when he left, when we made him leave - he owed 42 billion euros. Anyway, virtuous circle isn't much. I'm done. We have tabled two amendments, two which we thought were very complete. First, an eight-month commitment that the Government - whoever it is, in two weeks' time or in three or four months' time - commits itself to introducing a new funding system. And then let the issue of debt be addressed, because this debt that has generated us Valencians is absolutely illegitimate. And of course we agree on the deliveries on account and on that VAT money, which is not from the state, but from the autonomous communities, the autonomous ones and the citizens that we are in the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u73	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Secondly, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u74	Thank you, Madam President. On July 12, 2019 - Government in office, extended budget - the Council of Ministers approves the negotiation and signing of the contract and the purchase of tanks 8 x 8, the tanks 4x4 plus the planes coaches - congressmen and citizens of this country - for 2600 million euros. Come on, come on, come on, come on, General interest? More general interest than health, education, social services in this country? And a finance minister who says she can't leave that burden of giving communities the money they need for essential services to the next governments. Oh, but he does leave us the tanks, the planes and everything else for $26 billion! That's it! It meets with the current president of the Canary Islands, socialist, and my current president, socialist, of the Canary Islands, who is making the wave to the minister, is delighted because the minister of finance guarantees that by 15 December the quantities will be transferred to the autonomous community. But who is she? In December, either there is a new government in office, which will be exactly the same, or there will be another minister. And Ángel Víctor Torres, Socialist President of the Canary Islands, happy with the Minister's commitment. We have to have them! I think this is very serious. Three days ago the government announced that this year it will issue 7 billion less public debt. What a coincidence, the money that had to be transferred to the autonomous communities! You know what I'm telling you? This Canarian Coalition party is going to ask the state's attorney for a report on military purchases for $26 billion, which have not come to this Congress. I'm done. I represent the pride of islands that never give up, and this Member is never going to stop defending the interests of those proud islands, this land and this country before a minister who has prioritized political negotiations so that there is no Government - not for there to be Government but for there to be - to their responsibilities, improvising. And, if not, had known before that month that he took office and made the transfer; and, if not, had not requested that report from the Attorney-General of the State that announced before it existed. Nothing more, Madam President. It is already right in this country to play with the essential services given by the autonomous communities, with falsehoods, lies and without seeking solutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u76	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria is an absolute and deeply autonomous party, not only for historical and cultural reasons, but also from its origin for economic and efficiency reasons, for reasons of developing own competences. We have always defended decentralized competences but, of course, these competences must be accompanied by the resources necessary to finance them. And right now we are not just talking about economic resources, we are also talking about legal security, we are talking about budgetary security. When it is governed, one realizes how difficult it is at the end of the year to have a balanced budget, much more so in a case like this where all those forecasts that do not depend on the autonomous communities themselves cannot be carried out. Therefore, when the autonomous communities do not have this security to budget, the parties we are governing must demand that the Government of the nation put in place all the necessary mechanisms to compensate for them. For Cantabria, this represents an order of EUR 150 million, which is not a very large global amount but is high in proportion to our budget.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u77	Mr. Mazón, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u78	I'm done. Some EUR 103 million corresponds to 2019 and 50 for VAT. That is why we are going to support this non-legislative proposal. We believe that Parliament now has a very urgent task, and the Government has no more urgent task than to provide the autonomous communities with the necessary means to assume the powers and exercise them as they should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. That the situation of delay in the payment of the funding due to the Autonomous Communities is causing a situation of genuine economic suffocation is something that Mrs Montero has not even dared to deny. The situation is critical, it is dramatic and, by going down to the specific detail, being elected by Granada, the amount that is due for the update of the deliveries to Andalusia -1350 million euros, as you know, Mr Montilla - amounts to the financing of the entire policy of dependence foreseen in this year's autonomous budget. If today the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to defend the non-legislative proposal with the addendum amendment that we have tabled, it is precisely because it is peremptory that the Government takes immediate action to alleviate this situation. Because do you know what the current executive has been devoted to in the face of this situation that is harming the citizenry because it affects essential public services such as education, health and social services? To hide under the toga of state attorneys. In August, when even the socialist territorial barons raised their voice - like Mr Lambán, the president of Aragon - to denounce the critical situation that was going through, what was the Socialist Executive's response? The Government does not pay the Autonomous Communities because the state's lawyers do not leave us. It would seem that this Government is identical to Citizens, defends one thing and the other with the same face. Sometimes, as in this case, it seems that the state's lawyers are all-powerful; in others, however, we have found that they have no decency in unwarranted ceasing them when they are not able to twist their arms. Well, we are loyal in our parliamentary group. That is why we will start by saying that those voices that have been raised among the popular and in Citizens complaining that Mrs Montero has twisted the arm of the state's lawyers by forcing them to issue a customised opinion are uncertain, that is false; as it is also false that the issue of verbal consultations is not customary. It's perfectly legal, and here we have a minister who can testify. The reality is, however, that if Mrs Montero has asked for that written report, it is precisely to dilute the political responsibility of this Government for not taking out the 2019 budgets, for not having foreseen this situation before calling for early elections, and, finally, because today, as Mr Olano has pointed out, there are measures that can be taken and that have not been taken while the Government is in office or, subsequently, if it is finally conformed. What is surprising - and I hope, Mr Montilla, that you will be able to transfer it properly to Mrs Montero -? That the socialist government has put the hood - let me the simile taurino - and people and citizens have entered the rag. And that's why throughout the month of August what we've been listening to is a debate about the famous State Attorney's report, issued on August 27 and properly filtered the next day to El País. And that has eluded the real debate, which is the political responsibility that concerns this socialist executive. This clumsy politics in a party like Citizens, which lacks management experience, is something that goes with it, but in the case of the popular I must tell you that I am deeply disappointed because they have gone through similar situations - and Mr Olano has indicated - in 2016 and later in 2018, and yet they have not gotten to the bottom of the issue. That is why I ask you to accept the addition amendment that we have tabled, because it goes to the core, because it prevents the Socialist Government from adopting any kind of excuse behind the technicians in that report that has been issued, that it exists, that it is real and that it is absolutely in line with the law. I must point out that the statement of reasons for the GNP which they have presented gives real cause for blush with some expressions. Why did they not repeal the 2009 law, as the Member of Compromis has rightly pointed out? I will tell you, because they are not VOX, and because they are not VOX, despite what they indicate in this explanatory statement, when they inherited a Spain in bankruptcy from the Zapatero government, they did not bravely face the solution to the real problem: the current state of autonomy, which is generating an absolute inequality among all Spaniards, since in services as essential as education or health we are seeing that there is an absolute inequality. And because they are not VOX, when they inherited a bankrupt Spain what they did was rescue the banks, governing them with more than 62 billion euros, while allowing an average of 514 daily evictions that gave rise to not a few suicides of middle class Spaniards who were unable to face shame. [[Applauds]] And because they are not VOX precisely do not bravely face the necessary reforms, which is not the updating of the model of the autonomous financing system, but of the territorial model of the State itself. As Mr Moreno pointed out yesterday for the first time after VOX announced it, it is necessary to regain for the State the appropriate competences that guarantee equality for all Spaniards in our nation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, they're not VOX, but we're loyal. I shall conclude now, Madam President. I want to tell you one thing and I tell the whole House: VOX is already here; so I suggest you move on to the acceptance phase because, no matter how much you slander, no matter how much you insult, no matter how much you launch personal attacks, Spokesman, we are with you! We have arrived to stay and from now on nothing will be the same. We have come to go beyond it, to defend what no one has dared so far. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Mr Illueca Ballester has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare for the first time in this rostrum to talk about an issue that is particularly sensitive in my country, the Valencian Community. I'm talking about autonomous financing. Let me begin my intervention by telling a paradox of our constitutional system: what comes immediately into the minds of citizens when they think of the res publica, in the State, in the political community, are not the members of these Chambers, nor are the members of the Government, not even the members of the judiciary, are the autonomous communities. What citizens relate to initially and immediately when they come into contact with the public authorities are the autonomous communities: when they get sick and go to a hospital or send their children to the education system or use social services. The paradox is that this part of the re publica that are the autonomous communities rests on a system of insolidary and unjust financing and that, moreover, it is being undermined by the austerity policies that have been implemented in Spain during the last ten years. An unjust system - it would be idle to insist on it - and it will be enough to mention here the example of my land, the Valencian Community, not by repeated less important; the only territory that has a negative fiscal balance with a per capita income below the average. We could quote others, although it is not necessary. But if we are to have a serious and rigorous debate on autonomous financing, it is not enough to remember that the financing system is unfair, we must add that in Spain there is not only a problem of distribution of resources between the different territories, but there is also a problem of scarcity of resources. The resources are scarce and will be even more so in the future as a result of austerity policies that have ruined our people, which have done much harm to our people. The Budget Stability Act laminates the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities and compromises the future of the welfare state, and compromises it because it prevents financing social rights through public spending. There is still more; if there is a problem of scarcity of resources it is not possible to address the issue of autonomous financing without also, parallel and simultaneously, a tax reform that truly recognizes the principles of equality and progressiveness that our Constitution proclaims. A tax reform that integrates into the tax base of the country those sectors of society that were historically excluded; yes, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain there are people who do not pay taxes, everyone knows. [[Applauds]] And as long as that is the case, neither social rights nor welfare status nor reform of the funding system. I want to say this here today, this afternoon, at this headquarters: any political force - mine too - that claims to defend the reform of the autonomous financing system and that it does not denounce austerity policies that have impoverished our people and unjust and insolidary fiscal policies are being false, is confusing public opinion. [[Applauds]] This is the framework to be extended if a serious and rigorous debate is to be held on autonomous financing. In the meantime, in this context, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party proposing non-legislative proposals, it is necessary to hold the Government responsible for dealing with the transfers of allowances due to the Autonomous Communities. Of course, it is necessary, but to raise this short-term problem by avoiding addressing the structural and substantive issues that frustrate the financing of these public entities, which are the autonomous communities, is opportunistic, irresponsible and deeply demagogic. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I will also make it clear that what you could have done over the past five months to prevent these problems from occurring that are suffocating the autonomous communities is to exercise the right conferred on them by the ballot box and to recognize them by the Constitution, which is certainly not the right to form a government but the right to articulate a parliamentary majority that makes it possible to form a government to form a government to transfer resources to the autonomous communities with the utmost diligence; to form a government to reform the autonomous funding system and to form a government to forever abandon the austerity policies that have done so much harm to our homeland. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Illueca. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pride for me to come up to this rostrum today and I begin with an arduous task: to make them recover their memory, to see if I can pull it from the hemerotheque, gentlemen of the Socialist Group. There are two ways of trying to dismantle the state of autonomy: one of them is directly the constitutional dismantling and the other, more sibilian and subtle, is the financial asphyxiation of the autonomy. I could say that, but no, Mrs Montero, Maria Jesús, has already moved forward in 2016 when she was still the Finance Advisor of the Andalusian Junta and was recriminating the People's Party for the same reason that today the lump is darkened; she was not exactly committed in her criticisms. Perhaps, as Carmen Calvo would say, Mrs. Montero is no longer the then because she is now Minister of Finance. Something has the Socialist Party that makes you different people who can say one thing and justify the opposite according to the side of the board you are on. [[Applauds]] That double standard that reminds us over and over again of the vices of bipartisanism: to do in the government the opposite of what they call for in the opposition. You are a great example yes, but double morale and how measuring rods are used as they please. You are a great example of hypocrisy. Mrs Montero, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group - I am addressing you because Mrs Montero is not here this afternoon - the Government can pay for this update of the deliveries on account, it has several mechanisms for this and you know it. Or has not yours been a prolific government in royal decree-laws even in office? We are talking about almost €7 billion that have to be used to finance the essential public services of millions of Spaniards. You, who stand as adalids of just causes, are turning autonomous financing into a currency of change to try to blackmail the opposition. They don't give a shit about autonomous financing, they don't give a shit about manipulating the CIS, manipulating the Spanish Radio-television, you don't have a cure. You guys are in the worst, the better. As they are unable to secure investment support, they subject citizens to unacceptable blackmail, forcing autonomous communities to cut spending on essential services such as health, education and dependency. What do you want, take us to a limit situation? They take responsibility. Stick as you want with your partners, but stop blackmailing communities and their citizens because the reality is that the worse, the worse. [[Applauds]] But even more, in order to mask that blackmailist attitude of the Government, Mrs Montero could not think of anything other than getting out of the way of a report that did not exist at the time. Mrs Montero lied, told us that there was a report with certain conclusions and not only lied, but she used the good name of the State Advocate and the officials to support her partisan interests. His desire for institutional colonization has no remedy. I would like to tell you that we will vote in favour of this initiative by the People's Group because it is intolerable and unjustifiable to have the financial asphyxiation to which the autonomous communities are being subjected, and because the first part of our amendment has also been incorporated in which we demand that the reform of the current system of autonomous financing, which is complex, not transparent and does not guarantee the equality of the Spaniards, nor an equitable and fair sharing of resources among all autonomous groups, should be urgently addressed. [[Applauds]] Today you too, gentlemen of the PP, hastening and running have brought a proposal for autonomous financing after five years, five years of not having moved a finger. The truth is that PP and PSOE have not known or wanted to address the reform that this country needs in recent years. The truth is that bipartisanism has always blocked a new funding system that will put an end to the inequality between the autonomous communities, allowing some like mine, the Valencian Community, to be underfunded, while watering millions to nationalists. Citizens want the parties that today defend this initiative to commit themselves, as we did in isolation, to end that privilege for some and the aggravation for others that involves a coupon like the Basque, with an arbitrary, insolidary and opaque calculation that even justice has denounced by little transparency. I'm done. In addition, our amendment included rebuttal to the Minister of Finance for subjecting the general interest to partisan interests leading the country to a situation of blockade; for the financial asphyxiation of the autonomous communities that are forced to make cuts in their basic social services; for this reason it is a gross blackmail to obtain an investiture that they are unable to achieve by consensus; and for lying about the existence of a report by the Attorney General's Office that supposedly contained the reasons for this financial blockade, a report that was not available and that emerged ex-professor only when the opposition and the media requested its publication. An amendment that we have finally withdrawn, but do not worry because in the subsequent motion, the question to the minister tomorrow will be included for its more than deserved reprobation for all the reasons set out above. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the facts. From January to the current month of September, the Government has been transferring to each of them the various deliveries to account according to the budget in force in 2019. In total and with extended budgets, the amount transferred will amount to 98 117 million euros, 2136 million more than in 2018, of which, as of today, 64 billion have already been transferred. Second, on July 31, the socialist government transferred the final settlement of 2017 to the autonomous communities, as is usually done every year. It is therefore quite false that the socialist government has blocked the transfer of deliveries to the 2019 account and the 2017 settlement, as demagogically denounces the initiative we are debating today. [[Applauds]] And this has been acknowledged by the proposer himself by withdrawing it and assuming that, in fact, the 2017 settlement has been transferred. Undoubtedly, this non-law proposal is a reflection not only of ignorance, but also, and above all, of bad faith because it says here that those 6 billion had not been transferred, and although it was known from July 31 that that amount had been transferred, they have spent the whole month telling everyone that it had not been transferred. [[shows a document]] Therefore, they are presumed and shown to have very bad faith. The People's Party has done what it has done is to design a thick smokescreen with which they try to hide the reality of the facts, and thus hide the responsibility that derives from their own decisions and that are in many cases the real origin of the consequences that the communities suffer. Every time the Socialist Government has proposed solutions to improve the financial capacity of the autonomous communities and sustain the welfare state, it has always been the People's Party that has blocked any initiative in this regard. And again I refer to the facts, they blocked the new path of stability by preventing more capacity from being available: an additional 25 billion for the autonomous communities. On the other hand, if the autonomous governments complain about the situation that we are experiencing, it is not only because part of the deliveries on account could not be updated, but because, with an extended budget, they cannot enjoy all the investments, all the improvements and transfers that precisely those budgets collected. [[Applauds]] If communities receive less income due to the VAT gap, it is a consequence of an accounting problem that begins the People's Party government and ends and is evidenced by the 2017 liquidation. The failure to approve the budgets also hampered the possible solution proposed by Minister Montero, and her solution, as you well know, has expired. Therefore, we can only call it boldness, even of a certain cynicism, those who are responsible for the origin of the problem, accuse the socialist government of blocking and now pretend to present themselves as the great saviors. Do you really believe that with this background the minister must be reprimanded? The one to blame is you, Citizens. [[Applauds]] Is it possible to introduce the amendment you have tabled? But what world do we live in, please? We are dealing with a very sensitive issue and, therefore, we should have sufficient responsibility and serenity to limit the problem. That is what I will certainly do in my speech. It is true that the 2009 funding model was better than the previous one, but they also knew that it had to be reviewed in 2014 and the People's Party Government did not. He bet on extraordinary financing mechanisms that resulted in a poisoned liquidity injection. I give just one example, more than 84% of the total living debt of the Valencian Community at 31 July comes from these extraordinary mechanisms. By the way, the Leonian interests of Montoro have cost the Valencians the figure of €1800 million, and in the meantime the Community of Madrid saying that it will make tax cuts. How? At the expense of the resources of all of Spain? But, please, what are you talking about? That's all right. [[Applauds]] This situation is paradoxical. That being said, with the need to really narrow the problem down in its terms, the Socialists are very aware of the treasury difficulties that the autonomous governments could have in the last days of the year if, at the moment, the advances had not been updated. Some advances that I want to quantify in some way, representing 4.5% of total deliveries on account. I therefore conclude that this situation will require a solution that the Government has already committed itself to, but that is, within the existing legal framework, because they will agree that the existing legal framework must be respected. Thus, we have tabled an amendment to limit the problem and send a message of tranquillity to the citizens and to the autonomous communities, so that they have the certainty and certainty that the measures to overcome the difficulties will be found. And of course, if anyone here has participated in an institutional blockade, they are those who accuse the government: the People's Party and Citizens' Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Blanquer. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for positions by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. Today the PP presents a non-legislative proposal on autonomous financing. We, as the Basque Country, are not directly affected by this issue and, as you know, our parliamentary group does not usually intervene in debates on the autonomous financing of the common system communities for strict institutional respect. Therefore, without wishing to interfere in this matter, we will do a little reflection, because we understand that it depends on the economic resources of the financing received by the autonomous communities to exercise their competences, which, moreover, are the ones closest to the citizenry: health, social services, education, etc. This is a non-law proposal somewhat - if I may say so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group - surprising, because the Autonomic Financing Act of 2009 provided for a five-year review, a revision that touched on in 2014 and that was not carried out when it was curiously the People's Party that ruled with an absolute majority, nor did they address it during part of the XI Legislature, in which you were also in government. The same should be said of the VAT settlement which they were able to settle and neither did they. This is a financing reform which, moreover, has been flagged and demanded not only by the Group of the European People's Party but also by the Socialist Group because it is essential, but which has then always been postponed in time by a genuine absence of political will in the face of a problem that has been dragging on for years. It is therefore clear that there is a need to review and adapt the system of financing for the Autonomous Communities of the Common System so that they can have sufficient funds to implement their competences and provide them with stability, and that we are faced with a highly decentralized system of expenditure but not so much revenue and with little fiscal co-responsibility. The non-legislative proposal that we are presented today is to address and resolve a problem of immediate liquidity, of immediate financing: the 25 billion adjustment of VAT and the update of deliveries on account of 2019 - which, having taken them into account in their budgets, would oblige some autonomous communities to a budgetary adjustment - and the liquidation of 2017, but it must be said that this has already been done, so it does not take place and of course in that proposal there is a quite serious error, in our opinion. This is a problem that, as we have already been saying, originates in the current funding system, which has expired since 2014, and is also the result of not having achieved budget approval for 2019 and now of not having a government. In short, it is a difficult problem to solve, because with extended budgets it is not possible to update the deliveries on account, because a Government in office cannot approve the General Budgets of the State and, therefore, it is not possible to make such updates or advances on behalf of the Autonomous Communities, since there is no revenue update available, and, in addition, because there is a report from the Law of the State that concludes that a Government in office has limited its activity to the ordinary discharge of affairs, a concept that the Supreme Court understands prevents it from carrying out acts that condition, compromise or prevent policies to be developed by the new Government. In short, an immediate problem which needs to be resolved but which also highlights the much-needed reform of the financing system for the Autonomous Communities of the common system in order to address the structural problems of the system, as otherwise it is working to establish patches of problems that will arise. As I have already said, this does not seem possible without government agreements, with government in office and with new elections in the near future, and it is that somehow it seems that this problem - like so many others - will have to wait. Having said that, and in the face of the instability in which we find ourselves - in the face of the uncertainty, as I have said, whether or not there will be a Government dealing with this issue in a serious and immediate way - it is necessary that, in the short term, other formulas be studied in order to settle these accounts and for the autonomous communities to be able to exercise their powers effectively. That is why, and given, as I have already said, that this is an issue that does not directly affect us but which we believe must be addressed on the basis of collective responsibility, we will abstain in the interests of finding an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I would like to begin my first parliamentary intervention in this legislature by recalling that in Spain there are political prisoners and prisoners who have been in pre-trial detention for months because of the mere fact of putting the ballots in order for the citizens of Catalonia to decide their future, and this should give them great shame. [[applause]] That is why we say loud and clear: Libertat political prisoners; Libertat political prisoners! In view of this GNP presented by the PP, we want to say that the Spanish government in office is experiencing a situation of interinity resulting from the holding of an early election and the failure of Pedro Sánchez's investiture last July. In this interim situation, the Government clearly fails to fulfil its financial obligations to the Autonomous Communities. During these months, the Government has contributed €9 billion corresponding to autonomy, which is held irregularly and does not want to transfer. Of these 9 billion, 1300 correspond to the Generalitat de Catalunya, of which 874 correspond to the improvement in tax collection this year and therefore the citizens of Catalonia have already paid them. It is curious that the socialist government does so with Minister Montero at the head of the ministry, when in 2017, being a finance adviser to the Government of Andalusia, demanded the then Minister Montoro to correct the smallest increase in collection due to the change in the management system. You see: as much riding, as much riding, Montoro as Montero. Both the PP and the PSOE mounts, as well as the PSOE when it comes to not transferring to the Generalitat of Catalonia those resources which by law correspond to it. We are told that the Government is in office and that it cannot transfer the resources that are from the Generalitat because they strictly comply with logic. They are shielded in a ghost report of the State Attorney General who did not exist for many days. But, being in office, they do ask by letter to the Generalitat that it cut in public health or, for example, being in office, buy arms worth 2300 million euros How cynical! And more so when it comes from a government that proclaims itself socialist. These non-transferred resources add to the Generalitat's persistent fiscal deficit, which varies between EUR 11 000 and EUR 16 billion, which year after year makes the situation unsustainable and more when it comes to the administrations closest to the citizens and providing essential services. For all this, we demand the Minister of Finance to order the transfer of the increased resources of the funding advances of this year 2019 that correspond to the Generalitat by organic law, that they have already collected and that they hold irregularly. And we denounce the cynicism of the PP by presenting this GNP, when during his term they drowned autonomous communities and municipalities. I'm done, President. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u91	Mr. Margall...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u92	[[Continue to intervene in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u93	Mr. Margall, please... [[Mr. Margall Sastre finishes his speech.-Applause]] Thank you very much. For the sole purpose of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask the proposing group. Mr De Olano, do you accept any amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u94	We accept the amendment of the Canary Coalition, as I said from the rostrum, and we will leave to the services of the House the transactional that we have negotiated with Podemos and Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE HARMONIZATION OF CONTENTS AND PAYMENTS IN EBAU TESTS [[EVALUATION OF BACHILLERATO FOR ACCESS TO UNIVERSITY]] [[File number 162/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u96	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on the harmonization of contents and fees to be paid in the baccalaureate assessment tests for access to university. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u97	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to bring before this House the first initiative presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in this parliamentary term. Since it could not be otherwise, the initiative we bring is about education, because for Citizens education is the social policy of the future and today more than ever needs changes and consensus and does not vacate or negotiate tactics, as has been done for many years. [[Applauds]] We have a proposal on an issue that is absolutely common sense. That examinations, fees and correction processes of the selectivity exam are common to all students throughout Spain is something anyone understands. It is a question of Perogrullo that all students in this country have the same options to choose their future under the same conditions. It's an obvious question. [[Applauds]] As I say, it is absolutely a question of Perogrullo, but also of justice. Moreover, it is a claim that is not only ours. Our parliamentary group brought it here for the first time in 2017, but the parents claim it, the students and many people in society claim it. And I see myself defending something here that is so obvious and so normal because neither the lords of the PSOE nor the lords of the PP wanted to solve it all these years. Why have we chosen this initiative, very normal, very common sense, to inaugurate the legislature? Why have we chosen an initiative on selectivity and harmonisation of rates? Because this initiative represents two issues that we carry in DNA as political formation: firstly, the defence of the equality of all Spaniards, regardless of the territory where they live, and secondly, the vision that education is the policy of the future, a very important policy that cannot be used as a bargaining tool and that cannot be given to nationalists. [[applause]] I'm going to stop a little bit on these two issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens were born in Catalonia to fight against the privileges of nationalism and to fight against the abandonment of functions that bipartisanism did for many years in the face of these privileges. In Citizens we believe - and we really believe it - that the Spaniards are the same, regardless of the territory where we live. We believe that, and that is why we have two basic principles to defend: freedom and equality. Freedom without equality is not freedom and equality without freedom is not equality either. Territorial inequality is a profound attack on freedom, an attack on freedom and very profound equality. As in Citizens we believe that the Spaniards are equal in rights and duties, regardless of the territory where we live, we have immense respect for equality and freedom, as I said, a respect that, unfortunately - I have to say with great regret - bipartisanism has been losing during these years. [[Applauds]] I ask you when, gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as Vargas Llosa would say, Peru was screwed. I don't know; I don't know if Peru started to fuck in the 1990s, when Felipe González agreed with Convergence and the PNV to stay in the Moncloa; I don't know if it was later, when Aznar closed the Covenant of the Majestic, or I don't know if it was when Zapatero relied on the Republican Left and the PNV to get the government. [[Applauds]] What I do know is that in each of these negotiations both the People's Party and the Socialist Party were giving in little by little; but it is that already, in the last parliamentary term, Mr Sánchez - the PSOE - has given an acceleration and has definitively renounced the defense of equality among all Spaniards by buying the ideological scrap of nationalism that the rights and duties belong to the territories and not to individuals. No, Mr Sánchez; no, nationalists: rights belong to individuals, also the right to enrol in university and to choose the future they want on equal terms. That's why we bring this initiative. [[Applauds]] The second reason - as I tell you - is that for us educational policies have to be the center and cannot be a currency of change. Because it is true that in all the negotiations that I have mentioned the PSOE has gradually given way to education. They did so with the tripartite with Esquerra Republicana; they did so in Valencia with Compromís, and the People's Party, unfortunately, has also been making divestitures with a lot of quail. Because I'm going to tell you one thing: I would have liked Mr. Married to have been here, because yesterday I read a tweet that, honestly, could have been mine; I had each and every one of the issues that we've been bringing here from Citizens: the High Educational Inspectorate, the unique EBAU..., those issues that initially to you, gentlemen of the PP, did not convince you. I am glad that they subscribe to many of the questions that we have brought and that we have opened the taboo, but I do want to recall some things: where it was established that the subject of the revision of the textbooks, of which so much has been talked about, was at the LOCE; the Minister of Education who most decentralized education in this country was Rajoy; who generated an educational syndicate by removing or jamming the curricular standards was Wert, and who kept the report of the High Educational Inspectorate initially in a box - then it was Celaá - was the Minister Méndez de Vigo. [[Applauds]] So I believe that, indeed, the issue we are trying to address is one that we are dealing with, and that is why it is normal for more and more political forces to support them. Because it is not normal for the children of Castile and León to be less likely than the children of other autonomous communities to choose, for example, the medical career; and it is not normal for the parents of Aragon to have to pay twice as many fees as the parents of Castile-La Mancha for their children to take a similar examination. And the approach to an equal correction system is such a normal approach that we all have to agree that curricular standards have to be homogeneous for all of Spain. Well, everyone but Mrs. Celaá, who wants to take them off. Look at you, there's an educational union in this country and we have to fix it. I propose one thing: let's not do it as politicians, because as politicians we have lost all credibility; let's do it as parents, let's do it as teachers, let's do it as teachers, let's do it as students too, and if you look at education that way you will realize that this initiative we bring can only be supported.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u98	Mrs. Martin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u99	If you do not think as Members, but as good people, I am sure you will support the initiative we are bringing today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mrs González Taño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On the maps that I had in my school Canarias was in the Mediterranean with a strip drawn around. Most of the canary boys and girls grew up thinking we were there surrounded by a fence. At the age of seventeen or eighteen, students from the Canary Islands have to leave six of the eight islands to live on another island in order to study. This is a geographical reality, but we also have a different way of speaking, we have a different culture and obviously we have historical roots different from those of the Peninsula, and those realities have to be contemplated by the educational system, because what you claim with this initiative, as with many others - and you have recognized it here - is to centralize the Spanish educational system by forgetting all those differentiated realities. The worst is that they start from a wrong base. There are no substantial differences in EBAU in the different autonomous communities. We do not say that; it is said by the Conference of Rectors and Rectors of Spanish Universities. Therefore, what they are trying to do is to play electorally with the Spanish boys and girls at a time that is very difficult for them. That's very sad and in that we can't take a step back. We propose that the Ministry of Education study this issue and, if it has to make any adjustments to the EBAU, that it propose and do so. But, look, classifying the institutes by the EBAU grade of their students without taking into account the socio-economic circumstances of their families and the area in which they reside is a real nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and of the other political parties, if we really want to make progress in Spain in the field of education, if we really want to pay attention to what teachers and teachers from all over Spain are asking us to do, let us make a consensus education law that lasts a decade. Then we will begin to advance in education in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u102	Thank you, Mrs. González. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Some of us, who are already a few years old, remember when we were studying. I knew where the Land of Fields was, but I didn't know where the Vall d'Albaida, the Safor, the Maestrat or the Navy was. I knew all the tributaries of the Tajo and the Duero, but I did not know the Vinalopó or the Xúquer, which passes half a kilometre from my house. I knew where the Toledo Mountains were, but I didn't know where l'Aitana or the Penyagolosa was. That's why I don't think the Citizens Party wants to go back to this. Taking a tweet from a journalist friend, Xavier Aliaga, I will say that I very much agree with the Citizens' proposal that there be equal content. That is why I agree that in Madrid, Valladolid, Badajoz or Cáceres, the Crown of Aragon, the Nova Planta Decree, the Valencians, the Segle d'Or, Ausiàs March, Joan Fuster, Mercè Rodoreda are also being studied. I agree that notions of Basque, Catalan, Valencian are given. That would be to do things well done; the other thing, to return to the Spanish nationalism that permeated the childhood of many of us. I'm done. Instead of publishing or having this desire to publish the notes by educational establishments without taking into account the differences that often exist between public educational establishments, where many people with greater educational needs are served than in other centres, why not publish the notes of the centres later, when the selector has been reached? That would be much fairer and then we would see if some schools that have to compete are inflated or not inflated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. We share with the spokesperson for Citizens the fact that when the student of the whole of Spain wants to go to the university in the whole of Spain it is logical that they start from an equal basis to compete on equal terms. And that is where we leave the debate, in the common sense, as the spokesman himself said. From there, if what is intended to be done is a debate on competences, logically, we will be in another position. We defend the competence of the communities themselves, we understand that the well-applied educational competences are positive, but we also understand that the biggest enemies of the Spanish competition regime are those who use the competences in a biased way, that is, those who, for example, use their competence to introduce in the textbooks institutional realities different from those that there are, for example, the Basque Nationalist Party - that is to attack the competences using the competition - or to unite the votes to a party as can be EH Bildu to change the narrative, in this case, of the terrorist band ETA. That is to use skills to run counter to skills and, therefore, is not a competence problem but a problem in the use of skills. We believe that Spain is a country that needs competences in the autonomous communities - of course, in the Foral Community of Navarre - but always from institutional loyalty, and all those who want to end Spain logically use them to go against the country itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u106	Thank you, Mr. García. Mrs González Guinda has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u107	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say to Citizens - who are indeed a young party - that of course we were aware that this problem had to be resolved, but it was you who recently supported the People's Party in criminalizing the application of a single test rule at the end of the baccalaureate. I remind you that already in 2002 the Quality Law contained the unique proof, which the Socialist Party dropped. Having said that, gentlemen of Citizens, I was surprised to see that in your proposal at no time would the EBAU appear as a unique test. Now I get it. Our amendment goes in that direction, we continue to bet on the single test; I hope that you too will accept this amendment. I would also like to say that it seems that you are addressing us as if we were ruling. Yes, it seems that the Government, the non-government or the paralysis of the non-government has confused them about who to look at when dealing with this problem. The problem exists; the problem is on the street; it is in all the complaints that there have been about the different tests in the different autonomous communities, the inequality that has occurred in such tests. More than 30 000 student signatures, proposals from the autonomous communities proposing the introduction of a single test, multiple complaints about the different degree of difficulty and, above all, I am addressing the government, I am addressing the Socialist Party. The Minister has made these statements this summer: EBAU is working very well over the past few years. This issue is always raised at these times because there is an examination that someone considers to have a greater degree of difficulty. Among teachers who teach the same subject in a center also happens, it is part of human nature. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, don't you think that you are denouncing our students, that you are putting them as capricious as it may seem that you take a hoax when something doesn't come out the way they want? They are adult people, who have been preparing with tenacity and effort during their high school and, especially in the last year, have given themselves the best to get the best grade, the one that opens the doors to their professional future. I have to say that in the educational field too I have heard voices about socio-economic factors which are acting as determining factors in the EBAU. Well, Castile and León - you have already named it -, having the best indices in the external PISA evaluation system -525, above the national average and the OECD average - it is surprising that it occupies the fourteenth place in the EBAU tests. Well, what socio-economic factors are there in this? I don't see them. What socio-economic factors are there in which the standards in the subject of History in some communities are 80 versus 30? Frankly, the key factor is inequality; the inequality that exists in the test in the different territories and that only deepens in the territorial fracture, in the creation of inequality among the Spaniards, something in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, are experts. In a single district context admission to our universities follows a competitive competition process. To the extent that such access is carried out with different evidence, with different structure, with different blocks, with different contents, with different correction criteria, with different rates, there is a great distortion of equity. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, wake up and set the negotiating tables in motion. We are aware of the great legislative difficulties that this issue may have, so we propose to bring it to the State Pact for Education, a state pact from which I remind you that you have risen demanding 5% investment in GDP. We then thought it was more of a partisan argument to raise the People's Party of the Government. So now you wake up because you have to reach pacts and agreements, negotiate on this issue and how to legislate it because it is a matter of equity. The fairness of our students' access to university must be kept in mind and you are late or late - it seems early or late - it will be the citizens, these students and their families who will take you out of the lethargy, who will take the president of the Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u109	Madam President, good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Martín, good afternoon to you in particular, who has brought this initiative here on behalf of your group. The representative of the Canary Islands Coalition and others have also said this: an absolutely uniforming speech. You are looking with this initiative to centralize all competencies. You, Mrs Martín and your parliamentary group, and I and my parliamentary group, the Basque Group in Congress, represent radically opposed, antagonistic political projects. Therefore, as you will understand, we have no chance of reaching any agreement in this area and our vote will be against the initiative you are proposing. And it will be against the initiative that you propose, basically, by competences, competences and competences. We will stand on the wall in front of any initiative that is presented in this Congress or in any other House that involves a setback or interference in the Basque competition. We will defend the Basque self-government to an extreme and this initiative would be one more step, like so many others that have recently been taking, to curtail, to erode the competition field. Skills, I was telling you, in the first place. The entire Basque education system has been developed according to the competences set out in the Statute of Gernika, in article 16, which assigns us exclusive competences in the field of education in development of what is set out in the first additional provision of the Constitution. Do you call for the failure to comply with the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying historical territories, Mrs Martín? Is that what you're calling for with your initiative? [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures]] Because it looks like it's what he's doing. Secondly, you use the term harmonisation in your initiative and what you are trying to do is to standardise. Harmonizing is not at all standardizing. You want to go back to the path on which everyone, everyone everywhere in the same uniform and that is a path to which the Basque Group in Congress, to which the PNV refuses to return. Because we, when we look back, the only path we see is the one that is never to be stepped back into the realm of centralization. Learn from the European level. If you want to harmonize, look at the Bologna process; a process used to make a single area of higher education in Europe, where some states were allowed to take on some common areas that would give coherence to the entire European university system, but at the same time adapted to the uniqueness and characteristics of the different states. In Europe there are university systems within the same state, as is the case with Scotland, England or Wales within the UK, which have different university systems and are not discriminatory. They are not discriminatory at all, but they bring more wealth. Therefore, if you want to harmonize, take that as a reference. You, Mrs Martín, asked a question to the previous government, to the People's Party government, in 2018 on this issue of the EBAU, and what the government was saying to you was: It should be noted that there are autonomous communities where the results are excellent, because they exceed 95% of the approved ones, and what needs to be done - the Spanish government replied, then in the hands of the People's Party - is to congratulate the education system of these autonomous communities. And that's what we'd have to do. What matters is how skills are managed. We are responsible for the results that derive from the management of our competences. We decide what we allocate resources to and what we prioritize when we make public investment and decide the destination of public spending, and depending on that, we are responsible for the results that are obtained.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u110	Mrs. Gorospe, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u111	Yes, one second, Madam President. What needs to be done is to congratulate the person who does it well, see what the results are, learn from others and be able to apply in other places what can be adapted respecting the uniqueness of the sites. And as for the fees, they're not for profit, they're for cost. What are you going to do? Is there another proposal to standardise, for example, the costs of renting spaces where tests are carried out? Be consistent. What you want is weasel, you want to make noise with Euskadi in this case, with Catalonia to take votes in other caladeros because today has been the exit gun of the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, I would like to recall that, while we are discussing education, there are thousands of students mobilized and organized in the streets to defend a quality public university and for popular classes. [[Applauds]] Some of them, by the way, are under judicial proceedings, such as the case of La Pública a Judici, in which some thirty students face up to four years in prison. You're not suns. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, the truth is that we are no longer surprised at anything about you. Once again they are trying to make up an attempt at re-centralization and elitistization. His proposal does not only affect university access tests; his proposal seeks to change the entire education system. You pretend to end Catalan, Basque, Galician education, and for that you create problems where there are none and make us believe that you care about students' concerns. Instead of taking as an example models like the Catalan school, which is an inclusive and inclusive model, you try to make it disappear. [[rumors]] They're testing different laws and proposals, let's see if any slips. This leads us to think that it can be for two reasons. The first, that you do not defend inclusion and integration; the second, that gives you fear that we will decide from our land how we should educate ourselves or perhaps both at the same time. The initiative you are proposing is clearly against integration; it is an initiative that seeks to segregate students. They have created the ideal text to isolate families with a lower socio-economic level. You present us with the brilliant idea of publishing test results by centers and use transparency as an excuse for it, but what you don't explain are the results that this would really cause and the truth is that it would cause the elitization of the educational system: centers with students of a lower socio-economic level, with worse academic results; centers of students with a higher socio-economic level, with higher academic results. What, then, will they propose, less funding for the more complex centres that would have worse academic results? There would be favourable conditions for the concerted and the private to the detriment of the public and the options for students with less economic resources to achieve their academic goals and to aspire to university access would be severely reduced; that is, more privileges would be given to those who are more privileged and the less privileged would be isolated, something typical of a liberal group such as theirs. In addition, they intend to take away our competences in education. We may be very bold, but we assume that content in mathematics or biology doesn't concern you so much. We imagine that what worries you is that we study our language, our history and our geography. If what concerns them is that the study of our language, our history and our geography believes more independenceists, then I propose that they stop being ridiculous because to defend the right to self-determination we only have to be democrat. If what they really wanted to do today was a debate about the model of university access tests, then I encourage them to really discuss it; I'm sure it will be interesting to talk about how we should do a less memoristic exam or whether we should re-enact philosophy. Let us remind you that this debate should not take place in this Congress, but in the parliaments to which it belongs; in the case of the Catalan countries, in the Catalan parliament, in the whaler and in the Valencian. If you want to discuss something in Congress, I remind you that the Spanish State must transfer the competences of the university scholarships; it is as simple as forcing the ladies of the PSOE to obey the 2001 Constitutional Court ruling. I say that because, when we talk about student subjects, this is sometimes forgotten. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. The vote of the VOX Group on this GNP must be negative. First of all, and giving good thought to the intentions of the Citizens' Group, because the current GNP is a clear proof that you, like so many others, are out of reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, this GNP shows that you are committed to persevering in error. It is clear that we have a problem, and it is a serious problem, as far as education is concerned, and especially in the evaluation of bachelor's degree for university access and its harmonization, but that is nothing more than the tip of the iceberg, because what we really have is seventeen autonomous communities that have made education an instrument for their political projects and not a tool that aims to enrich the intellectual formation of our children by equipping them with the elements necessary to develop a critical capacity to develop themselves throughout the world. You mention in your proposal to open a negotiation process at the Sectoral Conference on Education. But if that is an agency that has closed down its work, as has also been closed down by the High Inspection of the State, the National Institute for Educational Assessment and the State School Council, and not precisely because of its workers or its officials, but because the various governments of both colours, in recent years, have, with their silence, liquidated precisely the task they were required to do: to ensure quality education that is in turn an element of national cohesion. Do you really believe that by urging the autonomous communities you will be able to solve the problem? Do you think that the Generality of Catalonia, for example, will do what you propose? Is it not yet obvious that there are autonomous communities in rebellion that rule behind their backs as contemplated in our Constitution when not in clear contempt? We have just heard the representatives of ERC, Mr Margall, in clear contempt of this House, speak of non-existent political prisoners. There is no republic and there are no political prisoners, Mr Margall. [[Applauds]] Then, with a little more humor, we've heard about the system's integrative model in Catalonia, let's just say it's for us to laugh. I am sure you know that the Autonomous Communities have published 450 different regulations on textbooks only in the last three years. Is it not clear that in Catalonia, Galicia, the Basque Country, Balearic Islands, among others, children cannot learn the respective subjects in Spanish, which is our official language? If that is precisely where the first inequalities between our children are born! That is why this GNP is born dead, because the formulas it proposes are wrong and do not change anything except the headline, which is probably what they are looking for, but nothing more. If we really want to guarantee an education of opportunities that everyone can access on equal terms, if you really want to prevent parents from necessarily being forced to resort, and not by their own will or whim, to private school, to the elite centers that they said at ERC, to ensure that their children learn the history of Spain, if that is what moves them, then join us and propose to reverse the state of autonomy to guarantee the equality and freedom of all Spaniards. Let them abandon their efforts to perpetuate a model that has failed, a model that has become the main obstacle to the well-being of the Spaniards, and let them stop feeding the welfare state of the politicians, where the regeneraters and those who have always devoted themselves to increasing the number of councils, without any benefit to the Spaniards, as soon as they accede to a government of an autonomous community. And if they're afraid to join our goal of reversing the model, it won't be that they call them ultras, at least ask for the return of the education competition, so the Spanish on foot will have more opportunities. The opposite is to trap the solitaire and deceive the Spaniards, because one cannot pretend to improve education and guarantee its access on equal terms and at the same time continue to swell and maintain the same model that precisely generates these inequalities, because that failed model is precisely the state of autonomy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Normally, Mrs Martín Llaguno, the teachers we start the course in a different way, and I also want to start this legislature in a different way, I'm going to start with a guess. Look, let's see if you know who I'm talking about when I describe this modus operandi: you choose a fact that is likely to be a conflict, if it has to do with the territorial confrontation, better; you write a proposal quickly and unscrupulously in the name of the monopoly of freedom; if you can present yourself to a demonstration even though pacts with those who want to ban it, better too, you will have a good headline, but the rest will have a problem where before it did not exist. Does that ring a bell? There are already those who call this technique'mountain', lately to me it is looking much more like the typical broken plug that, by connecting anything, sparks and fires everything around it. [[applause]] If we add to this we talk about education and a little bit of Catalonia, we already have the classic favorite cocktail of Citizens. And we start the course the same way we finish it. You often accuse the independenceists of being the hamster that continually turns around, but it is that you are the wheel that needs the hamster to keep turning and it is that you need each other. [[Applauds]] We have seen, for example, Mr Rivera this weekend missing the black days of 6 and 7 September in the Parliament of Catalonia. As a Catalan, I felt ashamed of what happened in my parliament, but it seems that Mr Rivera felt nostalgic about those sad days and went there to remember them. So we from the United Nations can vote against this non-law proposal for three fundamental reasons. First reason: if you really want to talk about this topic, we should start by analysing whether the EBAU model is the best model our educational system needs. It is important to analyze the process of evaluation and selection, but from a rigorous position, not from the voidness of the'mountapolism' that you bring us. [[Applauds]] With these tests, we fall into the real danger of the education system of the Spanish State, which is to teach students to pass exams and not teach students to learn from the life that awaits them. That is what we should be looking at and trying to improve, how students can access the studies they want to study and not invent supposed territorial inequalities, which are all they do is try to strengthen the political framework that you have been working on for the past five years, which is territorial confrontation, a confrontation that is no longer a democratic issue or a question of recognition, but is also directly affecting the pockets of citizens. Secondly, you are anxious, and it has already been said here, to re-centralise educational skills. They want a homogeneous Spain in black and white and where plurality is completely eliminated and, moreover, you do it in the worst of forms, at least your brothers and sisters of the far right say it openly, they want to charge themselves with the state of autonomy, they are pre-constitutional and come here and recognize it. You defend the same thing, you defend the same thesis as Mr Abascal, but you do it with subterfuges because, in the background, you are ashamed of what you defend because you know it is bad for Spain. Be honest and let people know what you vote for, let people know that in education when you vote orange, as has happened in Andalusia or Madrid, you also vote for VOX. And today we have seen here, Mrs. Martín Llaguno, the Oxymoron that is Citizens. In the same sentence you said that all Spaniards are the same and next to them there are some that are ideological junk. That's what you said today in that rostrum. And I'm done. The third reason why we will vote against is that you are returning, as is already the tradition in Citizens, to use a theme of media showcase that disguises the real problem of the education system. Instead of attacking socio-economic inequalities, which also generate educational differences, as recognised by the CRUE - you pay attention at least to the directors -, what they do is point out territorial differences. So, Mrs. Martín Llaguno, let him look at you, ask yourself what's going on with you and where you're going with a confrontation project. People want solutions to their problems and not problems to their solutions. Citizenship is increasingly moving away from the policy of confrontation by confrontation, from crispation by crispation and confrontation by confrontation, which is what Citizens and Mr Rivera propose today. Today there are fellow citizens who have given a door to formation probably because they do not share that strategy of crispar and it is that you have gone from being a party that was born under the parameters of social democracy and centered liberalism...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u118	Mr. Mena, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u119	I'm done, President. ... and have ended up becoming the scaffolding of the most corrupt of the People's Party and the main gateway to the institutions of the far right. Help us, Mrs Martín Llaguno, to put solutions to the real problems of the education system and stop using education as a political weapon of confrontation in a Spain that needs bridges of dialogue and not walls of confrontation. And, comrades of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u120	Mr. Mena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u121	I'm done, President. Comrades of the Socialist Party, let us work for a government of progress because, if not, this is what Spain has left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u122	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u123	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Martín, we meet again in this legislature with the continuous line of Citizens, which is summed up in a number of characteristics: more re-centralisation, very little rigour, a mixture of unrelated educational concepts, great ignorance of the functioning of the education system and a great novelty, because today we are being debated the evaluation of the centers and the famous educational rankings. For I am already telling you that we are good people and we are going to vote against your initiative. [[Applauds]] What you call freedom we call recentralisation, which is what this initiative sums up on all sides. I would ask you to work with a little more rigorously the initiatives that you bring here, because comparing PISA evaluations, which measure competences at the age of fifteen, with tests of access to the university, the EBAU, which evaluate contents and access to the university at the age of eighteen, demonstrates the rigour with which Citizens work and present their parliamentary initiatives. You speak of inequality in the territory and I would ask you to investigate a little beyond the data you present, because we are used to using the data in your favor, to create opinion and to show an educational unreality. What they do is create their own reality, which does not coincide with the reality of the whole Spanish educational system. It is not clear to us whether what they are proposing is a single EBAU, as they have been systematically repeating in recent months, something which also coincides - it has already made clear to us - with what the People's Party is asking for. They have many coincidences - we already knew it - with the People's Party and we do not know whether they defend that or return to the invalid, as we have read today in the media, or whether they defend the same thing as the Education Advisor of Castile and León, a single test throughout the Spanish territory at the same time. All that - you know because they have already told you - is to return to a pre-statutory and, of course, pre-competitive model, Your Honor. We can understand that you intend to improve the system, of course, but to make it clear that every autonomous community does what it wants it to do is a tremendous irresponsibility and does not obey reality, Your Honor, because, among other things, you and your governing partners in many autonomous communities need to know that it was the People's Party that launched the current model we have of EBAU. By the way, much cynicism has the People's Party now when it throws balls away and seems to blame the Socialist Party for the current model that exists when we all know it was the PP and that it was also very difficult to achieve a consensus between the autonomous communities and the universities, an order that has been renewed and that establishes common criteria for the type of tests, the maximum times for carrying them out and the review process. [[applause]] Thus, there are already harmonised criteria across the State. We remind you at the same time that the competences in education fall within the autonomous communities and that in the case of EBAU they are shared with universities, which you should also know that they have autonomy. What I would like to know is whether what you are questioning is the professionalism of teachers in the universities themselves when evaluating students. I don't want to think they're questioning you. Or do they claim that it is a single teacher throughout Spain who evaluates EBAU's tests? That would be a nonsense, but, as they want it all the same, they may claim the barbarity of a single teacher correcting all the evidence to avoid the subjectivity of teachers. They suggest that Castile and León is the autonomous community with the most difficult tests, and I say that if the competences in education are of the autonomous communities and universities have autonomy, I think that it has been confused with Parliament by bringing this debate here, because if there is a problem of inequality in Castile and León it will be normal for Castile and León to fix it, to approach it and to make a test more adapted to the reality of their students and, as you say, not to be disadvantaged. Look, you are ruling in Castile and León, so you have the solution in your hands: change the test, adjust the agendas in that autonomous community, which for that you have competences. I return to another of the points raised in the debate, also bearing in mind that you are ruling in Castile and León. They say that there is a price difference in tuition fees, which we do not know very well whether it refers to the EBAU tuition fee or to university tuition fees. Well, it also happens that Castilla y León is the third autonomous community with the highest rates in Spain, so if you want to be fair be it also with the students of Castilla y León doing everything possible to lower the rates and have equal opportunities to access the university, because it is also a fair economic access. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u124	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u125	To conclude, we will not accept evaluation either, the rankings of centres, because of course this would mean the creation of ghetto centres and much more segregation, i.e. the Madrid Community model, which we reject entirely. So, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you try to repeat and repeat the same thing, the speech of re-centralisation, of inequalities in the territory, is not going to become a reality, because it is not, and of course the Socialist Party, this group, is not going to contribute to that speech that you claim and that is to use...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u126	Mrs. Martinez Seijo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u127	I'm done. ...education to create fracture, sectarianism and hatred. In that, of course, they will not count on this group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín, I ask you whether you accept any of the amendments tabled and I give you the floor just for this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u129	We're negotiating.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u131	We turn to the next item on the agenda, concerning the accountability of the Permanent Chamber of Congress of Deputies of the XII Legislature to the Chamber of the XIII Legislature. This item will be submitted for adoption by the House at the end of this sitting. REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE YEAR 2018, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION: - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u132	We then move on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the 2018 financial year, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I give the floor to the first secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u133	Thank you, President. Report on compliance with the Congress of Deputies' budget for the 2018 financial year. In accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy enshrined in article 72.1 of the Constitution, pursuant to article 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2018 is presented to the plenary, the general lines of which are set out below: The fiscal year of the Congress of Deputies for 2018 began in application of article 134.4 of the Constitution under a situation of extension of the General Budgets of the State for 2017. The Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting of 19 September 2017, approved the draft budget of the House for 2018, which was integrated into the General Budgets of the State for that year, approved by Law 6/2018 of 3 July, for an overall amount of 86,983 110 euros, which represents 0.03% of the General Budgets of the State. Of the total amount of appropriations initially authorised, those actually committed amounted to EUR 78 275 716.69, representing an implementation of 89.99 % of the budget initially approved, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 8 707 393.31, representing 10.01 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the financial year 2018, EUR 71 751 632.74 were paid during the same obligations and payments of EUR 6 539 445.96 were made during 2019, according to the following breakdown. Payments outstanding at 31 December 2018 arising from obligations for the financial year and made between 1 January and 31 March 2019, EUR 6 539 445,96. Cash balance at the end of the 2018 financial year, EUR 15 400,88. In addition, several credit transfers approved by the Bureau of the House at its meeting of 11 December 2018 for a total amount of EUR 465 000 have been requested during the 2018 financial year. Congress Hall of Deputies, September 10, 2019.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary first. There are no requests for a word.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u135	We now turn to the agenda item on proposals for the establishment of committees. All proposals for the establishment of commissions under this agenda item will be discussed jointly, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, as follows: Standing Committee on Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the Toledo Pact; Standing Committee on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility; Standing Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents; Standing Committee on the Audit of Democratic Quality, Anti-Corruption and Institutional and Legal Reforms; Standing Committee on Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence; Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its Societies; Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem; and Joint Commission for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Spanish Strategy for the Achievement of Sustainable Development Goals. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simono has the floor on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we currently have twenty-eight standing committees in Congress. It seems to our group more than enough and perhaps even excessive, but you must think few because today you are proposing to set up eight new committees. That is to say, while in the Executive we currently have eighteen seats in the Council of Ministers, including the President of the Government, you want us to have nothing less than thirty-six committees in the Legislature, twice as many committees as the Government has. I imagine that more than one of those here will appeal to the idea that these commissions are important for controlling the work of the government, but that would be tantamount to taking the Spaniards for fools. The Spaniards are not fools and no one is going to believe that with a group of thirty-six commissions in the current circumstances better control work will be done. On the contrary, so much Commission gets precisely that the control of the Executive is difficult, because it disperses the effort of the Legislative Power and, moreover - here probably is the key - the expenditure increases. If, then, these new eight commissions do not guarantee greater control over the Government and if we also take into account that the issues to be dealt with are already covered by the existing commissions, one wonders who wins with this. Cui prodest, the investigators say. Of course, the Spaniards don't, that's clear. It can only benefit parliamentary groups to place more people with pay supplements. And it's not like we're being misconceived. [[Several Members: No!]] No, we're just getting to know each other. [[Laughter]] Yes, because a few weeks ago we proposed that the committees, which are nothing but working groups, should have the minimum size necessary for all the groups to be able to participate in all the committees. That number, as we estimate, was thirty-one persons, thirty-one members in each Commission. The Spaniards of the real world, who are out there, the one you don't know, those who make up the early Spain - their laughter confirm what I was saying - the Spaniards who work and those who have ever worked in a group know perfectly well that a group of thirty-one people to work is practically ungovernable. [[laughs]] Well, you did not content yourself with thirty-one, but imposed that there should be forty-three members in each Commission, precisely to place more people. We remain alone in our proposal. And when you, all of you, wanted to set up the committees on 30 July and we proposed that it be done in September, on the first Monday, on day 2, since no work was to be done in August, you also left us alone. I don't know if you'll remember, but some of you even laughed at us and said, "Yes, in August it's going to work a lot." [[shows a photograph]] Well, today we know that nothing has been worked on in August, but yes, the complements have become, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] That's as if a Spanishman goes to work on July 31st in a new company, signs the contract first thing in the morning and in the afternoon warns that he's going away for a month on vacation. [[Rumors]] The result is that in August... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u137	Excuse me, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Please remain silent, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u138	That's right, in August, the presidents, vice presidents, secretaries, spokespersons, deputy spokesmen have paid for their complement, we have paid for our complement, with a result... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u140	Don't get nervous. [[Several Members: No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Don't get nervous. You've earned it, even if you haven't seen it on your payroll, because Congress has its procedure. That cost to the era has been nothing less than EUR 480,000, almost half a million euros that the Spaniards have paid for a job that has not yet begun. In real Spain, in early-morning Spain, I tell you that is unthinkable. But not satisfied with wanting to charge for doing nothing, now they want to set up more committees so that more of their Members will cover more, because of working for national cohesion nothing, but working for the cohesion of the parties, that is. [[Rumors]] But don't get nervous, don't get so indignant, don't get so... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please, the speaker, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is speaking. The rest of the groups will then have the opportunity to take the floor as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Eight new committees are intended to be approved, with their corresponding eight Bureau presidents, their first vice-presidents, their second vice-presidents, first secretaries and second secretaries. In total, more or less than EUR 20 000 per month per Commission, we are talking about EUR 160 000 per month for the eight committees which are to be added. What seems worse is that this is a normal practice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] I see it's generating some controversy. Well, since we set up the committees on 30 July, we have raised the number of members of each committee to 43, since they have created more paid posts for Members in the subcommittees, at least we do not set up any new committees, as they could perfectly be subsumed in the parent committees. The Toledo Pact Commission, which is a very important Commission, could perfectly be a subcommission of the Labour and Social Security Commission; that of Road Safety, in the Interior; that of Children, in Social Affairs, and so on. Exceptionally, we do understand that the Spanish Broadcasting Commission must move forward, because it is not subsumable in any pre-existing Commission and makes sense of its creation, especially to prevent Mr Sánchez and his partners from turning Spanish Television into a version of Aló, President without anyone controlling it.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u143	You'd have to finish, please, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u144	For all the above, it is clear that you have assumed, with all the joy of the world, that phrase that the Vice President said when she was not Vice President, which is what we are handling public money and that is nobody's. Well, even if it is by using its logic - the vice president did not say so, Mrs Carmen Calvo -, in VOX we believe that the money that is handled in this House is someone's, it is of each of the Spaniards, who have names and surnames, and that is why we ask the utmost respect in the management of the public era, because it is the money of Spain that comes early, and I invite you all to manage it a little better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u146	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I would like to start by doing a small sequence of what has been called commissions in this Congress in recent years, basically to find that there has actually been a proliferation of commissions, perhaps we could talk about some institutional inertia. One has to think, for example, that in the IX Legislature there were six permanents, four mixed; in the X Legislature there were eight permanents and five mixed; in the XII Legislature there were ten permanents and seven mixed; and in which we are currently in the same figure. It seems, indeed, that this inertial phenomenon is taking place. I would also say that we must include an additional reason which has to do with the political context in which Spain is currently located; a context of continuing political crisis, I would say that for the past four or five years, a parliamentary system in crisis, we could say, understanding such a term not in its literality, but in the meanings which have been used etymologically; that is, what has to do with the transformations, with the changes, which is exactly the historical phase in which we are in. I say all this because, indeed, more political actors have emerged, and although unfortunately on these dates there are still characters who want to rescue a corpse called bipartisanism, in fact the Spanish political system has already changed to a multipartisan system. It must also be borne in mind that, precisely, this political crisis that we have experienced in recent years has led to a significant slowdown in legislative output itself. In this sense, looking for some data, I saw, for example, that 198 laws were passed in the IX Legislature; in the X, 244, and in the past, 103, that is, half. Given this difficulty in legislative production, we could almost say that we can understand a certain desire of the parliamentary groups to focus on the control work of the institutions, since the legislative function - as I said - appears, at least partially, castrated. On the other hand, we see the list of the eight committees that appear today for adoption and, frankly, it makes it very difficult for us to say that one of them is not a priority, because actually the eight are. In this regard, despite the account I have just described, the interest of the parliamentary groups and of political work itself undoubtedly invites us to think that we should set up these committees. Certainly, as long as this situation of legislative immature remains, we suspect that this will be the natural trend, but of course we and we are not going to oppose that trend insofar as - as I said - as long as the parliamentary groups want to work, want to control and want to do their work as Members, we and we will be on that side. Having said that, I am surprised at what I have heard before in this very rostrum of the representative of VOX, that of early Spain and all this sort of thing, and frankly I find it very hard to believe it when I hear these kinds of words from people like the previous speaker; above all, talking about protecting public accounts to which of course we would also like to protect. In that regard, I would like to take the opportunity to introduce our little parliamentary group into this House and to warn that it is possible to manage Congressional budgets that are more discreet, more austere and that we do not transfer austerity precisely to fellow citizens, but rather apply it here in this House. Therefore, if the VOX group or any other group is interested in discussing how we can cut spending that our parliamentary group believes to be excessive, we will be happy to discuss it. However, not to undermine the ability of legislators, Members of Parliament and Members of this House to do the work for which they have been elected. That's the exclusive power of citizenship, which is the one that puts us here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u148	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the truth is that if you want to make a populism competition you have within the House parliamentary groups that of course have been demonstrating this populism since they arrived at these institutions. I wouldn't want it to be your case, but of course your exposure a few minutes ago points in that direction. This is the worst populism that can be done. You do not know the work that is done in these non-legislative committees, and you do not know the work because it is not only the work of Members, but also the appearances of civil society. It is the only space that has many organizations, trade union organizations, citizens' organizations, who come to tell us what their problems are, who come to tell us what they think the solutions are, and we have to listen to that. I know that perhaps your parliamentary group does not like to hear what citizens want to say, but this is the space, this is the little and small space that citizens have to talk about, not to talk about you, but to talk about them. [[applause]] I think that we owe it to all the citizens, so do not try to sneeze, sneeze at the opinions of the citizens, who are going to tell us to our face in the committees, for a desire to improve the funding or the financial results of this House, which seems to me very well: I believe that we must save, and there are many ways of doing so, but certainly not by sparing in committees, which are really the space of representation, first of all, of the citizens and, then, of which the citizens have chosen, that we are the Members. Furthermore, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I do not know how you want to remove control mechanisms from this government. But if you have been on the Board of Spokesmen this morning and have seen what the Socialist Parliamentary Group and this socialist government are doing, you have stolen the legislative proposals of all the groups in this House only by qualifying the legislative proposals of your own group! What do you want, for us to take more control of the government? Is that it? [[Applauds]] Because this morning you didn't say that. I believe that at this stage we cannot discuss the fact that a Committee such as the Committee on the Rights of the Child and Adolescents must be eliminated when we are dealing with truly important problems for all our children, for all our children. The one from the Toledo Pact? But if it's probably the biggest problem we're going to have in the future and we have to fix it! What are we going to do with the pensions? Where do you think the pensioners will come to tell us what their problems are? At the Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the Toledo Pact. It seems to you that this is not worth anything. I understand that you probably have nothing to do with Democratic Quality and Anti-Corruption; we are very interested, because I think that is one of the real cancers that this political system has. The fight against corruption must be imposed and must be bounded; every day we should be working against this and you want to carry it with a pen, it does not interest you. It seems a lie that those who come to these new institutions now say that the fight against corruption should not be a priority of the Congress of Deputies, which should not be a priority of public representatives. [[Applauds]] It's amazing, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros! I understand that you do not want to know anything about the Commission on the Follow-up to the State Pact against Gender Violence; I understand that because that is what you are saying, but we do want to follow up on the Government of what the agreements of that State Pact are that this Government has not done anything to start implementing, and it is precisely in that Commission that the Government is going to be called upon to start implementing all the agreements of the State Pact, and it is going to follow up on those agreements. I understand that perhaps the fight against gender-based violence and sexist violence does not matter to you; our group cares very much. [[Applauds]] Finally, I understand that the Joint Commission on Sustainable Development Goals is not very interested in it. As you do not believe in climate change, in the need for this country to truly bet on clean air in our cities, to bet on a transformation of our entire environmental environment, this probably does not interest you either; not only this, but also sustainable development with the rest of the countries, with less prosperous communities; and the development pacts within our entire industry, which we also have room to do so. Finally, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we already know that you, for the sake of saving, do not want to work. We do want to work, so we will vote in favour of these committees being set up. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I would ask you not to be arrogant about the representation of all the Spaniards because you do not have it, and less about all the Spaniards who are early, because this parliamentary group, like most of us in this House, is early. [[applause]] Let us all, as well as you, rise early to be part of those bureaux of the committees on which you are responsible. This parliamentary group to which I represent at this time, the People's Parliamentary Group, throughout August has been working, we have acted as parliamentarians. Among our obligations is that of control of the Government, and among all of us, between the sixty-six Members of Parliament, we add more than 1,300 parliamentary initiatives to exercise control of the de-government in office and, at the same time, to present initiatives. [[applause]] Therefore, forgive me, but what you have said about the work of the Members of Parliament tell you, that probably with twenty-four, you will have worked much less and it will be likely that during the month of August you have not done what, of course, the People's Parliamentary Group has done and is where you belong as parliamentarians and serious party that we are. I also wanted to make some reflections on the committees that are being submitted for approval. These committees, all of them, are not new committees, they are committees that already have several legislatures; committees that for us, for the People's Parliamentary Group, are necessary, they are standing committees that must be adopted. Among them, they will allow me not to highlight all, I will refer to three of them, as mere examples. One of them is that of the Toledo Pact, so you say that you are so worried about the early Spaniards. It is precisely this Commission in which, through dialogue, agreements must be reached for the pension system of all our elderly people. That is so important to us, that our elders, who are their pensions, are so concerned, that it is being studied within the Commission and an agreement is reached. Unfortunately, the agreement that could not be reached in the last parliamentary term because Podemos abstained but, in any case, from our group we have put forward this initiative so that this Commission could be collected between eight o'clock. With regard to the monitoring and evaluation of the agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence, I understand that you do not want to recognize the term 'gender violence', but, as the previous speaker said, it is the Commission responsible for ensuring that a pact is implemented that the People's Parliamentary Group, with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, committed itself to moving forward in order to end the social scourge that it assumed for women, which was budgeted with more than EUR 1 billion. [[applause]] And that Government that has left office - because, yes, it is in office but does not exercise it when it is not right for it - has also done so with regard to the pact against gender-based violence. What we want through this Commission is for the Vice-President to comply only with the pact, to comply with all the legislative measures that she has left pending. Finally, they are going to allow me to refer to a Commission that I am very fond of because in previous stages I have been part of it and it is the Spanish Radio-television Control Commission. At the moment we have an absolutely governmental Spanish Radio Television, directed by a lady who is a temporary sole administrator and over whom no one exercises control. Look at the barbarity, the nonsense! We have a Spanish Radio Television that we pay all the Spaniards, in which at the moment there is no board of directors that can say yes or no to any of their decisions and neither has parliamentary control, because since the dissolution of the Courts - in April I think I remember, if my memory fails - they have not exercised control over it; and the board of directors has not done so since it was appointed in July 2018. Therefore, if this Commission is not set up at this time, what control can be exercised over the single administrator? Only administrator that the Government is pleased to continue; only administrator that has already told you that we will accelerate, that we have to hire the stage because the elections are there, because there will be no coalition, and since there will be no government agreement we have to accelerate. And from the minute one has devoted himself to manipulating the information in the Spanish Radio-television news; from the minute one has dedicated himself to trying to cover up the errors, the misconceptions of this government, has dedicated himself to going against the opposition systematically. [[applause]] In that, unfortunately, the People's Parliamentary Group has taken the biggest hit, the biggest prize on this occasion. That is why we believe that it is not only necessary to set up and set up all these committees but, in particular, the committees we have appointed for them, and I understand that you should agree with their approach and say that yes, we must exercise the parliamentary control that we have, that we must not deny that none of these committees will come into operation because each and every one of them is not new, they are necessary and they have not overcome their issues. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, early morning is not that you have come too early to present your declaration of property. [[Applauds]] Now, it did dawn to agree with your Citizens and People's Party partners your presence at the commissions and at the tables, which you say is to charge too much. I think sometimes it confuses the overpayment with the underpayment. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] There's a problem there. Don't complain!, if you had been a little early in the morning when you made your proposals for law now you would be arguing, but you fell asleep. It costs them this early morning. Only early for what they are interested in, otherwise they are in no hurry, they are in no hurry. The truth is that when they said they were going to intervene at the committee level this morning, a matter that is not normally discussed, I started to turn around. Which Commission will be the one you don't like, right? And I've seen the democratic quality one, which I already know you don't like very much. That democratic quality and VOX doesn't seem to go very well together... But I thought it shouldn't be that, and I followed. Is it perhaps the rights of children and adolescents? Where we talk about our children and families, not man!, I'm sure they don't, I'm sure they're interested. Or maybe it's the Toledo Pact where we're going to talk about pensions? And I thought, will they have the courage to say that this is not an important issue? And all of a sudden I've seen that of gender-based violence. That's it, this is the one they don't want, as they say it's a lie they want to eliminate it! [[Applauds]] They haven't had enough. Do you think it's a lie that there's a thousand murdered women?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But it is not that they do not want this Commission, it is that they do not want any! They say that 'we are Spain that is early and likes to work', and we do not want commissions because we have to work a lot. Don't you like that there's a lot of meetings? Do you know what happens to them in the background? That what they don't like they want to eliminate. They want to re-centralize the autonomies and they want to re-centralize the Congress of Deputies! They want to eliminate autonomy and commissions! What you like is to ban, eliminate, remove debate and debate, reduce democratic debate. They don't like to work. It is also very curious that they say it is difficult to work thirty-one people together. I imagine that's why you're only twenty-four. Because they can't be anymore! Because they don't know how to work, they don't know how to build majorities. [[Applauds]] Look, you know what your problem is? They do not understand that democracy is participation, working in all areas and not just worrying about what goes on on television. If they've been portrayed in the end. What's all they're worried about? Gender-based violence, which they want to eliminate and which they deny, families, pensions, democratic quality, the fight against corruption?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, they're worried about TV and how you guys get out. They've been portrayed! That is their problem, they have been portrayed in front of all citizens: they do not like to work or early morning, they do not like to pay, they do not like to have a democratic debate. That is the problem you have and as you always solve it as in the old days: banning, banning and banning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, on the basis of what article does the word ask for?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u154	Madam President, Rule 71(1) by reference to allusions. Very briefly, I would like to review three things. First, to find that we have managed to agree...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u155	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we cannot reopen the debate. If you consider that there has been any specific reference to the reference to the reference.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u156	Madam President, we have managed to agree on all the parliamentary groups, except our own. [[Laughs.-Protests]] That's a first...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u157	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I will not allow you to reopen the debate because you would have to give the floor to the rest of the parliamentary groups and the debate has already taken place.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u158	We now discuss the request, made by the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican, for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK 5022 from Spanair. To defend the request made by its groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Pita Cárdenes, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u159	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise again to this rostrum to demand the obvious. On 20 August 2008, a chain of errors caused one of the worst tragedies in Spanish civil aviation. We remember this here in February last year when we called for the constitution - and this was approved - of the Committee of Inquiry. As you know, the flight was the JK 5022 of the Spanair company. There were 154 dead, 18 survivors with life-long sequels and hundreds of people who lost their families: their children, their parents, their grandchildren; whole families who, as they say, lost part of their hearts that day. We said it then, and we repeat it now, if we can be much more convinced, because, indeed, the electoral advance of the previous legislature deprived us of reaching the conclusions regarding the investigation of that tragedy. But it gave us time to listen, it gave us time to listen and a lot. We hear very eloquent silences, selective memory, but above all we hear the overwhelming narrative of the survivors, of the firemen, of the medical staff, who lived in situ the tragedy, of the relatives who that night were mistreated, of the pilots, of the technicians. They all came to corroborate the why of this investigation, because that fateful day was the combination of a chain of stupendous failures of the control mechanisms whose ultimate responsibility - at the top of the pyramid of responsibility - is the public administration, that is, the state because operational security is an obligation in which the Spanish State has all the competences. All the competitions. Millions and millions of people are moving through our airports, in 2018, 264 million passengers. The crash aircraft had an airworthiness certificate that expired on 22 July 2008. The Spanair company obtained the extension of the licence without inspection - without inspection - for a month. Look, if me or any of you didn't pass the ITV from our car and we were walking with him down the street, the local police would fine us. Well, the Spanair company got the license extension - without inspection - for another month. That extension expired on 22 August 2008; two days earlier the plane crashed. The Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents of Civil Aviation, known as the Ciaiac, under the Ministry of Development, drew up the official report on the accident, was its obligation. Well, the Official College of Commercial Aviation Pilots made an evaluation, independent of that report, and determined that it was not only not effective but that it lacked rigour. It didn't even establish why the plane's warning system failed that could have prevented the accident. Two years later, in 2010, ICAO, which is an independent agency of the United Nations, conducted an audit of the Spanish civil aviation system and issued more than 20 black spots in security, many of them related to the failures in certification, supervision and even training of the members of the Ciaiac. In short, ladies and gentlemen, that report of the Commission of Inquiry into Accidents and Incidents of Civil Aviation should have met its objective, which was nothing else to point out and therefore correct the causes behind the tragic accident, but logically whether or not these causes are hidden, as was the case, is impossible to correct. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely for us to assume this responsibility for Members and Members of this House to assume this important task. It is up to us to investigate and clarify the causes of this tragedy and we must do so with rigour, honesty and courage. The Members who were in this Commission in the previous parliamentary term express our commitment to continue in this new one until the end, to draw those conclusions which must give truth, justice and therefore reparation to the victims. It's our obligation. I can't get off this rostrum without referring to you, the Flight Affected Association JK 5022. The novelist Milan Kundera said that the struggle of man and woman against power is the struggle of memory against oblivion. Thank you for that struggle, thank you for not forgetting, thank you for reminding us of our responsibility because, indeed, we are the memory we have and the responsibility we assume. Without you this would not be possible. Thank you very much. [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-en Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú addressed to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on August 20, 2008, the flight of the company Spanair JK 5022 took off from Madrid Barajas airport, but never arrived at its destination in the Canary Islands. In the retina of many of us are the shocking images of television, the fire and the suffering of families, of those families who were waiting for their loved ones at the airport of Canarias; 154 people died, 154 people who saw their lives dried up forever at two and four in the afternoon. It is therefore an obligation to know, eleven years later, without doubt, ladies and gentlemen, what were all, absolutely all, the reasons for this tragic accident, one of the worst in the history of Spanish aeronautics. Even today, eleven years later, family members, friends and ordinary citizens cannot explain some of the reasons that led us to this tragic accident. It was therefore a good thing that in the last parliamentary term the Congress of Deputies created a Commission of Inquiry, because we can only get over this terrible fact if the families of the victims and Spanish society are convinced to know everything, absolutely the whole truth about the causes of the accident. We know that the electoral call meant that the Congressional Commission of Inquiry, which was about to present its final conclusions publicly, could not do so and, therefore, it is a political and moral obligation of this House today to continue that work of the Commission of Inquiry. First of all for the victims, of course, in the second place in order to give a definitive exit to the work of all the Members and of all the Members who worked in this parliamentary committee, and in particular I would like to quote two: Mr Joan Olòriz, a Republican Member who worked hard in this parliamentary committee. [[Applauds]] I would also like to congratulate fellow Mary Pita, who preceded me earlier in her speech, who was the chairman of that Committee of Inquiry. We must put an end to those conclusions, we must present them publicly, we must explain them pedagogically to the families of the victims of that accident. I'm done. True, of course; security, the conclusions of this committee of inquiry will also benefit the Spanish aeronautical system so that an accident of these characteristics will never be repeated again, and, of course, repair and sensitivity, sensitivity with people suffering from an accident of these characteristics. It goes for them, let's do it, deputies and deputies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. At the time of the fixing of positions and by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Pilar, Henar, I try not to get excited again. I remember the year, I nailed the day of the accident because I left the Permanent Chamber and I had to say publicly that I was going to the Canary Islands - there were deputies who didn't know, I remember José Bono -, at the time it was the accident and I started getting a lot of calls - I was at the T4 - because they didn't know if I had taken that plane. I remember 2011, when I met Pilar, everyone in the association and we prepared those first appearances of those secretaries of state, of AENA and general directors, who told us that everything had worked out well. I was very lonely that year 2011. But thanks to Podemos, thanks to Esquerra, there has finally been a commission of inquiry. These people, that of the association, have already had their judicial battles - one day you will know the truth of what they have been - against the insurers, but today for what they are fighting is not for them, the dead, the relatives, the wounded are in memory, for what they are fighting is because that chain of errors, which was a chain of errors, in which it has not been corrected practically anything - and that has become clear in the sessions of the commission of inquiry that we had -, do not happen again; only one thing does not generate the accident but that chain of errors does. It's been very hard I've been a Member for 11 years, I was a mayor for 11 years, and the toughest testimonies we've ever had have been in this accident investigation committee. On the one hand, for the testimony of people who were breaking up, such as the first people they attended and those who were never asked how the care system worked after the accident; the Ciaiac report said that it had worked reasonably well, but the Samur doctors gave us the testimony that no one asked them what had failed; to the firefighters who were on the front line no one asked them what had failed. The victims who were there saw people die after the accident because it took forty-five minutes to arrive. And in the meantime, the airport, the emergency services, the fire department hasn't corrected anything. But for me the hardest thing was the testimony of a chief executive responsible for a big company, which I am not going to name because I am not going to play the game, that when this deputy asked him where he was and how he found out that day of the accident he told us: for if it was laborable he would be in my office and if it was weekend he would be in my house. He was not even able to remember where he was that day that a plane from his company suffered the accident, when he came to a Congress that knew what day and time the accident was, a contempt! That can't stay that way, that can't stay that way. We didn't have much to do with the report. This association is now a world leader in aviation safety with presentations in the United States and everywhere. And I still remember - my partner Ana Pastor, our partner, then minister, was the one who, together with the association, approved the Statute of Victims of Accidents - the truancy in the Commission of Inquiry of a public office, which meddled with the PP and medded with the PSOE, which came to say that thanks to it and to the sensitivity with the Association of Victims there was the statute. The association itself said it was Ana Pastor, her individual decision, along with the Association of Victims. That is why this Commission has to finish the report in order to improve the firefighters, to improve the Samur, to improve Aena, to improve the Ciaiac and, above all, to ensure that we in this country have the assurance that the air accident investigation commissions, like others, are, indeed, independent, neutral commissions and that the future will improve so that what happened to this JK aircraft will not happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u165	I would not like to begin this intervention without reminding Commander Marín, an officer of the 51st promotion of the General Air Academy, a member of the Eagle Patrol, who fell on duty on 26 August in front of the waters of the Sea Minor. Also remember, of course, the 154 fatal victims of the Spanair JK 5022 flight accident and all the victims of aviation accidents. We all remember on August 20, 2008 when we heard the terrible news of the accident at the take-off runway at Barajas airport, the flight of Spanair JK 5022 to Gran Canaria, whose tragic balance was 154 fatal victims and 18 survivors who, today, carry serious consequences for life. Among these 154 fatalities are 9 certified victims who, despite having survived the impact, the mortal race, the embankment, the fire of eighty tons of kerosene and the river, died because the emergency services took more than forty-five minutes to assist them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to note that 2 of these 9 people who could have survived died from drowning. In this air disaster, all the mechanisms of the State have failed dramatically. An air accident of these dimensions is caused by a chain of errors. The expert on human error, James Reason, in his famous theory of Gruyère cheese claims that the accident occurs when the holes are aligned in the same line. All holes simulate the different stages of air safety. It also claims that these accidents originate at the highest levels of the State administration. It is reasonable that an air catastrophe of the magnitude of flight JK 5022 would have reversed the Spanish civil aviation security system. Thanks to the testimonies of the survivors and the generosity of the family members, their warmth, their time and their effort commercial aviation has a golden opportunity to subtract knowledge, which must be translated into the modification of the safety procedures in the air transport and the ferocious compliance with them. We cannot and must not allow political or economic interests to land on this tragedy and allow this investigation to be falsely closed. From the forty-three appearances carried out and from the Journals of Sessions of the Commission of Inquiry unfinished during the previous legislature, the evidence is drawn that the official report is incomplete and that there was another order of errors. These are the holes in Reason's cheese theory, which lined up to cause 154 dead and 18 injured. Whether or not the official report hides those mistakes, we will have learned nothing. We haven't learned anything. On the night of Reyes in 1970 a Convair Coronado of the Spanish company Spantax rushed into the void after taking off from Arlanda airport in Stockholm. There were three crew members and seven passengers on board. Five passengers were killed. The long and thorough investigation resulted, on the one hand, in the creation by the Swedish health system of an emergency unit until then deficient and, on the other hand, global aviation safety included the technical procedure which, if applied, would have avoided the tragedy. Who's talking to you is the daughter of the commander who was piloting the ship and survivor of the accident. That is the object of the investigations, ladies and gentlemen, to improve air safety and to avoid future misfortunes and casualties. Air safety has no political colour. We may or may not agree on the form, but not on the bottom. The State has not corrected a single cause of this tragedy. The victims' families have been the only driving force behind massive work inside and outside Spain for the safety of everyone. Aware that we represent all Spaniards, we must work to clarify the truth. The VOX Group, to which I represent, joins the Commission's work on the tragedy of Flight JK 5022 and will vote in favour of the creation of it. Much work has already been done and the report remains to be issued. The best tribute to the victims is to conclude the conclusions of this Commission, which we do not see as similar to another Commission. These victims deserve the truth, and this Parliament cannot disappoint them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs Esteban. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in this plenary today deciding on the establishment of the JK 5022 Accident Investigation Commission, in which 150 people died on 20 August 2008. I am very pleased to see that you are the president of the association of those affected. Welcome, Pilar, to your house. It should be remembered that this is one of the most serious air accidents in history not only in Spain but in Europe. The magnitude of the tragedy causes us to take it very seriously and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, of course, will support the creation of the Commission. We are going to vote in favour to resume and complete all the work that we started in the previous parliamentary term. Those of us who had the privilege of being in that Commission know how hard some of the appearances were and how we were put in many cases at the top of our hairs with the tearers - this has already been said by some of the representatives who preceded me in the use of the word - testimonies of what was lived after the accident. Those 154 people were parents, mothers, daughters, children, grandparents, grandmothers, friends and we could have been either of us. Any of us when we catch a plane do so with the intention and the assurance that we will reach our destination. Unfortunately, that day 154 people did not reach their own. I remember perfectly as if it were today where I was that day, where I was on August 20 at 2.30 p.m. I was in Cantabria with my family, with my wife and daughter, and just at 2:30 we started getting phone calls to ask if we were okay. We were told what had happened and we understood the reason for the alarm. The reality is we were flying on that flight forty-eight hours later. I can assure you that the atmosphere that lived on the flight back home is inextricable. What he felt was respect, mourning and fear; it was fear and fear for not knowing exactly what the consequences of this accident were and I believe that we owe it to the victims, to the family and to all of us. We need to know clearly why this has happened, so my group is going to support this Commission. We also want to tell you one thing - let me make a clarification - and we would like to see it taken into account that we have to go to the committees without prejudice, that we have to be responsible, serious and rigorous with the work, as we did in the previous Commission. We have to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, for all of us. Finally, I wanted to tell you that in Citizens we want to use it to ask for and draw attention to the need to have a commission of inquiry not only for air accidents but also for maritime or land accidents, but a commission set up with resources and capacity. As mentioned earlier this afternoon in this rostrum, the Air Accident Investigation Commission has clear deficiencies that need to be remedied. I believe that if we succeed in completing the work of this Commission we will be able to have an accident investigation committee so that we will never again have a tragedy and we will never again be able to suffer what the victims and relatives of the victims of JK 5022 suffered. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hernández Bento.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u169	President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been eleven years since that terrible August 20, 2008. The flight of the company Spanair JK 5022 took off from Barajas to Gran Canaria. The consequence of crashing when taking off was 154 people who died. Look, last Sunday, September 8th, we were celebrating our patroness' party in Gran Canaria, and you'll say why I'm telling you this. I tell him because the Bishop began his homily with a memory of the victims and their families. This is the proof that eleven years have passed but they remain in our memory and in the hearts of all the great canaries. [[Applauds]] After that fateful August 20, the Association of Affected Persons of JK 5022 was formed. I would also like to take this opportunity to greet all those concerned on behalf of their president, Pilar Vera. They are, without a doubt, the true motors, tireless in the search for justice and truth, and that moreover this search has remained in time to be able to draw from this tragedy lessons. I think this has been the obsession of the association, an association that I want to thank on behalf of my group for wanting, but above all that they have known, to turn and transform their pain, their loss, into an active commitment to prevent situations like those they lived from happening again. Because, without any doubt - and here I think we will agree with all the groups - they were the ones who provoked with their commitment that the last parliamentary term should be constituted in the Congress of Deputies the Commission of Inquiry into the Accident of Flight JK 5022. In this Commission, the People's Group worked to reach conclusions that would help improve aviation safety, but also shed light on what happened with the intention that it would never happen again. This was our priority. Ladies and gentlemen, aviation safety is not a static concept, it is dynamic, which is why we believe it is our duty - and we have done so - to be open to organisational and regulatory changes whenever they contribute to improving it. During the development of the Commission, we listened to many people. I would say that we attended two types of appearances: on the one hand, appearances of people who contributed little because they either did not remember or mostly referred to the Ciaiac report and to the conclusions of the judicial expert body, but on the other hand, we attended other types of appearances in which judgements were clearly pointed out at different times, before, in the very management of the tragedy and also after. Among them, I would like to highlight the courageous appearances of the survivors, their families and the families of the victims; also of the emergency services, of those who were at the first moment of the tragedy and told us first of the chaos experienced. In those terrible moments, without information, without a passenger list, what little they knew was by the media. Among the lessons learned after this tragedy was the improvement in assistance to victims of civil aviation accidents and their families. It was a government of the People's Party, of course always with the push of the association behind, which in 2013 changed the national regulations. Royal Decree 632/2013 on assistance to victims of civil aviation accidents and their families was published. This rule substantially expanded the existing rights catalogue and improved the coordination and delivery of assistance. I think we can say that today we have better systems for responding to accidents and caring for victims. It is clear that we do not start from scratch in this new committee of inquiry. There is work to be done, but there is also much done. Ladies and gentlemen, our will, the will of the People's Parliamentary Group, has always been to complete the work begun. It was not possible to do so and we committed ourselves with the association - above all - to giving it continuity in this legislature. That is why my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, will support the establishment of this committee to complete the work that has been started. I hope that this committee will not - and it would be the second time - be the victim of Mr Sánchez, in this case because of his lack of interest in forming a government as before because of his haste to call for elections; ultimately because of his irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u170	Mrs. Hernandez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u171	In any case, the victims and those affected will count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u172	Thank you, Mrs Hernandez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Máñez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u173	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin my speech by welcoming and greeting Pilar Vera and the family members who are with us here today, in Congress, and, as those who have also done before me in speaking, recalling the 154 people who lost their lives on 20 August 2008; a tragedy that is difficult to forget and that we must not forget. Today, when we are again debating the creation of this committee, primarily in order to complete the work begun in the previous parliamentary term, I would like to reiterate our feeling of solidarity and support for the families and friends of the victims of this terrible accident. It's a tragedy that eleven years later continues to touch our hearts. And if I may, although the pain of the families is the same regardless of where they came from, I will say that this accident left a terrible impact on my land, in the Canary Islands and in Gran Canaria, and it is always very present in our memory. Willingness and commitment, that was the request made by the association and its president in 2018 to this House and, as a result of that will and commitment, the Commission of Inquiry into the Accident of Flight JK 5022 was approved and launched. The Socialist Group supported the creation of this committee of inquiry in the previous parliamentary term and we again support it with the same conviction of the importance of the conclusions that will finally be drawn from it. I would like to express on behalf of the Socialist Group our appreciation for the work carried out by the JK 5022 Flight Affectors Association over these eleven years for safety and, above all, for the care of victims. They count on our respect and commitment to continue working to contribute to the improvement of the security of commercial aviation in our country, putting in value that we have, fortunately, high standards of security. A great deal of work was done in the previous parliamentary term in the Committee of Inquiry, a work with a constructive spirit, from respect for the victims and with numerous contributions from different professionals and also with the always moving testimony of the people who lived it in the first person; a work from which we have to learn. But above all we have to learn from this tragedy that was the accident of the flight of the JK 5022. It is therefore essential that we can complete all this work begun in the previous parliamentary term, with transparency, respect, rigour and commitment, and have conclusions that will help to further improve, like other instruments, the levels of operational security in the Spanish aviation sector. We have to be, and I am convinced that we are going to be, up to the tragedy that has occurred and working with transparency, with responsibility, with will and with commitment, as Pilar asked us in 2018. Do not doubt that this will and commitment remains firm on the part of the Socialist Party. Safety in aviation and in general in the means of transport is not an objective that begins and ends with the final conclusions of this Commission. The Government's ongoing commitment is to work on all issues affecting the safety of air transport. The Spanish air sector is strategic for our country and also for millions of people who use commercial aviation, among which we include to a greater or lesser extent all the people we find here; for those of us who live on islands of course it is a fundamental means of transport because it is our only way of connecting with the outside. Air safety is a matter of general interest and, for this reason and in response to the work that the association has developed over these eleven years, it is up to us to complete the work begun in the previous legislature, to do so with a constructive spirit, with responsibility and transparency, because above all we are talking about 154 truncated lives and security, something that affects thousands of citizens who are users of air transport. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Máñez. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. First, we voted on the proposal of the Murcia Regional Assembly to reform the Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June on the Statute of Autonomy of the Murcia Region. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 313, plus 1 telematic vote, 314; 292, plus 1 telematic vote, 293; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u176	Consequently, the proposal to reform the Autonomy Statute of the Murcia Region obtains the House's favourable vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u177	Let us proceed to vote for the adoption of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic regulation of Euthanasia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 337 in favour, 242 in favour, 243 in favour, 92 in favour, 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u178	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u179	Let us proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the People's Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on autonomous financing. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and VOX parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 147 against, 175 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u180	It's rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE HARMONIZATION OF CONTENTS AND PAYMENTS IN EBAU TESTS [[EVALUATION OF BACHILLERATO FOR ACCESS TO UNIVERSITY]] [[File number 162/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u181	Proposal for a non-law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on the harmonization of contents and fees to be paid in the Baccalaureate Assessment for University Access tests. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 125 against, 211.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u182	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u183	We then proceed to submit for approval the accounts of the Permanent Chamber of Congress of Deputies of the XII Legislature to the Chamber of the XIII Legislature. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] As a result, the accounting system is approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u184	We shall now proceed to submit for adoption the proposals for the establishment of Committees under items 7 to 14 of the agenda. A separate vote has been requested. In the first place, therefore, the proposal for the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its societies was voted upon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 336.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u185	It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u186	The remaining proposals for agenda items 7 to 11, 13 and 14 were then put to the vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 311 against, 24 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u187	The establishment of the relevant commissions was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u188	Finally, we proceed to vote on the request, made by the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican, for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK 5022 from Spanair. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes cast; 334 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-09-10-CD190910.u189	It was adopted unanimously. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
