ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	We will now proceed to the 35th meeting of the Assembly. We're at one of the last items on the agenda. Before we go to the hearing of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinca, this is the 25th item of the agenda of this meeting, allow me to inform you of the absence of some colleagues who, due to other obligations, cannot attend the meeting today. These are colleagues of Battelli, Christmas, Kacin, Kangler, Lenko and Levič. So many inevitable formalities at the beginning. We're at 25. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE - IN DESCRIPTION OF INTERPELATION ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE INTERNAL MATTER OF DR. COUNCIL OF BOHINC. The Interpellation was submitted by a group of ten Members and Members for consideration by the assembly. The first to be signed under interpolation is our colleague, Dr. Miha Brac. I assume you'd like to further explain the proposal for interpolation. [[Yeah.]] Dr. Miha Brace's colleague will explain the interpolation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister! However, I am counting on spending less time, given that we have much else to do, but at this time, from reporting time to interpolation, so many different things have been accumulated, documents, information that I will probably have to continue this presentation in the positions of the sent groups. But I'll try to make it as short as possible. So what do the motioners say to the minister? First time. Inadequate enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning so-called deleted, not to mention the entire title. How did it all go? The Minister has decided to implement this decision by two laws. First, so-called technical and second, so-called systemic. This way is inadequate and controversial in terms of equality before the law, since the persons referred to in point 8 give priority to all others. This gave rise to two categories of excuses, one of which has the advantage of the other. Although the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision raised a request for direct decisions, Minister Bohinc decided to draw up a special law as a legal basis for the State's administration to issue administrative acts at all. In both the National Assembly and the public, he defended this decision and relied on expert opinions from prominent lawyers. In the process of adopting the technical law, he rejected any attempt to deal with cases individually and acted in a double manner. He did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision when it came to proceedings and insisted on the content. Even after the postponement of the Council of State, he insisted on the technical law in his position, even though it was a good opportunity for him to judge all things again soberly. Following the submission of the request for a subsequent referendum, the legislative referendum on technical law began to change its position and announced the issuance of decisions without a legal basis. In early February 2004, the Ministry began to issue decisions. Therefore, the Minister has consistently defended the technical law throughout 2003, claiming that the law is necessary and, when a referendum request is made, he has begun to issue decisions to the so-called deleted. Before that, the Constitutional Decision was not sufficient to issue decisions, and then suddenly it was. At its 3rd meeting, the National Assembly adopted a decree on the invitation to a referendum. However, Minister Bohinc continued to issue decisions. Thus, a legally insufferable situation arose when, before the approval or rejection of the law proposed by him, he issued a decision and, at the same time, claimed that he was unnecessary. The Slovenian Coalition has proposed an appropriate solution to the technical law and has not been accepted. The Slovenian Coalition has proposed a constitutional law to regulate fair and non-discriminatory treatment of all cases of foreign citizens, but you have not accepted our proposals. Bohinè’s conduct shows a lack of respect for the Constitution and the laws, since the legitimate decision of the National Assembly on the call for a referendum and thus the right of the people to decide and decide at the referendum is simply ignored. The Minister is thus putting himself above the law and the constitution, and he is obviously of little concern to the people. Such conduct is not disputed only from a legal and ethical point of view, but it can create a legally unsustainable situation in the event that the law at the referendum is confirmed. In such a case, certain persons would be given decisions on the basis of a constitutional court and others on the basis of law. Minister Bohinc created confusion and legal chaos by his two-faced conduct: inequality before the law, and in the public eye he encouraged intolerance and hatred. Minister Bohinc is responsible for the situation and should have stepped down a long time ago. In the Liberal Democracy and the United List, Minister Bohinc is the only minister in the world to be intertwined for respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is just a continuation of the perverse political game of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Once it has been decided that the decisions of the Constitutional Court will not be respected, as the Constitutional Court has ordered, and then the same political group decides otherwise. It changes its position and peacefully ignores the Institute of Referendum, although the Constitution states that in Slovenia people rule. Minister Bohinc, Liberal Democracy, the United List continue to mislead the public about human rights being decided at the referendum, which of course is not true. The Minister and everyone else knowingly deceives the public by violating human rights, but keep silent that these human rights are not in our constitution, not in the Charter of Human Rights, but in the Charter of the United Nations. The right to permanent residence is not a human right, citizenship is not a human right, or the state will not. And she doesn't have to explain why she can or won't. Let us not forget that out of some 200,000 non-Slovaks around, 180,000 people settled their status in 1990. When we talk about this issue, however, the decisions were last shown on television. My friend Janš showed us a review because we were just asking for information, but it's hard to get to them. About 90 decisions have been issued, a little less than 40 decisions have been made, which means that these people no longer live here. The Minister did not respond to statements of alleged violations of electoral silence, before the referendum and Sunday. He didn't make any statements, not him, not the government. As a competent minister, I should warn the public that nothing is allowed. Therefore, I also ask him on this occasion what he will do in the event of the announced violations of electoral silence. What's he gonna do if that happens? And also from you ladies and gentlemen, who are so concerned with constitutionality and legality, I have not heard any statement condemning the predictions of individuals and groups who say they will be in violation of electoral silence on Saturday and Sunday. You think that's all right? Not a word from you. Look in the mirror. One more question to the Minister. In the autumn of 2003, you claimed that no one in the title of the technical law would be able to claim compensation. You have told us that we are misleading the public when we have pointed out the financial consequences. Or in the light of the last ruling of the Constitutional Court, I mean this system law, you still insist on these claims. Can you claim that the issuance of decisions will have no financial implications in the sense that compensation may be paid? Second time, a police boat. The contracting authority, the Ministry, issued an invitation on 25 August 2000 to tender for the acquisition of a police and rescue patrol boat. Minister Bohinc became Minister on 1 December 2000. A budget of 165 million tolars was provided for the boat. Elex Unitrade submitted a complete offer on 29 September 2000, after the opening of a bank guarantee on 28 September 2000, which was a condition for the validity of the offer. The inspection of the vessel was possible and carried out as well as a discussion with the producers. That was November 21st. On 18 December, negotiations between the MNZ and the tenderers were concluded, the contract was prepared for signature and also the last coordination meeting. Elex then further reduced his offer and offered favourable payment terms. The guarantee for the seriousness of the offer expired on 27 December. The Minister was warned by both the Commission and Elex Unitrade that he must sign the contract by 27.12. If the guarantee expires, the invitation to tender shall be void. Then he also received warnings from the Koper Police Administration. If the minister felt that there was anything wrong with this procedure, he should, of course, react or at least renew the guarantee and thus obtain reliable money for the Ministry. But he didn't do it. Given that the procedure was legal, given that the money was in the account, 165 million, given that everything was carried out according to the rules of the game, the rules, I ask the minister why he did not sign the contract for the purchase of a police boat by 27.12.2000. Then what happened? The Minister ordered additional opinions and expertise, with which he delayed the procedure. Nevertheless, Elex was willing to conclude a new contract there by mid-February, but the Minister of the Contract, which was forwarded to him by the Commission, which was responsible for the selection of the best bidder, changed the contract. Such an amended contract is a real reduction in the price and the binding of the purchase on the deferred condition of the appropriations in the budget, signed itself on 8 March. This is the last day of the tendering period. By the way, the State Audit Commission has, of course, found that it has done the wrong thing. Although the amended contract, which the Minister knew was not acceptable to the tenderer, was signed on 8 March, the selection decision was forwarded to Elex Unitrade a month later. So, Elex first got an unacceptable contract, and a month later, he got a choice decision. And what does this contract look like? This is not a contract drawn up by Elex Unitrade. This is a contract made by the Minister himself. On this contract you see the minister's signature, but you don't see the offerer's signature. This is not to say that within a period of time the minister signed the contract that the company has drawn up, but he has changed the terms and conditions, he has drawn up a new contract, signed it, and claims that he has done his job within a period of time. It's purely a deceiving of the public. This is an act that is not worthy of anyone, let alone a minister. Before the State Audit Commission, the Minister claimed that he had forgotten to submit a decision on the selection of the tenderer. When we look at this contract, it is perfectly clear to us that he could have forgotten that. Sure. The amended contract of the Minister was given to the selected company, Elex, before the decision, as I said. And, of course, the State Audit Commission found in the so-called Decision that the Public Procurement Act and the Financial Regulation were in breach. It also explicitly pointed out that irregularities in the award of a public contract were such that Elex Unitrade had the possibility of recovering damage to a competent court. I've got a whole bunch of these contracts here, and I've got an opinion on the state audit. I wouldn't bother you with that. Anyone who wants to take a look is, of course, invited and is sure of it. It is said that, on this basis, Elex Unitrade submitted an audit request. The decision of the State Audit Commission of 14.6.2001 is the basis for the State Audit Commission's claim for compensation of 20 million dollars. And then more consequences. Although Elex Unitrade would have provided the boat by summer 2001 at the latest, because it happened, which is not to be repeated, at the time when there was no boat, the Ministry of the Interior hired a boat and paid for it for it for 3 million a month. Now, just count, by July 2003 this is about 24 times 3 million. The selected company from Séžana, which has supplied a new boat, is also announcing a compensation action. But what kind of boat is chosen? It was selected from a manufacturer who could not show such a boat. But they did a computer simulation. No one spoke to the manufacturer because he had nothing to say about the experience he had with boats like these. An aluminium vessel has been selected, which is above standard, as identified by the Special Commission. But, ladies and gentlemen, the boat isn't super standard, but it's a super standard malfunction. That's right. The selected vessel is also difficult to meet the qualification of a working vessel, at least according to the selected equipment is not suitable for navigation in bad weather and the internal equipment is superstandard. This boat has important elements loved by yacht owners, bathrooms and so on. The minister was advised in the first procedure to be selected, from Slovenia and generally counsellors from abroad, to choose a serial vessel, as many other countries have, which have significantly more seas than we do. For these 45 miles that we have, let's say, there would be enough two boats on two points, a series of productions that are huge all over the world. But no, for us a serial vessel is not good enough, it has to be like the previous one, which is mostly standing there somewhere dry. However, it has something in common. In both cases, the supplier is Jadran Sežana. And in both cases, the Ministry of the Interior insisted and carried out procedures by electing Jadran Sežana. Mr. Secretary, why didn't you order a vessel of serial equipment? Where is the reason that a serial vessel that is good for Italians, French, Spanish, Portuguese is not good for our 45 miles of sea? Voluntary pension insurance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed, with an annex to the collective agreement on non-economic activities in the Republic of Slovenia, to introducing collective supplementary pension insurance instead of raising salaries for public servants. Instead of raising salaries for public servants, they agreed to provide voluntary supplementary pension insurance. On 14 November, so before the law was passed, the government or the minister and the government, of course, issued an offer and presented an offer for additional pension insurance. In adopting the law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, Minister Bohinc defended the solutions that limited competition and allowed the monopoly of the successful tenderer. The procedure was again guided so that it was known in advance that Kad will be chosen. He advocated the establishment of only one mutual pension fund. We know, however, that the creation of monopolies is contrary to the principles of the market economy and also contrary to the principles and directives of the European Union's internal market. So the whole procedure was carried out as I said just before. In the assembly of the contractor of the collective supplementary pension insurance, which is subordinated to the Public Procurement Act, the procurement rules were violated. The whole process of operators was imprecise, the criteria changed during the process itself, the Presidents also confirmed the carriage, and we are both Presidents of this Commission. The opinions of the profession were not taken into account either. Minister Bohinc argues that a tender under the Public Procurement Act is not necessary because it is an employee's money for their money. But when you have to give them the right to decide voluntarily which pension society they choose, you don't. And now the minister won't give them those rights. Do things by setting up one closed pension fund. Thus, employees do not receive an increase in salaries, cannot choose a pension fund, although it is an additional voluntary pension insurance, as a result, pensioners are also deprived because the salary has not increased and pensions have not increased. The government boasts positive results with regard to inflation and other macro-economic indicators, but does not say that this has been done to the detriment of 130 000 civil servants and 530 000 pensioners. I ask Minister Bohinca whether such arrangements are in line with pension reform. Why is this insurance called voluntary, but if public servants are unable to choose a pension company where they would be additionally insured. It's the money of the employees or the money of the state. About the pay system in the public sector. The Public Sector Wages Act has been amended twice in a year and a half. There is a lack of a variety of sub-legislative rules, negotiations with trade unions run in a real vacuum, but it is not known what degree of consent the collective agreement will be valid. The Minister was unable to implement plans in the area of the public sector's salary system in the time-frame set by him himself. Despite the Minister's predictions that this will be one of the priorities of his programme, the wage system in the public sector remains opaque, full of imbalances and anomalies at the end of his term of office. The Minister is moving forward and promises a timely solution to the law when it is clear that this promise will not be fulfilled. The Minister does not solve the real problems, the wage imbalances that occur. True, at the time of the rule of liberal democracy it was created in the area of real, real chaos. We have been able to see this through many speeches from all sides. We supported the objectives of the Minister for Change in the Public Sector Wage System. We supported him to handle this. We have made substantial comments and proposals on the adoption of the law and its amendments. But he doesn't listen to them, he doesn't want to hear the opposition's opinion, and he doesn't respect what we said. We have warned him that 1.1.2004 is a completely unrealistic deadline. He didn't. He came in a few months later with an amendment to the Act for 1.7.2004. Again, it is totally unrealistic to expect to be able to apply this law in election year 1.7. You ignored us. Now, of course, the situation is quite clear because the Director of the Public Sector Wages Office has already stated that he cannot predict with certainty when the law will enter into force, as they are currently halfway through work. That was the end of February. Until today, by 1.7.2004, when the new pay system is to enter into force, only three months are to be separated, negotiations between the government and the union on the essential part of the new pay system have not started at all, namely the classification of jobs in payment classes. It is not clear at all how many unions must sign a collective agreement in order to be generally valid. A union that would not sign a contract could challenge its validity, and I would say the minister is playing a dangerous game with 130 thousand employees. It is quite clear that the question of how many unions must sign a collective agreement so that such a question cannot be settled in the contract itself, since, by this logic, one union, for example, of ten, could sign a collective agreement and be valid for all if it were so written in it. But of course that's a complete nonsense. The Minister states in his reply how many regulations have been adopted and how many are being prepared, but we do not tell him that he has not written the rules, we tell him that he has done nothing practical, concrete, which would have had a positive effect in real life. On the contrary, he allowed uncontrolled high wages to be established in individual contracts of directors of public institutions. Is pay policy really successful? However, if the Minister claims that the payment system has not changed in any way since the entry into force. That's what the minister says, we know it, but that's what he says, that's what he confirms. So where are the results? Minister Bohinc has made great promises to settle wage imbalances. It wasn't done. I ask the Minister: What have you done to avoid such discrepancies in salaries under individual contracts as we are now witnessing every day? What wage imbalances have been removed from the beginning of your mandate, and to this day? Do you still think that 1.7.2004 is the period on which you yourself persisted so stubbornly, realistic and will then apply the law? It's a magazine. That's the last point. I'll go over for a minute to be Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	I'm afraid you can't. Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	That's just the last point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	You can't go in the right time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Eyewitnesses, misuse of the magazine for political purposes. Unobjective presentation of the deleted issue, as shown in the introduction, the interview with the Minister, the publication of the results of the polytibarometer and the presentation of the most common issues, claims and dilemmas in relation to deleted ones. It is contrary to the provisions of the Law on State Administration, which provide that the Administration must act impartially in its work and must not give undue benefits and advantages to individuals and individuals, legal persons or interest groups, an attempt to influence the opinion of public servants. The minister's answer is clear. The applicant assumes that the Minister regulates the magazine, even the quotation from the recital is obvious, which he does not hold. It's explicitly written that the author of the quote is an editor. Any intervention in editorial policy would be contrary to media independence, he says.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Peace in the hall. Comrade Dr. Brace, time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	If you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	If you don't mind, I only have ten lines left to say so the minister can answer that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Dr. Brace's colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	You lead the session yourself, we know that we are all the same, and I must be to you now. [[...]] It's been assigned to college for so long. I'll be grateful if you just finish your thought, then I can't give you another word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	That's why the minister is here. I'm here to tell him to the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Yes, Minister, but here are the rules that apply to all the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Please don't be bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	I have ten lines to say that the minister will be able to answer that. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	My friend, Dr. Brace, you're in charge of this session, you know we're all the same, and I need to be with you right now. So much time has been spent in college, and I'll thank you, I'll thank you, if you just finish, then I can't give you another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	That's why the Minister's here. I'm here to tell him the whole time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Yes, Minister, but here are the rules that apply to all the same. Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Please don't be a bureaucrat!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	The facts speak contrary. The responsible editor shall be employed in the Minister's office for the duration of the minister's duties. He has brought the responsible editor to the Ministry of Public Affairs and is his personal adviser to the public. She was appointed as responsible editor by the Minister. The Editorial Board has never discussed the content of the issue number, but it was decided by the editor herself, which is dependent on the minister. What should the research of the polytbarometer be carried out in Slovenian public administration, which according to the Minister is also intended for the Slovenian Administration magazine if it is a professional magazine?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Comrade Brace, I suggest we conclude here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	I'm just gonna ask you a question. Look, just with a question. I mean, that's philistria! Look, in this magazine is Mr Bohinc, I've only looked at four pages so quickly, mentioned nineteen times. He's got an interview, two pictures and so on. How do you comment, Mr. Minister, that your name appears nineteen times in a professional magazine on the front pages alone? How can the independence of the professional magazine be guaranteed by the person you have appointed as your personal public contact consultant, whose career is fully linked to your mandate and therefore depends on you? In short, I'm closing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	My friend Brace, thank you very much. Now, definitely, at your performance, or at your input, Dr. Rado Bohinc will respond, and if the minister goes a little in his time, I will take that into account. Then I ask everyone to respect the time available to them in the views of the groups of Members and to discuss the Members. If the minister goes any minute later, I'll take the agreed time, just like you, that's his wish. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members! All those who follow this consideration today! Let me say this in the introduction: "Interpection comes from a different understanding of the deletion of democracy and the rule of law." Interpellators claim that there was no deletion at all. This position is in complete contradiction with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which clearly state that the 1992 and 1999 foreign legislation was incompatible with the Constitution. That the fundamental constitutional principles of the rule of law and equality before the law were violated. That you need to edit deleted status. You have issued a political request to me under the sanction of interpretation for the Ministry of the Interior not to issue deleted decisions, even though this has been imposed by the Constitutional Court. As Minister, I swore that I would respect constitutional order, so I did not and I do not intend to comply with the policy requirements of cinema against the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Even at the cost of interpolation. In my choice of violation of the constitutional order and of the interpretation, I have decided on the latter, i.e. to defend myself against an incredible charge, namely to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The requirement of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision can never be reconciled with the constitutionally consistent solution of the deleted. This is the core of this political conflict, which cannot be a credible basis for any interpretation. Interpellation to the Minister because he respects constitutional order is unprecedented in the European democratic tradition and what a clarinet contribution to European democratic standards. It is clear from the fact that it is possible to decide politically how many constitutions and how many decisions of the Constitutional Court and human rights we will respect. My starting point is the opposite, namely full commitment to constitutional order and law and unconditional respect for the Constitutional Court as its highest guardian of human rights and freedoms. You are implying that there is nothing to justify so-called alleged illegality in the Ministry of the Interior. I also reject the charge most decisively on behalf of my associates. All my previous participation in the Ministry has been subject to what I have sworn to this National Assembly and Slovenian people to respect constitutional order and work for the welfare of Slovenia. Everything I've been running the Ministry of the Interior, that's the fourth year, I've been doing my job conscientiously, responsibly, honestly and legally. This has also been confirmed by the Court of Auditors, which in its audit reports for 2001 and 2002 gave the Ministry of the Interior a positive assessment without reservation. Those of you who want to take a look at this, which is up to you, here's the audit report. You can see page 63 of the 2002 audit report and you will see this assessment or the 2001 audit report on page 49, where the speeches are, "in our opinion", the Court of Auditors said, "in the financial year 2002 the Ministry of Internal Affairs was operating in all important respects in accordance with the rules", in a round-up, a positive opinion. Allow me now, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, some emphasis on individual charges. The first is an alleged inappropriate exercise of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. Interpellators claim that there has been an apparent abuse of the Ministry of Interior as a whole for political purposes. I ask you whether it is even possible to politically abuse the Ministry by enforcing the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Certainly not in the rule of law and democracy. The talk of political abuse when it comes to the enforcement of a Constitutional Court decision can only come from the mouth of those who publicly call on the Minister not to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court and therefore to violate constitutional order in the country. Responsibilities for the constitutional non-conformity of the legislation on foreigners and for the deleted cannot be imposed either by the current government or by the current Minister for Home Affairs or by the current authorities. After 12 years, the Ministry of the Interior finally decided to resolve this issue in a planned, systematic and objective manner, with a view to establishing the required constitutional and compliance situation, taking strictly into account the 8th point of last year's decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, you accuse me, both for the submission of two laws and for the direct issuance of decisions, because, contrary to the Constitutional Court, you feel that there has been no deletion at all. The accession to the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision by the submission of two laws was fully legally corrected, constitutionally permissible and also meaningful and more appropriate for the purposes of administrative procedure. Since you objected to the direct issuance of decisions, it was reasonable to expect that you would support the legal regime of the status deleted. Regrettably, the differences in terms of this fundamental question, whether or not the deletion was at all, have proved to be such that any constitutionally-conforming political alignment on this issue is impossible. At the time of the submission of the laws, it was not possible to foresee as much politicisation of the issue as it was later followed. The Ministry of the Interior was therefore forced to issue decisions directly on the basis of point 8 of the Constitutional Court. There was simply no other choice if we wanted to preserve the face of the rule of law and if the minister wanted to respect constitutional order in the country. In last December's decision, the Constitutional Court explicitly explained, quote: "With the possible rejection of the law at the subsequent legislative referendum, the duty of the National Assembly to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision will not be terminated. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior's duty to begin immediately with the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision and that the Ministry of the Interior has a legal basis in the Constitutional Court's decision and is therefore obliged to start implementing the decision, thereby eliminating the finding of non-constitutional status in the decision", the end of the quotation from the Constitutional Court's decision. As it is known, the Ministry is part of the executive branch of the Authority and is therefore bound by the principle of the obligation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Ministry of the Interior could not have acted differently than it had begun to issue decisions directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. It is entirely unfounded and also legally unreasonable to charge that the Ministry of the Interior has violated the rule of law by initiating decisions, by violating the rule of law, in order for decisions to be issued to lead to inequality before the law. The Minister shall be bound by the constitutional principle of the rule of law defined in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This principle means that the Ministry of the Interior must respect and enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court in the manner ordered in its decisions. Direct decision-making on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision is not against the rule of law, but it is quite the opposite: it is the establishment of that principle. The inequality created in 1992 will be eliminated by the issuance of decisions. Decisions issued on permanent residence issued by the Ministry pursuant to Article 153, paragraph 4, of the Constitution relating to the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision may not have a different legal effect than those issued under the established technical law. I reiterate that the decisions are only issued to those who have already received a residence permit and actually live in Slovenia at least since 25.6.1991, and this has already been established in the administrative procedure of granting a permanent residence permit. Exactly as the Constitutional Court ordered. To date, this is 30.3.2004, an administrative procedure has been initiated for 4 000 356 people. Of these, 171 were dead, 3 000 112 were signed and 2 thousand 53 were sent. Returned, single 19 and undeniably engaged, these deliveries, 190, will be subsequently verified. Decisions shall be issued by authorised administrative officers in the process of careful individual examination. There is no legal basis for the argument by the interpellation motioners that the Minister should take into account the opinion of the group of legal experts instead of the Constitutional Court. Notwithstanding the different opinions of the legal profession, it is clear that no opinion can replace or even nullify a decision of the Constitutional Court. But the opinions are different. In the commentary to Dr. Lovra Šturm's Constitution, on page 1009, I quote: "The Constitutional Court's decision must also be considered as a legal provision when the Constitutional Court, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act, determines how the Constitutional Court's decision is to be enforced." This is the opinion of the theory written in the commentary of the Constitution. Such an opinion was also adopted by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 26 February 2004 on page 7. It is not realistic, respectable, too, that there has been a lack of conduct in the drafting of the law, which is clearly inconsistent with the ethics of public servants and with the principles governing public procurement. It is not realistic to suggest that a larger number of external colleagues should be involved, I repeat, neither in the preparation of the technical nor system law against payment was any of the external experts involved, but both laws were prepared by the Ministry of the Interior's professional service. None of the opinion experts who later signed it received any payment. Let me finish this part with the next one. As Minister, I have been in the process of solving the problem all through a committed constitutionally coherent resolution of this issue. However, political circumstances have changed unforeseeablely due to the overexploitation of depreciated political purposes. The deleted question did not arise for the April decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003 and not for the fault of the current Minister for Home Affairs, but there has been an objectively removed political issue since 1992. The problem would have politically erupted, perhaps with greater sharpness and earlier, even if the Ministry had begun issuing decisions in April 2003. It is a 12-year-old problem of this country, which is linked in high political sensitivity to our independence. An indication of the illegality of decisions, which is chronic in this interpretation, would have been imposed by the same proponents to the government and the minister at that time and would have been politically renewed until the elections. The fact that, despite the thousands of decisions issued, there are still almost no claims for compensation, from 2000 to 2004, there are 14 and some of these, which require only no compensation for material, but only public, excuses. In 2004, there was one claim for compensation. All of this has finally shattered as an unworthy deception about high damages. Your Honor! The second charge is alleged to be damage to state property when buying a police boat. Let me begin by saying that in this chapter, the police boat is the most plausible non-truths and half-truths. Thus, the following claims made by the interpellation promoters are not true. First of all, it is not true, as it is written, that Dr. Brejc has modified a bit today, and it is written that the Minister has not signed a contract for the purchase of a police boat after the 2000 contract, at a price of 139 million. It is true that this contract was signed by the Minister, at this very price, within an option period of 160 days. As evidence of this, those who want to see this, I have here a signed contract, signed my decision on choice and also proof of the time limit within which the contract was signed. It means that the Minister signed this contract in the manner agreed with the tenderer. Indeed, it is something else that the contractor obviously never offered a contract with a price of 139 million. He didn't want to sign this contract. From the contract that Dr. Brejc had previously shown, it seems that the signature is only on the Minister's side, on the other hand, there is no signature on the other side of this signature. However, when he received a contract drawn up in the Ministry of the Interior with clauses that insure taxpayers' money, he immediately set the second one for an 18 million higher price of 157 million. Of course, the responsible minister could not agree to this because there were budgetary constraints, but also because there was blackmail at a higher price. Thus, a boat with a price of 139 million was never offered. And the absolutely incredible, utterly false and unrealistic, are the claims of damage to state property for 40 million sieves. It is true that the minister could buy a boat for 157 million, never for 139. For a new boat, the ministry paid exactly 145 million Slovenian tolars for what we actually bought. And there's also evidence here at my place that if you want to see them, I can distribute them. I have proof of termination of the contract, of failure to sign the contract of the tenderer, here I have proof, a record of payment of the boat that we bought at the amount of 145.083 thousand and not, as stated in the interpretation, 157. I suggest you look at the documents that you don't believe in words. The vessel purchased is in much better quality. It's wider, it's faster, it's built out of aluminum and not plastic, which prolongs life expectancy, and it has a machine height that's a boat that's been troubled, it doesn't, and it's still kind of the advantage of this boat. You can also see the comparison of both contracts with technical characteristics. You will see that we have bought a good boat with excellent airworthiness, which is superior to what was the subject of the invitation. Unrealistic and even populist evidence is that there is a problem of actual control at sea, as well as of the fact that the boat is constantly in repair and is useless in worse weather conditions. According to the police report, the boat, called P166 from 1.8.2003 to 24.3.2004, was on 153 patrols at sea, 465 working hours of the engine were carried out, 18 patrols were provided in cases of rescue and search at sea. At the last minute, the police rescued a citizen who was diving on his own boat. In the heat of storms, despite the strong wind and the raging sea, they were able to save more people. P166, so this boat, during the season it would be daily at sea between 8 and 12 hours, often also during the nighttime. I quote from the police report: "In addition to the regular tasks of protecting the state border at sea and other police tasks, the vessel has been used several times for the most demanding rescues at sea, under the most difficult weather conditions, and its excellent navigation and manoeuvre skills have been demonstrated." The one you believe more about is the documents. Here is a police report detailing both the operation of this boat and its manoeuvres. If you'll excuse me, I'm now coming to the third group of charges, which are linked to alleged inadequate and controversial proposals for a solution to collective supplementary pension insurance. The introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a general belief that it has contributed significantly to a more favourable public financial situation and a reduction in inflation, resulting from the resignation of public servants and part-time officials, and therefore it is not true that the creation of a single fund means the creation of a monopoly. The immediate establishment of three funds would be a mistake. This was not a suitable solution for the following reasons. Firstly, it would create an unequal position of public servants, depending on which fund they would be included or where they live, if funds, as requested, were established regionally. It would require the organisation of the personal identification of more than 140 thousand public servants, which the unions did not want to take over. Such a process would time-consumingly delay and jeopardise its implementation. From a cost perspective, the creation of several funds is less effective than the creation of one fund, due to economies of scale. The operation of several small pension funds is more expensive and less efficient than the operation of a large pension fund. In view of the above arguments, the unions immediately rejected the creation of several funds. It is quite improbable to suggest that, at the time of the adoption of the law, it was clearly intended to ensure a monopolistic position. The selection of the fund was based on completely commercial criteria. The establishment of a single fund would constitute a monopoly if there were no pension companies already present on the market that have been operating successfully for many years. 5 of the largest pension companies applied for a public invitation. All the companies mentioned had the same opportunity to acquire the business mentioned above. Although the law provides for the possibility of setting up several funds. It is specified that after three years of the Fund's operation, the Republic of Slovenia, as an employer, may establish one or more additional funds with a different investment policy. The government explicitly recommended the dispersion of assets to other operators and provided for by law as possible managers of the insurance undertaking, banks, pension companies and capital fund. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, after May 1st this year, it will be necessary to look at competition more broadly, in European dimensions. It is therefore right for Slovenia to form one single fund, at least for starters, one larger pension fund, which will make it easier to sustain international competition. It is not correct that the tendering conditions were subsequently changed, as one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, Dr FranceKrižanič, should have stated. I have here a statement by Dr. Francet Križanič, if you'd like to read it. I'll just read the first sentence. "In the annex to the interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, there has been an unloving mistake. The Commission has not changed the criteria and criteria for the selection of the manager of the closed fund for public servants in the Republic of Slovenia during the procedure" etc., very precisely how things were published and how the procedure was carried out. It is not correct that the criteria for selecting the best bidder have never been made public in the Official Journal which you have cited. The interpolation reply shall specify where the invitation to make an offer and the instructions for making an offer for the selection of the operator has been published. It is also not correct to claim that the collective supplementary pension insurance is not an additional pension insurance. It is his specific form, which is specifically regulated by this law. But specifically because it was created in a special way. It was created as a result of the cancellation of the increase in the starting salary of public servants and therefore also results in a specific selection procedure for the operator. The decision on the selection of the manager is a matter of contractual will of the social partners and is subject to a collective agreement on the establishment of a pension plan, not a procedure under public procurement law. The decision to choose was both a matter of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and representative unions. The government cannot and must not unilaterally impose on the other party to the contract of the operator, which would have occurred if a procedure had been followed for the selection of the operator under the contract law. Here I have the opinion of the Public Procurement Office. I suggest you take a look at it. It is clear that, in this case, it is not about spending public funds, but about paying public sector employees, so it is about private funds. From this, the Public Procurement Office concludes that the contracting authority is not obliged to act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act in the selection of the manager of the closed mutual pension fund. The official opinion of the institution which is in charge in this area and also the opinion of the Institute for Economic Law, the Maribor Institute. A broad opinion, I will read only one sentence at the end, says this: "Conclusions of a contract establishing a pension plan under Articles 303 and 304 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act cannot be made subject to the rules of the second paragraph of Article 2 of the Public Procurement Act. It is quite clear in the profession that the procedure was correct and that it is not a procedure under the law on public procurement. I'm moving on to the fourth charge, Your Honor. The fourth indictment is an allegedly ineffective wage system in the public sector. The criticism of the public is justifiable, and I agree with it, in all cases, in breach of the rules on salaries, especially which leads to overpayment of salaries on a case-by-case basis. Such cases need to be sanctioned most decisively and illegal payments refunded. Of course, it is a complete delusion that such excesses are the fault of the Minister of the Interior, who is not supposed to eliminate imbalances. The opposite is true. The Ministry of the Interior has acted at a systemic level, such as this. Despite numerous objections and objections, it has achieved that wages in the public sector are public and supervised, that in individual cases of excellence competent ministers or mayors can act and that those who violate the rules will face public criticism. The Ministry will insist on public, supervision, legality in public sector wages. Data for each month will be published in advance. The Ministry recommended that the Ministry should recall or replace members of the boards of public institutions that do not comply with the rules. The mayors or municipal councils are advised to ensure that the salaries paid to the directors of public institutions, where they are the founders of the municipality, do not exceed the salaries paid by the mayors. In order to harmonise collective wage agreements in the public sector, the Minister cannot be unilaterally responsible, as it is a common responsibility of the social partners, a responsibility supported by the law supported by this National Assembly. Much work has been done so far in this area and the results are as follows. The first part of the plan is already being implemented when the Public Sector Wages Scheme Act was partnered in July 2002 and then adopted following extensive and in-depth partnership efforts by the government and the vast majority of public sector unions. For the first time, a single salary system was established for officials and public servants, which is transparent and comprehensive. It eliminates a number of supplements and establishes a motivational system of progress. The negotiations on salaries following public sector activities, which led to wage imbalances in the 1990s, have been closed. In particular, I would like to point out that after 2002, after the adoption of the law, the new imbalances are no longer created. The pay system in the public sector has been completely public-funded since the adoption of the law since 2002. The basis is prepared for the gradual elimination of the imbalances identified, which need to be reconciled in partnership and to reduce the differences in basic salaries from the current 1,12,3:1:10 to 2000, so gradually, not all in one year. All sub-legal acts to be adopted and adopted by 15 May of this year shall be adopted or prepared. More than 50 coordinations on collective agreements have been carried out with the social partners so far. Extensive activities are under way to coordinate the remaining legal bases and there is a strong willingness on both the government and the trade union sides to make the law in the public sector wage system operational within a given deadline. It is also not true that the negotiations on the public sector collective agreement take place in a legal vacuum. These negotiations are also subject to the conditions under which the public sector collective agreement will be valid or binding for the public sector as a whole. What he has not done is obvious to the Minister at all, but what he will be responsible for when, if the deadline for the application of the law is exceeded, it is obvious that the interpellationers already know. Four Regulations, two Regulations and one Decision have been adopted so far. Three more regulations and one decree are being prepared for adoption and all will be adopted by 15 May. It is agreed, however, that collective negotiations and partnership agreements will be concluded in this regard from the beginning of April to 15 May. In general, the wage policy has been statistically evident in the public sector in the Republic of Slovenia since 2002, when the law was adopted in the public sector wage system. The wage policy for the period 2004, 2005 is also agreed with the social partners. Both in 2002 and 2003, gross wages per employee in the public sector grew slower than gross wages per employee in the private sector. It can certainly be argued that public sector wage policy has a significant impact on public financial stability. An agreement was signed with the social partners on 28 July 2003 on the coordination of basic salaries for 2004 and 2005, with which it was agreed a different, more European way of coordinating public sector wages, known as wage desindexation. The fifth charge is the alleged inadequacy of police complaints, respected colleagues and colleagues. I don't know why Dr. Brace didn't repeat in his appearance the accusations of this species. However, I allow the possibility that he dropped the charge because it is actually completely unworthy. It is claimed that the Minister has bypassed the amendment of the Police Act by means of a complaint rule. It would be credible for the applicants to leave this finding of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court regulation, which is responsible for this before the Minister is charged. It was precisely because of effective and democratic control over the work of the police that he took the stand for this and also achieved that a new way of resolving complaints had been adopted outside the police force. This method has already been established. The police no longer decide on the complaints after the new, but the Senate outside the police. Complaints were previously resolved within the police, which means that the same body, which is supposed to be guilty of irregularities, has also decided on the merits of the complaint. An allegation of non-compliance with Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure is made with the provisions of Article 28 of the Police Act. There is absolutely no dispute, even with the law on the police, with its novelty, it is ordered to examine the complaint first and try to resolve it in a conciliation process by a police representative. A similarly fictitious and constitutionally unverified claim of non-compliance with Article 25 of the Rules is laid down in Article 28 of the Police Act. The rapporteur does not decide on the merits of the complaint, but merely collects the necessary notices and facts. The new appeal procedure, in contrast to the previous one, introduced the principle of contradiction in the Senate decision. This means that both the complainant and the police will be invited to a Senate meeting where they can actively cooperate. The Head of the Senate is in charge of examining the complaint in a comprehensive manner and weighing it. On 27 February, the Ministry of the Interior began to deal with complaints under the new procedure. The first responses are very favourable. Over 10 conciliation procedures have already been carried out and the first Senate meetings are expected within 10 days. The sixth charge, respected, is alleged to be delays in the drafting of legislation. He didn't publicly present these charges, Dr. Brace. Nevertheless, I reject the proposals' findings on late deadlines in the drafting of the legislation. The Ministry of the Interior has been commended on the European Progress Report since it has fulfilled all the planned legal obligations under the national programme for the adoption of the European acquis before the expiry of the deadline. There is not one of our laws on the list of European Late Laws. As a percentage, you see the implementation of the programme fully disregarded that in 2000 the Ministry of the Interior, outside the commitments set out in the government programme, has further prepared seven laws which have been submitted to the National Assembly, and most of them have also been adopted by the National Assembly. I've got a review of these laws here in case anyone's interested. During the period from 1.12.2000 to 1.12.2000, i.e. in my mandate, the Ministry has drawn up 48 laws and submitted them to this National Assembly, which 41 of them have already adopted, 7 of them in the legislative procedure in Parliament. I've got a review of these laws here, the ones you want to look at. You will find that there are no delays in legislation and that the claims are completely fabricated. Almost a quarter of these laws are of a systemic nature, they are the basis of reforms of the state administration, the service system, the payroll system, local self-government and, last but not least, the establishment of conditions for the future southern border of the European Union. During the same period, 19 bilateral international agreements were signed, in the field of police cooperation, crime prevention and repression and the return of foreigners. The Ministry's work is based on a number of programming documents that are crucial to planning our work and we have all accepted them during my term of office. This is a strategy for the further development of the public sector for 2004-2007; it is a national programme for the suppression and prevention of crime in Slovenia; it is a national road safety programme; it is a resolution on migration policy; it is a starting point for the further development of local self-government; it is a Schengen implementation plan for the implementation of the future external border of the European Union and could also be listed. The seventh charge, respected, is an alleged violation of the Regulation on the organisation of organs in the composition. Dr. Brace didn't publicly present these charges either. Let me just say that there is no regulation on the organisation of organs in the composition, so it could not have been breached. The statement is likely to refer to a Regulation on bodies in the composition, which was adopted by one-and-a-half-month delay and proposed in full time. The exercise of inspection tasks in areas for which the Ministry of the Interior is responsible has not stopped in any way shall be quite smooth. The tasks of the inspection and the powers of the inspectors are laid down by law. The movement of inspectors for a good month did not lead to any consequences. The Ministry has provided premises, facilities and equipment. The Inspectorate is not concerned with the new tasks of the Ministry, but with the reallocation of tasks already carried out in the Ministry. It does not hold to the conclusion that procedures for the appointment of the Chief Inspector have not been initiated. The Minister has proposed the appointment of the Acting Chief Inspector, and has also proposed to the Official Council the implementation of the public tender procedure for the position of Chief Inspector. There are a lot of questions as to where the interpellation's proponents have been drawing on data that claim the other way around. The eighth charge is the alleged political abuse of the Slovenian Administration magazine. You heard the argument, Dr. Brejc's explanation in this regard. The claim that the Minister of the Interior has politically abused this year's first issue of the Slovenian Administration stems from a completely erroneous belief - namely that the magazine is regulated by the Minister. It's being set up by the Editorial Board. The minister is even quoted in the introduction to the magazine, which was written by the editorial board or editor. The Slovenian Administration is a registered IT journal whose publication and operation are governed by the Media Act, which highlights the independence and independence of the media. The Minister is neither the editor nor the author of the magazine's contributions. Minister, even if he wanted to, he can't have any effect on the writing of authors who perform in the magazine, otherwise he didn't try anything like that. Ministers in democratic societies do not care about "objectivity" [[Undernourished]] media, therefore it is not possible to agree with the opinion of the applicants that it should [[Quote]] "resort minister to ensure that the magazine presents the issue of deleted more objectively, not narrowly politically." How am I supposed to deal with it differently than with illegal political pressure on an independent media - this is not what this minister is doing. In an interview for the magazine, the minister represents his views. These positions are entirely in line with the views of the Government, the Constitutional Court and the President of the State. These views are, of course, contrary to the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has therefore also proposed interpretation. Expressing different views in Slovenia, where freedom of speech, opinion and political expression apply, is not a credible basis for interpretation. And there is an accusation of a seemingly imprudent situation in the area of ordering, printing personal and current documents, which, by the way, has been somehow and unreasonably added to the interpretation. I will not go into detail, but in the written reply it is precisely and comprehensively explained, but I certainly reject the allegations of imprecise situation in this area. The award of contracts which took place before the beginning of my mandate in relation to these transactions was carried out in full compliance with the laws. As Minister of the Interior, I have never announced, and I now predict that there will be no new simultaneous issuance of new passports. When entering the European Union, passports will not need to be changed. The introduction of European Union indications and biometric data on the basis of the European Union rules which must yet be adopted, which have not yet been adopted, will take place gradually with the expiry of force and not at the same time. The forms of Slovenian passports are drawn up in accordance with current international standards in the field of travel documents and are also fully in line with the acquis of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me only a final thought. None of the interpolation charges are true. It is not only that there is no evidence of claims, but unfortunately many allegations are either entirely fictitious or are not based on actual facts. This applies in particular to those points of interpretation which were subsequently, somehow by force, artificially added when a democratically questionable decision has fallen to the need for the Minister who enforces the decision of the Constitutional Court to interpel. It therefore made little sense to state an argument against the Minister's fictitious discredits. The charges at the expense of the deleted are based on a constitutionally questionable demand that the will of the Constitutional Court not be carried out, so obviously there are differences in the understanding of what democracy we want in Slovenia. A constitutional democracy based on respect for the Constitutional Court as the Supreme Ombudsman of the rule of law and human rights, or the rule of law that accords with the daily political needs, arbitrates which part of the Constitution and decisions of the Constitutional Court are to be implemented and which does not. I personally belong to the first choice, constitutional democracy and the rule of law, so we will continue and conclude by issuing decisions, as required by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Countering interpretation is therefore supporting the authority of the Constitutional Court and thus constitutional democracy and the rule of law. On the basis of all the above, honourable Members and Members, I suggest that you do not support the interpretation or decision on my discharge. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So you responded to the interpolation. We will now go to the presentation of the views of the Group. It is true for all of us that it is necessary to respect the time spent on speakers if we move away from this rule then, of course, we will come up with a situation where no one will be satisfied with the debate. That's not our purpose. We are going to present our views in the order of the groups reported. First of all, colleague Valentin Pohorec will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of DeSUS on this issue or questions from interpretation would somehow be as follows. In principle, we do not support the content of interpolation. There are eight points listed, I will not comment individually and read them so that we do not waste time. At all points of the interpretation, the Minister has given explanations, with most of the points of these explanations, our Group also agrees. It is understandable that we also differ on individual issues and will try to justify them briefly. In particular, we are at odds with point 3 of the interpolation, which gives rise to an inadequate and controversial solution to Minister Rad Bohinc in the area of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. Our parliamentary group also opposed the adoption of this law, not because the progressive introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance would be regulated and justified and become a practice, but because this voluntary collective insurance became a compulsory form because the impact of the transfer of part of the salary to supplementary pension insurance for public servants is not taken into account when providing conditions for the coordination of pensions. And this is not such a negligible part of this base, and this is how Slovenian pensioners are harmed. In doing so, we must also be realistically honest and acknowledge our recognition that the Minister, Dr Rado Bohinc, was responsible for the drafting of this law, that he also had to defend it to be transferred here before the National Assembly, but the law of the National Assembly was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And if the pensioners resent her or resent her, the government is responsible as a whole and not just Minister Rado Bohinc. Even more than the Minister of Home Affairs could be responsible for the consequences of this law to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlad Dimovski, because the negative consequences of one law on the population of more than 500 000 citizens of this country or 26% of citizens of this country should be remedied by the amendment of another relevant law. In this case, the Disability Pension Insurance Act. It is not possible to impose only one minister, which has regulated one area, but the other, which must follow, not. In point 4 on an inefficient system of public sector wages, we are also dissatisfied in our parliamentary group with a situation that shows certain inconsistencies, deviations from the normal regulated pay system, which indicates individual uses and abuses, particularly in specific areas of the public sector, as mentioned several times before - education and health. We heard that yesterday. However, we do not find such cases of derogations in the department led by Minister Rado Bohinc. Interpellation points 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, due to the time limit, I will not comment. I agree with the explanation. To the central point of interpolation, because we believe that this is the essence of everything, this is the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court on deleted and accused the Minister of Interior of violating the constitutional order, of the issue of deleted persons being used for political purposes and so on, I would like to make the following comment. This is where we are asked: Who in this country uses the issue of deleted for political purposes? Whoever prevents the adoption of the law, both technical and systemic, and one possible solution, 12 years ago a problem occurred that was erased. Who caused the erasure? What policy option? What government? What minister? Certainly not Dr. Rado Bohinc. Who launched unrealistic, unrealistic astronomical values of compensations such as 800 billion into the Slovenian public. If 10% of this were true, 80 billion, 1% of the truth would be 8 billion. Perhaps the price of one referendum or one thousandth of it will eventually be the final truth. If I were to do this comparison with a fly and an elephant or so increase the mosquito, I would be able to fly in at least Slovenian Pitatus in the image of a mosquito. These are things that have poisoned, contaminated the Slovenian public, the Slovenian electorate, the Slovenian citizen in fear of and defence against the possible economic consequences for the country and for the citizens. Those who have launched this information about the mega compensation are politically responsible for the emergence of phobia in the Slovenian public. On the basis of these numbers, which were given in this Chamber, are recorded in the magnetograms of your discussions. Interpellation is therefore not or is valid for all experts, legal experts who have agreed with their legal opinions on the way in which they have been rescued. Surely, they have the legal basis in their profession to advise that the adoption of one and another marriages is one of the possible solutions. And you continue to interfere with the adoption of law, one and the other, so that we can make a solution to the deleted. I read that he's a magician. Matvež Krivic even lacks the power to allow the wider circle of categories deleted to reach a decision and possibly to have any positive consequences in this regard. I'm going to end my speech as a position, because I'd like to leave my colleague with a few words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Now I give my word to my colleague Peterlet. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, after which he will receive the word of his colleague Janš. First of all, my colleague, Lois Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Each country has its own dignity and its own legal order. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is at the top of this order. Where a national assembly is concerned with the relationship of the institution to legality, the first criterion is the relationship to the Constitution. The problem of Minister Bohinec and others, who have led us to another plebiscite for Slovenia by their conduct, begins with a lack of respect for the Constitution. Minister Bohinc, before him and before the Constitutional Court, forgot the fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the joint meeting of all the congregations on 25.6.1991. Article 1 of the Charter states: The Republic of Slovenia is an independent and independent state. The Constitution of the SFRJ shall expire on the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, 25.6.1991 has created a new country here, with all the consequences resulting from this. The new authorities were aware of issues related to the inhabitants of the former Yugoslav republics. She offered them the opportunity to acquire citizenship quickly, easily and cheaply. Quickly, I mean a short period or time limit on the acquisition of citizenship for six months and eight months on permanent residence. It was clear that those who did not want Slovenian citizenship would have to formalize their status as foreigners. Many have done so, some have not. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction begins between those who, on the basis of the Mayan declaration, wanted Slovenia alone and those who wanted Yugoslavia on the basis of the so-called Charter. Those who, in the case of the so-called deleted ones, still maligned the secession and self - conquerors, after a clear expression of the people’s plebiscite will in the then Slovenian congregation opposed the key laws that allowed for self - conquest. Many advocates of the law, which is the subject of Sunday's referendum, were not seen on the side of Slovenian independence. When we have experienced positive assessments of our relationship with the NGOs by the European Community, the Council of Europe and the United Nations, when Mr Krivic, the former Constitutional Court Judge, as rapporteur in this case, spent almost four years trying to determine what is right and what is wrong, these people are preaching human rights to us and suing Slovenia around the world. I would like to draw attention to something that is not known or known in public, especially in this own house. I would like to say a few words about the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, which was adopted on the same 25.6. 1991 and which, in our opinion, the Constitutional Court - of course, we can have as Democrats - has not taken into account. 13. The article was very clear and is now very clear and I will read it: "The citizens of other republics who, on the day of plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1990, have registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and live here in fact, until the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia or until the expiry of the terms of Article 81 of the Aliens Act are equal in rights and duties with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, except in the cases referred to in Article 16 of this Act." So on this basis, which was not written and hidden in this constitution, but was clear throughout and outside Slovenia, it is clearly written. And here's that article in the Foreigners Act that has a constitutional basis and no one has the right to change it, nor does the Constitutional Court. It was clearly stated here when rights would be extinguished for those who would not want to regulate their formal status in Slovenia, and unfortunately this was not taken into account. In this respect, Nova Slovenija agrees with the position of former Constitutional Judge Jožet Jerovška, who is in a legitimate question about what rights are, clearly stated recently: "The competent state administration has therefore legally and legally concluded that those who have not asked for the regulation of their civil or foreign status do not wish to live in our country or are not here at all. It was necessary to regulate the register of the permanent population accordingly. The State should even warn them that they cannot live with irregular status here because no regulated country can suffer people who do not want to be neither mice nor without any obligation to it. The whole range of these people behaved arrogantly towards the country and its institutions and tacted as to whether the story of Slovenia as a country would become a reality. In order for the Constitutional Court to make "exterminated" it required more illegal and unconstitutional manoeuvres. First, to determine the unconstitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is part of the constitutional law and is not in the judgment of the Constitutional Court." This is where I end up with a quote. I think it was clear enough what didn't happen, what wasn't taken into account. I would like to say that, when Nova Slovenija considers that the Constitutional Court has failed to take into account our own constitutional basis, that Nova Slovenije has complied with the Constitutional Court, respected its decision, as it respected and respected its decision, which it ordered the National Assembly to impose on the people's will, as it proved at the referendum on electoral systems. At that time, we saw today’s advocates of the consistency of taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the other hand. Once, once again. In a completely democratic way, Nova Slovenija, not the only one, objected to the Government's understanding of the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Its understanding, which it has also adopted with the adoption of laws in the National Assembly, could mean that even those who have more than just stood on the other side would, for example, receive the so-called rights back in the former Yugoslav People's Army's clothes and thus receive compensation to fight Slovenia, so that they will still be rewarded. This was opposed and also opposed by those other citizens and citizens who have settled their status according to the options offered and have become citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We find it unheard of that the government did not wish to present the financial consequences of such a law in such an approach, and we remain convinced that the leadership of the National Assembly has unlawfully placed it on the agenda because the rules of business have not been complied with. Our rules clearly require that when proposing a law, clean wine should also be poured as regards finances. What such misappropriation means, we understood and all the Slovenian public, when someone in Koroška mentioned the claim for compensation in the high millions and justifiably aroused the public, including those who have regulated their status in accordance with the legal order of the new state of Slovenia. We used the only democratic options available and requested a referendum. Then the farce continued. It was incomprehensible that you were late to report the decisions of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court, which dealt with the matter despite the deadline. When it became clear that the request for a referendum would have to be respected and implemented, the government changed its position. She began to say that her own marriage was bad, unnecessary, and that we would not decide anything at the referendum. Then things started to get even more unheard of. The government, the opposition, tried to talk us out of signatures and, however, agreed on a law that would also take into account the opposition's proposals on individual cases and financial matters. They talked about the project so that they could change the rules of the game back and allow them to vote once again on the same law that ended the procedure. Let anyone who can understand this be totally unimaginable to the Democrats. The government became entangled and climbed in all the vast majority of the voices it had at its disposal and, of course, blamed the opposition. It's worse than that. The Minister of Bohinc started without a legal basis, past the Constitution, which clearly states the following: Individual acts and acts of public authorities, local authorities and public authorities must be based on law or legal regulation. So he began to issue decisions, decisions without determining all the circumstances. You win first, and then maybe we can see if you've been excused. The same minister spoke differently before. In addition, a series of expert advisors who advised him not to issue decisions without a legal basis. Once, once again. Whether or not, as in health care or in the event of the relief of the distress of Mr Slaven Letica. At the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, [[What are you talking about?]] I am talking about the facts that our media have written about, and about which even the passengers of a person I have not named directly have distanced themselves. At the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, Dr. Rado Bohinc claimed that only the law could establish legal grounds for obtaining the status of so-called deleted. For this reason, he was vehemently in favour of the adoption of the so-called technical law, on which a referendum would be held on Sunday. Now he himself has lied to the arguments at the time, supported by prominent lawyers and ordered his officials to issue decisions, even though there is no legal basis for such conduct. It's about usurping the legislator's powers. This is contrary to the constitutional position of the division of power. However, it is particularly dangerous if such behaviour is afforded by an internal minister, who also has the most powerful operational force in Slovenia. The dispute on deleted saddles is reduced to a fundamental question: Whether former Yugoslavs who lived in Slovenia at the time of Slovenia's independence are granted permanent residence in Slovenia for the entire time since the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, or whether this status is granted to them only from the day after Slovenia's independence, when they have requested the new state to grant them the right to permanent residence. It is a question of continuity with the previous country and the previous regime. Dr Bohinc, who was also one of the last ministers of the former Yugoslavia, is trying to prove on the case deleted that there was no interruption in Slovenia with previous regulation. What was concluded in Yugoslavia is also true in the new country in Slovenia, that every citizen of the former Yugoslavia who lived in Slovenia at the time when Yugoslavia was still part of, therefore, without applying for Slovenian authorities, has the right to permanent residence in Slovenia, even if he did not take Slovenian citizenship. We in Novi Slovenija claim that Slovenia is a new quality, which has no legal connection with the previous regime and the previous Yugoslavia, and that the right to permanent residence in Slovenia has only the foreigner who demanded it from the Slovenian authorities after the deadline I have already talked about. This is a matter of principle. In fact, it is a revision of Slovenian independence, as well as during the 1991 self-sustainment war. It is not about any xenophobia or human rights at all, but about taking into account the fundamental facts and the truth. Any of the deleted could obtain permanent residence in Slovenia at any time, only if he had recognised the Slovenian authorities and asked the competent office to recognise this possibility. That is why we have initiated an interpretation against the Interior Minister, who decides what is right and what is wrong in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the story of so-called deleted shows a clear and growing nature of political accounting with those who have achieved independence, rather than the care of justice. The first democratic Slovenian government and the first democratic Slovenian Parliament are not to blame if part of the former Yugoslav republics in Slovenia did not want to regulate their formal status despite the extended deadline. Secondly, if the Republic of Slovenia has prevented anyone from regulating his status or if someone in difficult circumstances could not collect all the necessary documents. First cases are subject to law-based justice; second cases are subject to solidarity. If injustices have occurred, they must be corrected in accordance with our laws and constitution - if they are and where they are. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will not decide on the small or even personal matters of the minister we are interpreting. Today and Sunday, we will fight for Slovenia, for its dignity and respect for its constitutional order, including the aforementioned Article 13, and for its future as well. We will therefore support the interpellation against the minister and vote clearly on Sunday in the referendum against the law forced by the government in the National Assembly and itself says it sucks. For New Slovenia, this will be another plebiscite for Slovenia. On a flowery Sunday, respected, in 1990 we elected freely in Slovenia for the first time since World War II. We voted in such a way that Slovenia itself could be created. On the flower Sunday 2004, fourteen years later, we will vote for it again - New Slovenia against the law and thus for Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. A colleague Janez Janša, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has the floor, followed by his colleague Potrč. First of all, colleague Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have interpellation candidates and those of the parliamentary group that we support can work. For we can prove to the minister that he did wrong, unlawfully, with his own words, not from 15 years ago, but from last year and this year. The claim that the Minister merely respects the Constitution, that he is doing so all the time, that he is acting in accordance with the law and so on, and that it is shocking that the intervention put in is simply not true. Even if it were to maintain its claim and does not claim to comply with the Constitution at this point in time, it could then be said, on the basis of this claim, that it has not acted in accordance with the Constitution so far. Did Mr. Minister violate the Constitution when he did not issue the decisions, but was the Constitutional Court's decision already in force, or was it violated now that the decisions were issued without a legal basis? So, in any case, we have a minister against whom we have filed an interpellation when his illegal conduct has been proven. Just decide now when he was doing the right thing, or when he did not issue decisions, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, or now that he issues them without a legal basis. It is not possible to agree to the thesis that in both cases he acted lawfully because at the same time we had everything through the same constitution and the same laws. Thus, the Minister himself agreed to act in violation of the Constitution and the laws until he issued the decisions today, as well as in writing. That is why, of course, we did not interpret it, but in any case, it was illegal to interpret it. If you support this action, then you will vote that ministers in this country can act contrary to the law. Nor does it support the Minister's claim that those of us who have submitted an intervention have requested that the government submit a law, or even two laws. The Slovenian Democratic Party has formulated its position on this issue after the government has submitted the so-called technical law. I personally presented him for this speaker, and we said that the government's approach to solving this problem, as discussed by the Constitutional Court's decision, is not true because in its proposal the government has mixed the issue with a smaller number of justified cases and has proposed a law that does not allow selection. That was our position at the beginning and throughout and we formed it after you, Mr Minister, proposed the law. It is true, however, that civil society reacted in the spring of last year with a well-known statement pointing to unacceptable behaviour in the event of decisions being made without law. However, this was not the position of those who submitted the interpretation because we were waiting for the government to come with a solution that would be consistent, allowing selection. During all the time we have been waiting for your decision, there has been no initiative, no proposal, no meeting to find a solution, compromise or any way to settle this issue. No initiative towards the opposition, no proposal, although it is a question that could be judged in advance to be useful. This is because, in 2001, when the first law was passed on the basis of an old decision by the Constitutional Court, we reached such an agreement. And there was no problem. This time it was arrogant, on the first ball, if you say what you say, if you do, we'll vote you over. And you did that, and you brought the matter where we are. Today, without a legal basis, contrary to what you have said so far, you are issuing decisions. Dear Minister Bohinec, at the 31st ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, on 25 November 2003, you have repeatedly stated: "It is necessary to pass a law in order to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. 10 experts in constitutional and administrative law have signed an opinion that the law must be adopted in order to implement the 8th point of that constitutional provision. It is not precisely those who claim that administrative decisions are permitted to be issued directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court." Your words, Mr. Secretary of State last November. Again, you said, "Those who claim that administrative decisions are permissible to be issued directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court are not." So in November, today, you act in accordance with the Constitution and that those who claim what you said in November are wrong. Now it's completely illogical. It would be fair to at least admit in this opening act that you were wrong at the time or that you are wrong today. You further stated at the same meeting last November: "One more thing about compensation claims. The technical law does not provide any legal basis for the possible enforcement of claims for damages. I don't know, without decisions issued under the law, you now issue them outside the law, no one can go to court and file a claim for damages. That is also true today's position of the Liberal Democracy on the Internal Policy Committee, where they have clearly advocated that compensation be paid. And they tell us that we are trying to prevent this in the referendum initiative, and this is contrary to what the President of their party has repeatedly stated publicly that there will be no compensation. It's just another seduction. Then, on the exposition of the claim: "There are also allegations that under the technical law they will be granted a residence permit for the return of those who did not stay in Slovenia or who have not already proved this in the administrative procedure. We have proved several times that it was not necessary for a person who had obtained a status under a law on foreigners that provided for a three - year stay if he had requested it in 1996 to prove that he had stayed forever. And it's clearly and loudly written in the law. That the people to whom you make decisions do not reside in Slovenia are also proof of these decisions that are coming back to you, Mr Minister. You're here, I've listened very carefully before, you've given me information that you've been trying to cloud this problem that's come to you and that we've been warning you about. We have made it very clear that this issue, from what has been raised, has motivated many who have never lived in Slovenia since 1992, who went with the Ljubljana Corps to Banja Luka or from the Maribor Corps to Novi Sad to consider whether they could draw anything from it. And a lot of people have reported a fictitious residence in Slovenia in one way or another and have arranged the status of a foreigner with temporary or permanent residence. You don't check it out anyway. Anyone can do it. Decisions are now coming to Koses, to addresses where people don't live because they're in Banja Luka. Even though you have these addresses, and even though you've been very careful, as I've been informed, it wouldn't have happened. In that sense, you checked as far as you could, things. But still. On 14 March, 900 decisions were sent. About 450 you knew what happened to them, the rest were waiting, so there were no fevers, you didn't know what happened to them. On 14 March, 900 were dispatched, so this was reliably recorded, some over 300 decisions, and 133 were returned, saying that the addressee was not known that he was not taken over. So it's about a third on March 14th. We have asked you, for a deadline that has already passed, a question from the Member States to give us accurate information on what is going on with these decisions. We didn't get any answers. Today, you said something in your reply to this box, where you also used the term that 190 or almost 200 decisions were questionablely served. That is to say, these 133 and probably some of the other fevers or decisions that have returned have not been referred to as unmarried but as questionablely engaged. I listened carefully to what you were going to say, and you invented this term. What's questionable is the heat, I don't know. Apparently, after I showed these numbers on TV, and these numbers hold a hundred percent for that date, apparently the decisions were going somewhere again, or they were put in empty boxes - and that's questionablely served. So it's not hot. The contested decision is not a given decision to make it clear to each other. The legal procedure does not know the contested decision - it is served or served to you, you are properly invited or you are not properly invited. So it is perfectly clear that decisions are issued to people who do not live in Slovenia, who have not lived from 1992 to today continuously and still do not live today. And these people will also be allowed to file claims for damages. And the money that will be paid will go to Banja Luka or New Sad or anywhere. And that's nothing to worry about. You are concerned about the costs of the referendum, with which we try to prevent this, which we hear every day, even though these costs will be paid to people in Slovenia. Well, and, Mr. Minister, on the question of one of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, you said the following: [[This was on 10 February, at the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on request, as well as many other members of the government coalition]] "For another thing, I would like to make it very clear that it is not expected that, on the basis of an agreement on succession and in this regard, decisions issued, on the basis of the laws we are preparing, or directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, anyone could obtain any right to a pension for the purpose of obtaining a permanent residence or finding a permanent residence back." Today, we can say that this claim is not true because, under the success agreement, the former SFRJ's successor is responsible for the payment of pensions, in which those who have received these pensions from these federal funds are permanently resident. And for those of you who give them decisions back, they will be able to prove that they stayed in Slovenia, even though they did not, and will be entitled to the payment of pensions in Slovenia. And these pensions in Slovenia are ten times higher than elsewhere, they will be excused for differences in return, up to payments and here we can talk about tens of billions. Why don't you just do a little math on how much it weighs? And what you said here just doesn't hold. I think it is also very important that we ask ourselves about the Minister's motives, why he did so for a while, even very vehemently, and argued that decisions should not be made without law. In some ways, legal representatives and other members of the so-called erased society even referred to him as an opponent, and then suddenly he changed his mind and today he claims something completely different. I think that last year's conduct was largely due to fear that perhaps the Minister himself might have asked whether he might not be responsible for any case of so-called deleted persons, or whether he did not, by his then conduct and political activity, encourage anyone not to decide on Slovenian citizenship, that he did not believe in Slovenia alone, and today is counted as being erased for this. During the period of Slovenian independence, the Minister established and led the main committee of the so-called Social Democratic Union of Slovenia, which was skeptical of Slovenian independence, which he established with good intentions. I'll read a quote that explains a lot. When asked why it was not easy to go to renovators who were also supposed to be social-democratic, he said: "The reconstruction party will be continuously staffed, ideologically and otherwise burdened with its history. Over time, this party will gather those layers of people who are still insisting on extreme positions and will never accept the apparent collapse of the communist project." Today the minister is alone in this party, for which he said there will always be a layer in it that will insist on extreme positions. Clearly, he also changed his mind about this. But the important thing is that this party has taken a stand against the Slovenian army. The Minister called for the so-called militarisation of Slovenia, of course not against JLA, but against the training of the first generation of Slovenian soldiers and warned that Demos was leading Slovenia into international isolation. It is very interesting that the president of this party - he was another man, and the chairman of the Main Committee - was Dr. Rastko Močnik, who was doing the same thing before the plebiscite as independent Slovenia in 1990 as the current government and the minister, declares the referendum unnecessary. The party of Mr Bohinc or later president of this party, at the time the initiative committee, issued in Del a call against participation in the plebiscite for Slovenia alone, where there was a very similar argument, as today is produced against the Sunday referendum, plebiscite is not needed, we will not decide anything, they said. After 14 years, the same arguments for a similar thing. That is how I agree with Mr Peterlet, this time the issue of Slovenian statehood, independence, matters that have not been resolved. Here's the motive for the Minister's double conduct. First of all, fear that these things will come on the day when his ministerial position, of course another extreme, was being questioned, issuing decisions without law that he had previously claimed should not be issued. And once again, I would like to conclude an additional argument by the applicants to this point. The Minister acted unconstitutionally and unlawfully, either last year or this year. Just decide what you choose. However, that he acted unlawfully is true in any case. Or as we claim, or as you claim. In any case, he acted unlawfully. And that will make it very difficult for you to vote against interpretation if you want to be correct. The next item is this tragic police navy in Slovenia. I think there are some other Members in this Chamber who recall these 1992 discussions when even the commissions investigating the purchase of a police boat were set up. At that time, the Ministry of the Interior at, think, Jadran Sežana, the company, if you say so in a journalistic manner, the province is very close to Mr Bohinc's party, according to the people who run the company, according to the people who participated in the business, according to the people who showed up in those transactions in 1992 and about which you have all the files of the newspaper articles. At that time, a so-called superstandard boat was also purchased, from a manufacturer who had never built a boat and a boat that had broken down before it was even taken over, and then it broke down all those years. At a time when the Slovenian police would most need a capable vessel because of these incidents in the Gulf of Piran, the boat was damaged and they drove there by a ship of the port of the captain or by a rubber boat. And Croatian naval police were laughing when they had to wait for them to sign the minutes together. And this story was obviously not instructive enough. Mr Bohinc, at the same ministry a few years later, after a number of announced tenders, after the tenderer had already been selected, when he had to sign a contract, buy a boat, simply cut off the existing relations, produced instead of a contract that was established under the tendering conditions and was part of the tendering conditions, a contract of his own, completely contrary to the procedure and thus again achieved that a new police boat was also purchased at the Adriatic Sežan, again with a manufacturer who does not have any references to the delivery of serious police vessels. Mr. Minister, every housewife knows that if one day a fence on the market sells rotten potatoes, the next time she buys it, she won't buy any more potatoes. And it's a couple hundred tolars. The Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, went to the same provider, who once sold him a fully proven disgraceful police boat, which was more in repair than in use, to buy a new boat. Although a better bidder has already been chosen. Is it really possible to justify this by procedure, by what the minister used to say? I don't believe it. But the thing was not comical, it was tragic when we waited for this new boat to arrive and when it was reported that it could not come because of the bad weather. And the story repeats itself. And no one, no one answers for it, even though it should be logical. Otherwise, claims for compensation are filed. The Ministry sues both tenderers, one seriously less serious one. In any case, the minister has harmed those who pay taxes for a few ten million because of price differences. If they are challenged, it is likely that, on the one hand, they will have to add at least 20 million more and interest and costs. And he still says everything was fine. Mr. Secretary, it wasn't all right. It wasn't all right. And besides, everything wasn't right, it was stupid. I think this is also a huge underestimation of the Slovenian public. He thinks we've all forgotten the years when we were worried about whether or not an old police boat would take him. But no, you went on and bought a similar thing. The next observation that you have practically at least rejected here, also in a written reply, is a clear indication of the politicisation, the attempt to politicize the state administration. You said about the magazine Slovenian Administration that this is an independent magazine, an independent newspaper, where independent journalists pay for supposed readers, I don't know who. But, Mr. Minister, here in the column is the address of the publisher, Ministry of the Interior, Stefanova ulica, 2501 Ljubljana. For the first time, I hear that an independent newspaper is being published at the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief, I apologize, is your employee, the employee in your office, and we pay the person who pays the taxes. So it's not independent, it's part of the government, the part that you tell him directly what to do, because it's in your office. In this magazine, the responsible editor, who is employed in your office, wrote an editorial, which is difficult to say is not an attempt to politicise the public administration and also to abuse public funds because they pay for this magazine. First of all, the editor in this magazine that you're publishing is telling all Slovenians that they're impatient. He says, "I was obviously wrong about my own people, because the international public research already shows that we Slovenians are among the three most impatient nations." And then he says, "The government that tries to correct these errors in relation to the deleted works positively, and the political points are collected by those who do not tolerate others, different or otherwise speaking and thinking." Thus, a magazine issued by the Ministry of the Interior, which is received by all offices, by the entire state administration, accuses the parliamentary opposition, which opposes the Government's proposals, which is perfectly legitimate in every country, so that we cannot bear others, different or otherwise speaking and thinking with us. This is actually an accusation, perhaps through the qualification of politicisation. This is an offensive accusation - in the press of the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia, a newspaper based on the Ministry, in a newspaper where the minister is on each side, not only by word but also by image, and which says it is an independent magazine. I mean, it's really nice to find out what the definition of independent journalism by the Ministry of the Interior is, that's about how we imagine this independence. But if that were all, it might be less important, but this politicization goes on. The Ministry of the Interior, led by Mr Rado Bohinc, also has its own cabinet and this cabinet has its own website. In recent weeks and months, the official website of the Office of the Ministry of the Interior contains the exclusive political disqualifications of the parliamentary opposition. For example, here is the whole treaty, which, first of all, bears the title "On the Ethics of Janšev's Political Methods", where in Mr Bovcon's contribution, published at the summit, there are many political disqualifications with which I have disputed in the newspaper, where this or something similar has been published. However, I did not have the opportunity to politicise with an article on the Ministry of the Interior's website, which is clearly quite a visited website, according to the figures, especially by employees in this ministry, which is normal. And that, Mr. Minister, is an eccentric politicisation of the state administration, so someone has to answer. The next thing she has experienced is just a formal answer, if everything is okay, and if there is a mistake we are correcting, the salaries in the public sector, for which you are largely responsible. Here the government is pervasive, we have talked about it yesterday, it is not even worth repeating, but here the simple government is pervasive, and in all that time it has not been reduced, but it has increased. All correct or at least approximately the right proportion in the public sector, as regards wage policy, has fallen apart. We have leaders of institutions in the public sector who have two or three employees and receive multimillion-dollar salaries that exceed, say, three times the salary of the Rector of the University of Ljubljana or successful researchers at the Institute, successful doctors and so on and nothing is done. When you look at why, it is usually found that it is people who have been in the government structure and have the same salary as some kind of reward as customerism. We have recently read why one of the attempts to pay in the public sector has failed. I do not think that much of the Slovenian public, which does not read the Finance Officer, could read it, so I will repeat it briefly. An interview was published with the former director of the Ljubljana Bank, Mr Voljc, who, in the course of the interview, was free of charge because he had already known that he would be replaced or had already been, explained how they had avoided a decision of the government years ago that ordered directors in these public institutions or public enterprises that are majority owned by the State to have no higher wages than the Minister of State. He says in this interview that they had a major problem, because this would mean that salaries in the administration - then completely state-owned - banks have to reduce substantially and have asked for advice from the authorities. Mr Voljč was visited by the then Vice-President of the Government, Mr Rob, who is now Prime Minister, and Mr Bavcar, both Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister - at least I think that was the case at the time - and they discussed what to do. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Rop and Mr Bavčar, advised Mr Voljč to find themselves formally satisfied with the government's decision and to pay so many rewards to compensate for this reduction in wages. And they did. You see, this is why there is no order in public sector wages, because you, Mr Minister, who is in charge of a large part of this here, have done nothing in all this time, because you probably couldn't because of the political constellations, and you haven't even tried. If we made proposals to the public, we would certainly get a lot of support so that certain things could move. Then there is another problem, which has been mentioned in the interpretation without any mention, that you have devoted quite some time to it in the answer, even today, which is the price of Slovenian passports. The cost, the money we pay everyone who wants a Slovenian passport, is too high. From the difference between the actual cost of making one passport and the price that you, the distinguished Minister and your ministry pay, two private companies, this difference goes into billions. The private company Mirage from New City, where people are known for their political provinces, is a government - I will not explain, generates strong profits on Slovenian travel documents because we pay them too much. And there are stories about the purchase of helicopters - the same differences -, luxury, investment on the basis of funds collected on the basis of an unjustified high price of Slovenian passports. You say everything's fine. It is true that there were invitations to tender or that there were choices because, as far as I know, there were no invitations to tender, the choice was made on the basis of a certain point in the Regulation, which states that, in the case of State security, it is the choice of tenderers. It is true that these procedures were initiated earlier, but it is true that most of this money went through during your term of office. As has already been said, it is billions that are unjustifiably flowing from what we are paying for too expensive passports into private pockets. Now they're talking about who's still in the government ranks, there's very concrete data and signatures. If you want, we can serve with it. We ask you why you didn't make any revisions because every mortal knows that passports are too expensive and try to save some of the public money. Even in the media it is occurring - no reactions from your side. In short, at least four points have proved interpolation. In point 1, it is demonstrated by the words of the Minister himself at last November's meeting, and I think that there will be no major problems in voting if we want to protect the rule of law and the rule of law in this country. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of the interpolation. Hereinafter, we will present some additional evidence as to why this is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The content of the charges against Minister Rad Bohinec is entirely fabricated and unfounded. Some of the statements taken out of context, some half-truths and a lot of lies, and even though the ones spoken for this box, cannot be a reason for interpretation without evidence. They can be if they want to build relationships in the country. However, if the opposition really wanted to respect the truth, then after all the reasoned response, it would have had the opportunity to collect and see evidence, partly willing to look at it, but mostly not because it is not interested in the evidence, it found that the interpretation was unjustifiable. Its only objective is to create an atmosphere of emergency, to accuse another, to make it difficult for the members of the National Assembly and the Coalition. Citizens and citizens would like to regulate the situation, the normal functioning of Parliament, and if I hear anything among the people, I hear, let them talk about problems, talk, solve problems, not accuse themselves as if the world is going to fail. Most of political life is now also often based on demands made by the opposition, aimed primarily at mutual accusations, creating an atmosphere of emergency, fully evaluating everything that has been achieved, and so on. Dr. Rado Bohinc is a minister who, in his term of office, carried out tasks that had been unregulated for a decade before that. They have been dealt with in a responsible and thorough manner, taking into account international experience and, above all, the local professional public and the interests of the affected. Its portfolio is one of those that has proposed and to a good extent has also regulated most of the system's systems. He has proposed all necessary legislation in the most difficult and most conflicted areas, and has successfully led preparations for Slovenia's integration into the European Union, including the enforcement of the Schengen border. During his term of office, and I do not claim to be thanks to him, public order and peace have been ensured, and progress has also been made in respect for human rights by the repressive authorities, as well as in their greater effectiveness. This is acknowledged even by many signatories to the interpolation or acknowledged when such legislation was adopted and when the decision was taken, and today it is forgotten. I will not, as was yesterday's speech, only stress the circumstances in which the Minister worked and what he did to say a few words about certain points of interpretation. Until today, I would also like to think that the issue of deleted may be one of the points of interpolation and that overestimation, that all others have been added only to create a better impression, the foundation of the whole is erased. Today, after the introductory explanations of the gentlemen who advocated the interpretation and representatives of their parliamentary groups, I note that the issue of the deleted is one, the only, the most important, far-reaching reason why, in your opinion, the Minister had to be interpreted. In doing so, it is right to say the following. The issue of deleted is indisputably due to the unlawful conduct of the parties requiring interpretation, from a time when, like Demos, they were also - not the only, but also in power. This is the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. If and when you accidentally put something in the Constitutional Court because sometimes you give, but many times you don't, then you'll have to admit it. Minister Bohinc was in charge of resolving this illegality; he was in charge of several Constitutional Court rulings. He tried to do so without politicisation, professionally justified, with particular care for respect for the rule of law and for the elimination of violations of human rights, including for the material obligations of the State and its international reputation. The only thing he can be read about in this activity is that he did what was right and believed that others would. However, in this latter, unfortunately, he was wrong, others were not for finding solutions, but for the problem to be politicized to the point that we are now standing up when we cannot solve it, even though it is already within our mandate a year from the decision of the Constitutional Court which imposed it on us. The opposition, in fact, has created an atmosphere against and against the Constitutional Court’s decision, where it does not want to solve the problem. Even today, even in this session, talk about things that are simply not true, mean half-truths, mean deception, mean lies. I'll bring up some of these facts. It was said that in his statements concerning the preparation and necessity of the adoption of the technical law or the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, the Minister had different views. I participated in the majority or in the vast majority of all these interviews, he was also warned in the framework of the coalition, mainly by the Slovenian People's Party, that it is impossible to systematically settle the issue in a short time and that it must be addressed in a different way. He therefore consulted a number of legal experts and received an opinion that we should adopt a so-called technical law. There was a lot of debate about this, and a common definition was adopted at that time that it made no sense and it would be bad to ignore the opinion of the tens on a politically sensitive issue, to say to the professors of law, on the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court at that point was not indisputably clear at that time. A few months ago, however, we were given a decision which stated that it was necessary and urgent that the 8th point should be implemented regardless of what and how the technical law would happen, otherwise this means a failure to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and the continued maintenance of the non-constitutional situation. And on that basis, the minister acted. Why don't you tell the whole story? Why do you tear out certain things and actually say the truth? To speak of the constitutional court ignoring that it did not take into account that it did not take into account the constitutional law on the implementation of the basic instrument, is simply an impossibility. I allow the possibility that there is also ignorance; only then, unfortunately, there is a fault in the Member who speaks so vehemently that he has not been consulted. In the decision of the Constitutional Court, U2104 of 26 February 2004, points 19 and 20 make clear the answer to Mr Jerovska's arguments, as to how it is necessary to understand Article 13 of the Constitutional Law or the Law on the Implementation of the Basic Charter. It's clear. It can only be understood that, after the six-month period, those who did not apply for citizenship could not lose the rights they had, not even their permanent residence. And perhaps the decision may be wrong, but formally true, it was formally adopted and above all held: the Constitutional Court took this into account. And, gentlemen, at least don't say he's not here and don't lie to citizens and citizens before this pay phone! We can't know, but then let's be modest and not say that. I ask those who claim to read these two points of the Constitutional Court's decision. To talk today about what happened immediately before the conquest is also a cruel fabrication of truth. I've said this a few times before, but it seems like I have to say it again, I apologize to those who have remembered it, and I say that I speak for those who keep repeating the truth. On 6 December 1990 - the agreement of all political parties then represented in the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was published in the Rapporteur. Not all of them will be too long, but a lot of these parties - including the United List of Social Democrats, then called the Party of Democratic Reconstruction - wrote: "The independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia is a fundamental political direction and the goal of all political parties. Second. By achieving this goal, the most democratic form is expressed by the people's will to plebiscite." Who was opposed to the referendum, but if we all signed that this was the most democratic form? Point 9 stated that all members of the other Yugoslav nations, including members of the other Yugoslav nations, will be granted equal status and equal rights because of plebiscite and will share our destiny - it is written literally. And it is written in the 10th paragraph: "Plebiscitar definition for the independent and independent state of Slovenia can only be an integral act of the Slovenian people, the Italian and Hungarian national communities and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so it cannot and does not have the right to carry out and perform it alone by one party or coalition, and therefore the positive outcome of the plebiscite cannot be attributed to any individual party or coalition." What can I tell you? The ones who signed this are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the Today they claim something else - that they alone and the only ones had the credit for the independence and for the plebiscite, where indeed, the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, as well as Italians, Hungarians and other members of the other nationalities, have decided for independent and independent Slovenia. I mean, it's hard to talk about it this way, just to change the truth and expect only them to know something, but people really don't know a lot and then deceive them, it's just not right. So let's leave this point and move on. The charges related to the acquisition of a police boat are based, as the minister said, on evidentiary facts. There are documents that reject each of these claims. The Minister prevented the conclusion of a harmful contract for the purchase of a police boat by his careful conduct and ensured, on the basis of a new call for tender, that 12 million tolars had been saved to the State. Today, however, the opposition hopes to claim that he lost 40 of them. There is no evidence for this, but the argument is enough for them, evidence because the situation is reversed and simply not. At the time of the adoption of the pension reform, the supplementary collective pension scheme was one of the three pillars of the new system. In the wake of the pension reform, the current opposition stressed that this is insufficient precisely because it places too much emphasis only on compulsory work-related pension insurance. Now that almost half a million citizens and citizens have introduced voluntary collective pension insurance, this is not right. While we all know that this decision has been taken in agreement with the vast majority of unions, that no unilateral decision can therefore be attributed to the Minister, nor to us in the national council that we have adopted the law; that this has contributed to the reduction of inflation and that this pension reform will also increase the social security of public servants upon retirement. Indeed, as follows, the salary system is not only in the public sector, even in the private sector, unregulated, unregulated for a long time and the wage ratios are unsupervised. Many times there is no logic or excuse for differences or for equal pay, but especially for very high wages. But no minister has done enough or done anything in this area so far. For 12 years, there was an anarchy in which we could compete from individual branches, when someone would succeed and change relationships with their demands. All of this caused unacceptable differences and the Minister, who created at least a systemic basis for this to begin to regulate, which also required that wages be public and that unacceptable wages begin to change through the public, is therefore experiencing interpolation. I don't remember anyone from the past being particularly critical of this. One of the main topics we discussed in recent amendments to the Police Act was the issue of resolving complaints against police procedures. There are some of us from the Internal Policy Committee, how and how we discussed the need to ensure a greater role of civil society in dealing with police behaviour. And we know that civil society has also succeeded with our assistance from Members and Members, but we know that this has also worked with the Benevolence and the readiness of the Ministry. And today to say that it's bad and that it's wrong is simply not true. Therefore, there are sufficient arguments to argue that the essential content of the interpolation is fictional and unfounded. Regrettably, its signatories have proved many times that they do not want to be objective and solve problems of inventing things, telling half-truths and making unrealistic designs, and so does this time. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, therefore, with a written answer and today's performance, he denied all senseless allegations of interpretation, and he put many of them directly into a lie. It is clear, therefore, that it is neither a fair assessment of the work nor a solution to the problems that exist in the work of the Ministry of the Interior. Their aim is to discredit the minister, destabilize the government and the government coalition, make the tasks of the government and the national assembly difficult. Therefore, of course, we will not support the interpolation; we will support Minister Bohinc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian People's Party and in recent days in particular in the parliamentary group, we have examined all nine elements of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Dr Bohinca. The department that runs it is very extensive, in our opinion, it has responded successfully to some of the findings, and in the parliamentary group we have focused on the first observation that speaks of the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, acted in the event of the execution of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court on the issue of deleted in violation of the rule of law of our country. In his actions, we have found reasons for our support for the interpretation. The Constitution is the highest act. The Constitution shall be adopted by the National Assembly. Members are directly elected from citizens and citizens and ministers and the Constitutional Court are directly elected. The laws and regulations shall be adopted by the legislative authority. The executive enforces it, the courts judge the rules, and they cannot accept them. In the Constitution, the adoption of laws or legal provisions is not mentioned in the powers of the Constitutional Court, Article 160. However, Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly, and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. And the provision of Article 153 of the Constitution is also clear: the Minister must act on the basis of the law or the law. And it is here, in our view, that the Minister has acted twice in contravention of the legal order. First time. At the time of adoption of the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision, the Minister should wait for the law to be in force or, in the case at hand, for a decision on the fate of the law at the referendum. And a second time. At the time when the National Assembly has already adopted the law, we appoint it a technical law, then the interpretation of Dr Šturm's duty of minister to comply or issue a decision directly on the basis of a constitutional decision is no longer valid, rather than on the basis of a legal provision. For this very explanation, in his defense, the Minister also partly based his argument. Many legal experts agree if I repeat that this applies only if the National Assembly does not adopt a law implementing a constitutional decision. Article 161 of the Constitution also provides and states in the last paragraph: "The legal consequences of decisions of the Constitutional Court are governed by law." We accepted him in the National Assembly. He's waiting for the referendum. The referendum is a direct way of deciding citizens and citizens and is established by the Constitution and is the highest decision-making method in democracy. And its results must also be taken into account by the Constitutional Court. Since the Minister began to issue decisions without a legal basis, the law is not yet in force. And before the referendum, in our opinion, he acted in contravention of our legal order. The referendum does not decide on human rights but on the way in which the constitutional decision is implemented. All other claims, in our view, are misleading to the electorate, as well as the grading of the Institute of Referendum. In our opinion, the Minister cannot interpret the Constitution and the basic constitutional charter. In our view, the Constitutional Court cannot, too, interfere with the basic constitutional charter, which has clearly stipulated that after the deadlines set, all foreigners in the territory of Slovenia are present if they have not regulated their status at any time. In response to the interpretation at this point, the Minister based some political decisions. However, the National Assembly takes decisions, political and professional, which are then called law, and the laws apply to all the same. The executive, Minister, is obliged to enforce the laws. The Constitution clearly states that we have a division of power in Slovenia into three branches and that the implementation of constitutional decisions is governed by law. In our view, a Constitutional Court ruling cannot be a legal provision. This would be the case if the Ministry were to comply with the decision exactly in accordance with the constitutional decision. However, in the case of deleted and point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision, the Minister shall act differently. And, as it is said, the National Assembly has already passed a law awaiting a decision to enforce or not at the referendum. Furthermore, the method of issuing decisions in the administrative procedure lays down the applicable law on the general administrative procedure which speaks of determining the actual situation and taking account of the rights and benefits of all parties in the procedure. By issuing supplementary decisions, without taking into account the current situation and without taking into account the consequences of such decisions, damage is caused to the citizens of our country. The rule of law shall be infringed if the consequences are not foreseen, both financially and as a result of discrimination between the beneficiaries themselves, since in this case the Minister shall issue decisions on various legal bases. We also wonder what the consequences and entitlements of such decisions follow if the law does not adequately provide for them. In our view, the system law, which is in the procedure just before adoption, is inconsistent with certain laws and will be difficult to enforce in the light of the way in which compensation is limited. Some legal experts argue that it is misleading, in some elements it can also be constitutionally controversial. Therefore, it is necessary and in our view only possible to seek solutions by means of a constitutional law that would give weight to this solution, such as the weight of determining the conditions for obtaining status given by the basic constitutional charter. The fundamental constitutional charter clearly states that after a certain period of time, all former residents in Slovenia who have not regulated their status become foreigners. And in solving this problem of so-called eraseds, we should come from here. In our view, all, both the government coalition and the opposition, should participate in decisions on the country's fundamental decisions. Such solutions show that it is not wise to enforce the argument of power and voting, because, as has been shown in this case, the topic, which should however be marginal, has become the main political theme even in the pre-election period. That's not right. The problems that need much broader debates lie elsewhere, in other laws, in other reforms, in other projects, we pay little attention to them. Our Group of Members and the Slovenian People's Party, already a year ago when the Constitutional Court decision was issued, called for respect for the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and for the issue of decisions based on law, to determine the actual situation and also to anticipate the consequences. Allow me to quote briefly a few lines from a letter I sent as the President of the party to the Prime Minister on 4 February this year when we were informed that the Minister had decided to issue supplementary decisions. I suggested that, with regard to the issuance of supplementary decisions to so-called deleted persons, he should warn the competent minister that he must comply with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party has, throughout the negotiations and in the process of resolving the issue of the regulation of the status of foreigners, former citizens of the SFRJ, pointed out that the issue of decisions under Constitutional Court decision No. UI246/0228 based on the law. The issuance of decisions without a legal basis will further complicate the procedures and finalisation of this issue. The question is also whether such a decision will not be issued without a legal basis even null and void. Because of the different opinions of the legal profession, because of the violent reaction of the public and also because of the distribution, because of the divided opinion in the National Assembly, and also because of the position of the State Council, we expected political wisdom to prevail in this matter, that we would reject the technical law on the basis of the veto of the State Council and then together all political parties in the National Assembly to find a definitive solution to this problem. In our opinion, a final solution will have to be sought after the referendum held this Sunday and, in our view, it will only be possible to do so by means of an appropriate constitutional law. At this referendum, we will also decide whether we agree with the proposed means of implementing the constitutional decision. In the Slovenian People's Party, we argue that such regulation is not good, that a new law must be written that will otherwise address this issue and, above all, will clearly foresee all the consequences. It is also necessary to regulate the possibility that all who want to regulate their status, and here again I would like to point out publicly that we have never objected to determining in which cases the error has been made and to correct it. Above all, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have taken the whole rescue process to make it clear that all those who were against Slovenia who acted against the values acquired by independence or even acted in aggression against our country, that they could never get a residence permit in our country, let alone compensation or payment for the return. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have therefore given a brief explanation of our political views, which we have been repeating as a party all months ago, and these are also the reasons that will lead us today to support the proposed interpretation. I would like to point out that, in our view, it is not permissible to issue decisions on the basis of a Constitutional Court judgment when a national assembly is involved, and in this case, it is already a decision by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Despite the expected result of the vote on the proposal to dismiss Dr Rado Bohinc's role as Minister of the Interior, and this decision will probably be rejected, I will, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, but I will lay down some of the reasons why we are convinced that the replacement of the Minister is necessary, such as the necessary change of the entire government, which has been so weak in recent years, that even if today it would be completely abandoned, it is too late. The fact that the Government is taking a stand in the defence of a minister who, in the proposal for interpretation, is manifestly inadequately enforcing the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on deleted property, injuring the purchase of a police boat and jeopardising the proper control of Slovenian territorial waters and protecting the external borders of the European Union after 1 May 2004, inadequate and controversial proposals for solutions in the area of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, ineffective public sector wage systems, inadequate procedures for the resolution of complaints against police officers, delays in the preparation of legislation, violations of the regulation on the organisation of bodies in the composition of ministries, political abuses of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Slovak Administration. This fact only further excuses the claim that the government is no longer able to critically assess the work of their ministers, that, in particular for the purchase of inter-community peace, it allows them to do virtually anything they want to do, and nevertheless still sit comfortably on their ministerial chairs. Such governments with such ministers do not need Slovenia. Moreover, such a government is leading the Slovenian country in a steeply falling curve-free way into the future, and this must be done as soon as possible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we have repeatedly pointed out in the consideration of the draft law on deleted persons that the cruel fates of individuals by political parties and their actors, who have been responsible for human rights violations over the past 10 years, are being misused to collect cheap political points. If we want to prove the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior for this, we must first assess in an integrated manner the solution to the problem of the deleted, where we can find that all the political parties that are now in the same or similar composition as you sat in Parliament ten years ago are now responsible for the mistakes that your officials have made at that time, and that you are inadvertently hiding behind an unacceptable populist policy that offers no solution but generates disputes and intolerance and problems only deepens. You use the feelings of citizens both on the left and on the right without shame as a pre-election voice-gathering generator, which you also artificially maintain in your operations, even because there are two elections this year. And it is much easier for you than for citizens to offer quality programming solutions, to ride on the accident of individuals, while also under the carpet to sweep away all the mistakes and errors that citizens would have missed, if the problem of deleted ones had long been solved, for sure. With that, both the one on the left and the one on the right are exactly the same. It is understandable why - because they are responsible for the problem of so - called deleted ones. The Minister responsible for this area is no exception. It is true that he is much more exposed and that, as Minister of the United Nations, he mainly applies the policy of this party and the government, which the coalition partner is its party, which does not bind him to responsibility if he is acting in a manner that is evidently to the detriment of the State. That this claim is on the ground is also evidenced by the fact that, Mr Minister, you have used the same experts in writing a proposal for a system law, sometimes representing the United List as legal advisers. All employees in the Ministry, as well as many prominent legal professionals from both universities, have been too few to form a quality constitutional law to deal with the problem of the deleted in a qualitative manner. No! No! You have introduced a law written by the former Constitutional Judge, or legal representative of the United Nations when it comes to the adoption of the Vatican Agreement. Mr. Minister, it is true that you have the right to choose advisers and associates, but it is also true that you take responsibility for their mistakes. When the Members of our parliamentary group, together with the signatories, tabled a proposal for a constitutional law that, according to our estimates, would fully address the problems deleted, the situation between the parliamentary parties, as a result of the inadequacy of the performance of the tasks of the Minister of Home Affairs, was already so carried out that it was no longer possible to collect the necessary two-thirds support for the adoption of the law. In addition, the fact that certain parties would rather spend money on the referendum rather than on the problem of the deleted ones being resolved was also an encouraging factor. Which, Mr. Secretary, does not detract from your responsibility. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we agree with the applicants who wrote in the interpretation that the Ministry of the Interior has repeatedly acted confused and contradictory in relation to so-called deleted cases, and in the end there has been an apparent abuse of the Ministry as a whole for political purposes. So far, in your answers to these accusations, you have not rejected these charges in any reasonable way. Your basic error was that you went into parliamentary procedure with two laws, while otherwise you would have resolved the problem elegantly with a single quality law. At the second interpolation point, which speaks of damage to state property in purchasing a police boat and endangering the proper control of Slovenian territorial waters and protecting the external borders of the European Union after 1 May 2004, we would like to add that the problem is not only in the boat, which is more on land than in the sea, but the Minister does not follow the changes in the organisation of police work at the land border. If I expose only the border police department Postojna for example, it operates in the area of six municipalities. In the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica alone, 56% of all police officers operate and only 44% work together in the other five municipalities. They're probably not just there for the better, they're there because they're doing the main job. In the next three years, 170 new police officers will be employed in the Illyrian Bistrica area, which will increase the percentage. That's not enough reason to set up the headquarters of the police department. Even more, he answers such questions with a mocking voice, not to say an offensive tone. The situation is similar with the acquisition of personnel. Of the nearly 30 registered locals, only two were accepted at the last invitation. Such a way of working is certainly not proud of you in the local areas and what can happen when Slovenia enters the European Union when you encounter unloving events on the periphery, when the citizens of the protest decide even to block roads or the most important border checkpoints, such as Jelsanes. We'll see if you make fun of it. We will not comment on the other points of interpolation in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, as they have been satisfactorily presented by the interpelling proponents. However, we would like to draw attention to some of the obvious responsibilities that we should have long been responsible for as Minister. Among them is your responsibility in a fully committed decentralisation policy, where it is particularly necessary to highlight the regionalisation that you have enshrined in your party's narrow political interests, because you were unable to propose any changes to the Constitution that would ensure the necessary two-thirds majority and would allow regionalisation in Slovenia to become a reality, but not just a pre-election bottleneck, which you will, because you have not implemented it without shame, apply to any other elections. The reform of local self-government, presented in the new bill on local self-government, is also a material proof that instead of allowing the basic cells of local self-government with the new law to perform better in the constitution of the stated tasks, instead of ensuring that the salaries of the mayors are several times higher than they are now, the mayors have allowed them to perform an incompatible function until 2006; you have abolished the legal personality of the larger parts of the municipalities and have made sure that the local communities deal with themselves instead of partnering up against the country and moving up from the bottom the policy of the decentral development of the country that you are the minister of. Given how many variations of the number of provinces you have presented in public, you probably do not know which provinces are the ones officially supported by the Ministry. And if you don't know this as a minister, then it's a clear sign that by the time the provinces are in Slovenia, it's still very, very far away. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, after the debate and your answers, we will each decide on how we will vote. Personally, I say that, like almost a year ago, when I first asked you to resign and then a few more times, I personally now predict that I will break the interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, if yesterday's interpretation of the root in the lobbyist interests within and outside health care with a view to abolishing the minister, who has become a nuisance to them, today's proposal can be said to be revolutionary in his main point. It is unacceptable for our Group of Members to dismiss the Interior Minister because he finally began to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. This would mean that we do not recognize the role he plays in the Constitutional Court. The other interpolation points, i.e. points 2, to 8, are poorly and poorly reasoned at first sight and appear to have been added to force. Don't make any mistake! We do not consider the work of the Interior Minister to be excellent, in particular as regards the resolution of the issue of the deleted ones, but we do not believe that the objections to his conduct can be accounted for by supporting the interpolation. If something can be revealed to the minister in solving this issue in our opinion, this is mainly because it was too late and awkward to do so. To attract those who undermine it, however, would mean that we agree with the statements and conduct of the opposition, which, in addition to all legitimate and legal arrests not to mention them, has also used intimidation as a way to prevent the implementation of a constitutional decision. It is not to be forgotten, however, that all those who cooperated in any way in the application of that decision by the Constitutional Court were threatened with prosecution. No, you won't see any LDS Members and Members of the LDS in such "robots"! But I'm going to say that for the end. We are concerned that the issue of deleted abuses is being used to achieve political objectives, but we are only convinced that democracy in some society is as much as it feels for minorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented to us by Mr Saša Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Dearly represented, in the Slovenian National Party or the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will support interpellation in a uniform manner, precisely because we are convinced that this is such an important topic that, if it already brings certain Members together into the Group of Members, it makes sense that they are united, that people know what they can expect from such a Group of Members of the Council in the future. So much for the intro. Unfortunately, the work of the Ministry of Interior or Minister Bohinc is not proud of our country, it is not proud of the Republic of Slovenia, as his work so far has not been proud of our country. Mr. Bohinc, you have opposed the independence of our country. You and your fellow thinkers called for a boycott around the plebiscite, urging them to make a different decision. About the same as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing today around the referendum issue, where it directly or indirectly urges people not to attend the referendum. It is possible to draw parallels between the two events, but the changed history as one of the basic characteristics of Mr Bohinc usually takes place in some normal companies when the regime is changed. Mr Bohinc, the man on whom today's interpretation is flying, is doing this on his own to satisfy his own interests and to satisfy the interests of the United List of Social Democrats; and this is at the expense and harm of our country of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not going to let go, because to him, that is, to the Minister, and why the United List fits to tarnish our country's independence. I regret, however, that this plan is followed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the majority required in this National Assembly, thus destroying those elements of independence, the elements of independence and - which we think - are also important elements of the future. For example, how someone takes advantage of an institution of function that they carry behind them. A month ago, my colleague Bogdan Barovic set up or proposed that this National Assembly should bow down to one of the fall for the independence of our country. I stress, our countries. Mr Pahor, the representative of the United List, of course took advantage of the institution of the President of the National Assembly and did not allow this National Assembly to give that minute of its time as a fighter for our own country. Fourteen days later, the idea comes from the Liberal Democracy that this national assembly should bow to fallen Americans somewhere abroad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Mr. Pache, please, I'm warning you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Mr. Pahor, of course, allows this minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Mr. Pece, I ask you to proceed to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	And why am I saying this? Due to the increasing number of public officials such as the Minister in recent times, the President of the National Assembly in order to achieve its aboriginal objectives serves only that main objective, that is to satisfy the party's interests. There are many things that are obvious to Minister Bohinc. We think there should be more. Unfortunately, however, the interpellation's proponents hastened, according to our assessment unreasonablely, and have therefore given the procedure quite a leap of interpretation. However, all 90 of us, who are sitting here monitoring legislation that comes from the field of Mr Bohinc, which monitors his activities, which accompany not only his illegal activity but also his unconstitutional action, know that, although these points are very cheaply written, they hold. The first point of the proposed interpretation is linked to the decision of the Constitutional Court. By that decision, which, according to our assessment, was written without taking into account the past period; therefore, without taking into account the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the situation at the time. The Constitutional Court has most likely forgotten or neglected this minority of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. We at the National Party find this shameful for an institution such as the Constitutional Court. The decision was also issued without taking into account the consequences and consequences of this decision. Nothing was recorded anywhere on the financial implications, nothing about the unconstitutional implementation of their decision and nothing was recorded on the intangible consequences of the Constitutional Court decision. According to our assessment, it was an extremely primitive decision of the Constitutional Court. It's not just that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Mr Sašo Peče, second time I remind you, this is not an interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision. And I remind you that you have no right in Parliament to offend institutions. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Madam President, I apologize that I have not given you my text or my thoughts in advance to read to you, as usually government Members do. But I would ask you to allow me to finish, just as you have allowed all the parliamentary groups before me. And I'd like to ask your co-worker that whenever you continue to do so on the basis of your existing practice, take that away from my time. As you are probably well aware, it is you who have limited us time to have only 40 minutes at our disposal, which is the maximum, so I would ask that you do not stop my time and that your visions or your agreement or disagreement with the Minister declare in the course of time available to the Liberal Democracy. In the Slovenian National Party, when the decision of the Constitutional Court was reached, we immediately called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to work on how to implement this to the smallest extent possible damage to the Republic of Slovenia. The response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister was null and void, as usual when it comes to certain national interests or issues that could be referred to as vitals. Therefore, in April last year alone, in the same month as this Constitutional Court decision came, we turned ourselves to the Constitutional Court, with the aim of correcting or allowing the Constitutional Court to decide again and correct its decision, which it then found to be wrong. However, as usual, the Constitutional Court has always replied: Members of the Slovenian National Party have no legal interest in referring to the Constitutional Court. When we asked them who had a legal interest, they answered if they had been erased, they would have had it. In other words, not only to the Member, but to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia they have prevented him from going to the Constitutional Court for truth. However, when requested by a representative of a society deleted on the same grounds, this is, of course, acceptable to the Constitutional Court. At that time and today, we are confident that whoever wanted to has made arrangements for some form of status in our country. Of course, we must be aware of what the rest of you obviously do not realize that it is likely that these people did not deliberately decide to arrange for themselves some form of residence or status in our country. Why not? Because they didn't want to come from Slovenia or maybe because they didn't believe in our country. I repeat, whoever wanted to settle their status at the time could have arranged this status. Evidence of this is a few statistics: in 1992 the Republic of Slovenia issued over 120,000 new nationals, from 1992 to 1995 about 30,000 more temporary or permanent residence permits. The self-sustaining legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, including the legislation in question, has been positively assessed by both the institutions of the European Union and the United Nations. At that time, we were extremely proud to have carried out our independence on the basis of quality legislation. Today, the Minister appears and next to him is the institution of the Constitutional Court, which is the only one who says that our independent legislation has been weak, that our own own own legislation has been unconstitutional and that we must correct it. It is far more reasonable, and it would be reasonable, if someone from abroad were to warn us about this than someone inside the country, to point out this, and the other side says it is not. But of course Mr Bohinc's political path and his political party is strange, just as it is a strange lawsuit in Europe. Three years ago, maybe four years ago, one of the parliamentary groups was texting with a Venice commission, and then the whole of Slovenia jumped on the road and said, "Why does someone internationalise their problem?" And it is also true that we all jumped on the road, just as the then president of the country made a big and wide call on this and said that it was a shameful thing to do. But when the United List does so, when a government party does so, when the United List of Social Democrats does so, no one gets circumcised. At the same time, it is good that everyone is suing our country or that their own citizens are suing their own country for purely political interests. And how did it all start? For the introduction of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, we must say that the creation of an impression of a deletion is intentional, that is the United List's political action and the Minister's, although we must be aware that there was no deletion, was only a transfer or transcript to another record for those who did not want to regulate the status and that is also right. The lability of the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of the Interior, or I apologize, the political commitment of the Ministry of the Interior has, of course, exploited the society of so-called deleted, self-named, I apologize. The man who was a constitutional judge four years ago, the Constitutional Judge, who also had problems in his work area, held the case in his hands for four years without moving it forward. And only after his status as Constitutional Judge expired did he take up the role, in narrations, as a legal representative, as a lawyer of this society and introduced the problem into the Slovenian society. The problem of deleted has suddenly become problem number one. It is, of course, necessary to say that this man is also the legal adviser to the United Nations. According to our assessment, or I will start like this, the fact is that since the current decision of the Constitutional Court, Minister Bohinc has been deceiving this National Assembly and, more importantly, has been deceiving citizens and citizens. By offering a solution that he knew was false when he offered such a solution that he knew he would not execute. And he offered it solely for one reason, so that he could cloud the Slovenian public to this extent in order to become passive in this area. That's pretty much how it happens. In the Slovenian National Party, we also claim that from the very beginning the Minister knew about the way and how he would carry out the political vision of the United List. And that all the intermediate steps were intended solely for the process to be long-term and I do not want to repeat myself to make the matter unattractive for citizens and citizens. With your correspondence to the Constitutional Court, with your correspondence to the Ministry, and all of this almost worked out for you. I sincerely hope, on behalf of the Group of Members, that you have failed. Minister Bohinc has ordered and obtained a legal opinion of the so-called most respected experts in the field of constitutional law. What later turned out to be that this opinion was a farce. Since the Minister has never done so, we can be sure that we can all figure it out together, never stick together. Legal experts in the field of constitutional law state in their conclusion or in their text ordered by Mr Bohinc the following: "In this opinion, the issue of decisions in administrative proceedings only on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court is not admissible, but is an appropriate basis, in accordance with Article 153(4) of the Constitution and Article 155 of the Constitution, only the law may be allowed." With these words, Minister Bohinc addressed us when he was in the procedure, or I apologize when he introduced or proposed two laws instead of one in the initial turn. According to our assessment, there should be only one law in the procedure with which to deal in a uniform and comprehensive manner with the issue covered by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Minister Bohinc has decided, only for a known reason, for two marriages. With this, you have also received, or the viewers, as far as they see us, the answer to the question of why two referendums are needed. Two referenda are required solely for the purpose of the game of the United List because it has put two laws into the procedure. The simplest and most accurate thing to say. Of course, his decision on the two laws came upon sharp, negative responses rather quickly. Again, by various legal professionals in the sense that, if both laws were adopted, we will thus create two categories of beneficiaries, which will be unacceptable in terms of the constitutionality of the principle of equality before the law. But of course, even this warning, even to this violation of the constitutional provisions, Minister Bohinc did not change his decision. Why did Minister Bohinc not change his decision despite his behaviour to work against the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Because he realizes that this National Assembly has the power to vote anything he wants. Government laws have thus come into the parliamentary procedure, the first so-called, popularly-called technical law, whose substantive dispute has been expressed throughout his entire life, to which we have warned in the Slovenian National Party. You were both in the government and in the government's majority deaf, but the state's world responded to that warning. However, Members and Members of the government majority have also rejected Mr Bohinc's veto as if nothing had happened in this area. It would probably be understandable to a certain limit that the government party or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take into account in any way the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, given that we have such different views on the future development of the country. Since one of you is willing to sell this country for every pfenig, whatever, the other is not ready and we will never be, it is, of course, so much more incomprehensible that that institution, also called the State Council, is being moved with its left hand to tell them that they are not really worth anything and that their existence is completely meaningless. But this is where we run into that kind of duality. When there was a proposal in Parliament to abolish the state council, because of its futility, you said no. Because sometimes they merely make certain decisions or conclusions, decisions that fit the majority of governments. From this place I call on you whether you respect the state world always or never. Not that, now, if it suits us, it's acceptable for society if it doesn't suit us, no. And this pasture or no pasture is solely in the hands of the United List and the Liberal Democracy. Therefore, to those who oppose the policy of the United List of Social Democrats, there is no alternative but to submit or accede to the referendum initiatives on behalf of the maintenance of the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. More about this referendum on Sunday. In other words, this referendum will decide whether the Republic of Slovenia should adopt the policy of the United List, namely, the playing of independence, the forgetting of independence and the reward of those who opposed Slovenia's independence. This is, as a rule, an essential Sunday referendum issue. The second law, which Minister Bohinc introduced into the parliamentary procedure, is called a system law. He filed it under normal procedure, again under the same pretext, but now we offer political parties to complement it in part with amendments, changes and their views. True, we have written amendments to the parliamentary groups. We wrote them in the national party, I think most of them, but in every way very large and all of them reflected in some kind of concern and protection for the Slovenian country. But of course, no amendment by the Slovenian National Party as no other amendment, not only by the opposition, but by no member of the ruling majority. Of course, it has made a kind of paradox, that is, that the law in the third reading is unconstitutional and that you will probably have to adopt this law in advance or in the course of the previous conduct on the non-constitutionality of matter. But around the systemic and technical law - according to our assessment - according to the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, that is, according to the book which should normally be our work plan, of course, none of these laws should formally be introduced. According to the conduct of all of us, none of the laws, not systemically or technically, so the two laws in the field of deleted, met the normal criteria required by the Rules of Procedure. None of these laws, despite the demands of the opposition, contained concrete financial consequences in its contents. I would expect that this service of the National Assembly, the Secretariat for Legal Affairs or whatever it is called for to immediately invite President Pahor, a member of the United Kingdom, to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to complete the law. This would be normal in some normal respects, but of course the ruling majority did not care whether the law had these financial consequences or not. As with the ruling majority, whether or not the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will pay for these financial consequences is absolutely irrelevant. And today with certainty we can say, yes, they will. The way has already begun. As you know, we just introduced a few new taxes last week that will run into the budget. And where are these financial resources going to go? Part also so-called or self-named deleted However, as far as the secretariat and its role are concerned, I would like to highlight all those institutions that could actively or should actively participate in the story, but they are not, because they know that if they cooperate, they should give a different opinion than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore they prefer to withdraw. The secretariat did not request or warn President Pahor and, of course, Comrade Pahor did not ask the government to supplement the law. It follows from this that we have absolutely double criteria, who makes the law and what the content of the law is. Usually, at least for instance, I can say that when we introduce a law in the Slovenian National Party, Mr Pahor and the Law Service warn us and ask us to make corrections if there is a comma missing. In this case, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is monitoring the game of the United List, of course, there may be even a chapter missing, the most important, financial consequences, but it does not bother anyone in this National Assembly in the government or in this country. When they asked for a legal service, or I am correcting myself, what was the reaction of the legal service in the context of the National Assembly in a specific case? Why she did not point out why she let the law into the procedure without warning was the answer, we are not competent to take a position on the decision of the Constitutional Court. So the easiest thing to do is to have an institution like that answer, we're not responsible for it, but we have it in this country too. Whenever a mistake occurs, fraud or anything like that, everyone says it's not in our jurisdiction to let someone else deal with it. Now around the normal procedure. I have already told you that we had a so-called system law in normal procedure, which should normally allow us to participate in the debate and to cooperate in terms of content, amending the law and similar things. You have been a bulldozer to government parties, that is, with very little debate and always the same vote, so you have rejected all the additions, overstepped the law and discussed the second reading or second reading in a way that no amendment has been adopted and cannot be amended in the third reading. According to our assessment, this is, of course, a consequence of either government arrogance or the senseless complacency of the Minister, which has been negatively repaid. For the Constitutional Court, that organisation or institution in our country, which has been very active in this area, has, of course, found faulty in any other area, but some of them have had to give of themselves, but the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedure, at least at the end of the second hearing, is unconstitutional. In addition, they have, of course, found or put before the fact that the National Assembly as a legislative branch of power, insofar as it seeks to satisfy, at least, legal practice, should, of course, reject this law. What are you going to do, vote against your marriage? On the other hand, you are not together enough to allow people to make decisions about him. In fact, it would be only up to you to decide whether or not you are in favour of getting things done as we proposed in the United Nations Charter and the LDS. Why are you afraid to give it to people? At the referendum, let's just check whether people trust you or not. Since you are doing or doing something, whether it will be on the Committee on Internal Policy or in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear that you know in advance that people do not agree with your work, but you are just ahead through the wall. I sincerely hope this won't take long. But to touch certain indisputable facts again. In addition, it is clear so far that the Minister has violated both Article 153 of the Constitution and Article 155 of the Constitution and has begun to issue decisions beyond any legal basis. A lot of them talked about it in front of me. But what is interesting as a result of this kind of work is not only that the Constitutional Court has been played, not only that it has shed a dark light on the independent legislation, but that some have clearly said that they are ashamed of doing from the period of independence, but that about 200 decisions have returned to the Ministry with the title of the addressee unknown or something like that. And what does that mean if we translate into a simple language? It means that you have sent decisions to all in a row and also to all those who have not only forgotten the Republic of Slovenia since 1992, but have long since moved to parts of the former Yugoslavia and settled some status, no matter what you start sending them, it doesn't matter who they are, no checks, nothing at all. The Minister simply went along the line of the slightest resistance, which is not only illegal, unconstitutional, as we have already established a few times, and began sending everything in order. But to at least this time apologize and break up with his actions, and when he realized that decisions were mass-returning to the Ministry, no, the minister was even continuing with his work. Today you're sending them decisions, which - I don't want to start any debate on this, because we all know what time it is - will be the legal basis for a substantive action against the State. These decisions will allow what Minister Bohinc said would not happen until last December. In his opening speech, the Minister already acknowledged the existence of several claims for compensation, but did not say the amount of those claims. And from this place I ask, Mr Minister, you probably have so many updates in your service, but tell us all of us who are here today in the National Assembly and all of us who are accompanying, what is the amount of compensation claims. If there's so few of them, you probably know them by heart? On the other hand, the number of applications lodged is not as important, given the behaviour or information we have acquired in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, and I believe that you all have this information, but that it is on the part of the society that the wish has been expressed not to press charges against the State until the proceedings have been completed. And only after the story is over when all the decisions are made will they be mass-produced after the same hoof. So right now, the number of lawsuits against the state doesn't even matter, because they're going to throw us all of a sudden with them. And how logical is this game of theirs, don't you think? Mr. Minister, I ask you to remain here, of course, to consider this. I first started out that you were in the autumn of last year, so in 2003 you said no one would get compensation. These statements, or statements, indicate many other things. They indicate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia no longer distinguishes between the judiciary, the executive and the legislative branches, and that the Minister of the Interior can give a new indication of how the court will decide on any case. With this, we have clearly come to understand what the impact of the United List is going to be, probably also the Liberal Democrats in the Court of Justice. That every year or half a year in advance, they told us what the case would be. And can we even talk about the autonomy of the third branch of power, the judicial branch of power? We've seen that the autonomy of the Constitutional Court is gone. We have heard Minister Bohintz say in advance how the judiciary will decide individual matters. On this basis, the requirement of ruling parties after this permanent term of office of judges is also clear. Of course, we could not afford such work if we did not have a permanent mandate in our country. But that is why your firm belief that a permanent mandate must be maintained for every force and at any cost, since it is only in this way possible that the executive branch of power or part of the executive branch of authority, that is, these two most powerful government parties control the judicial ways. Mr Bohinc, I therefore ask you from this city: Are you determining legal practice? From your words - yes, yes. In his defence, the Minister argued that the basis for issuing decisions which he is sending to a large extent now was the December decision of the Constitutional Court, which lays down, in its content, the legislator, namely the National Assembly, Parliament and the Ministry of the Interior, to begin implementing the decision. Of course, such an explanation or such a representation of the legal basis is prompted by the legal order of our country. It is a fact, and if we start to listen well, to start implementing the decision, but nowhere to speak about the way in which it is implemented, and on the basis of constitutional arrangements, only that part of the constitutional division that speaks of the principle of the division of power is left to the national assembly. Not only does Mr Bohinc find that he does not recognize the relationship or distinction between the executive and judicial branches of power, but we come to the realization that they no longer know the authorities of law. And we get to that vicious circle, when we actually see how few people control our Slovenia, control politics in our house, control executive policy and control judicial policy. While giving gifts to aggressors, speculators and those who did not read, looked, and did not talk to their neighbors, they did not know that there was a process of self-reliance in Slovenia, the minister began to carry out threats against Slovenians and Slovenians. There was something about the post office of the Slovenian National Party, but we do not have the habit of mentioning the contents of this mail. However, I would like to mention only one matter concerning threats against Slovenian citizens and citizens by the Ministry. In the process of establishing a permanent residence, the Ministry of the Interior, dated 2004 and 23 January, invites the person concerned to be heard as a witness in the process of admission to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia for another person. Okay, well, one thinks, maybe they're just checking what neighbors know, what neighbors don't know. It's all good and it's all good. But certainly not that the last sentence of the letter, the official letter by the executive branch of authority, which is probably sent to thousands of addresses, ends. If the person invited does not come and apologize, he may be brought in, and he shall also be punished with a fine. What does that mean? They will, of course, check with Slovenians if those 200 long no longer live in Slovenia, which are somewhere in Serbia, Bosnia or elsewhere, check and bring them to the silo of Slovenia and then even deepen them. Why? Because of your poor record or because of the wrong way to solve such a problem. Not only do you write invitations like that in the title of this document, but I think it's really embarrassing that you're rewarding, so all four categories, I'm going to repeat, speculators, war aggressors, those who didn't read, they didn't listen, but they were in the four walls during the period of independence, you're going to reward them, and you're going to punish the Slovenians. We really don't know where or where this country is going in this country, but of course the Ministry of the Interior is in the service of the United List of Social Democrats. As far as the continuation is concerned, the misleading of the Minister is of course not over. Also around the story of external colleagues, quite a number of untruths have been presented today and have been presented in previous discussions. In the parliamentary group on 11.04.2003, you must admit that we were very up-to-date in view of the fact that a decision of the Constitutional Court had been issued a few days earlier, we asked the Ministry of the Interior to tell us where it had worked, which draft legislation and how much Mr Krivic had been paid for it. So let me illustrate, that constitutional judge who for four years did not want to move the matter from the dead point that is immediately after - please calm down, if you have a problem, leave the hall, thank you - so the judge who, immediately after losing the status of constitutional judge, became the legal representative of the society deleted is one of the authors of the constitutionality initiative. Mr Bohinc, on the other hand, is paying him to do his advisory work. Mr Krivic is standing in every possible field in this country around this matter. And even the state, the Ministry of the Interior is paying for it, Minister Bohinc said no a few times, and we didn't hire him around the mentioned matter. So this man who is hurting is actually hurting our country. But of course, given that we have received a written reply and at these moments I am very pleased to receive written answers, I will quote this most important part: "Mister Matevž Krivic has prepared his view within this group to solve the problem of deleted, deleted," I apologize, "and prepared his draft amendment to the law on the regulation of the status of other countries of the former SFRJ and received 350,000 Slovenian Tolars for his work." A lot of people are going to say that it's not that big a marriage. But once again, if we take a good look at all those who send their views to the Ministry, how to solve a certain matter, it's also a little absurd. And because I believe that such absurdities do not occur at the Ministry or because I do not want to believe, because then each of the citizens of tomorrow, as long as the Minister is still here, or even today, will start to write laws and get 350 thousand dollars for each law, which would probably suit many in our country, Mr Krivic was invited to participate. Therefore, he was invited on this site to defend the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to defend the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The party, which, of course, devalues the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and also works on that side. He says, in their interest. We see we're coming in one lap. According to our assessment, the Minister has gravely violated the rule of law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. He was deceiving the National Assembly, which is what we are used to, but he also deceived citizens and citizens. That's not fair to them. We will support interpellation in the Slovenian National Party. And if, or, and if today’s interpolation is viewed through a political power ratio in this national assembly, then it is necessary to say that we will meet another kind or content of another interpolation on Sunday, this is a referendum. There, however, people will say whether they agree with or disagree with the United Nations policy. And it makes sense and wise, and especially responsible by the minister, if people say no to him, which we can count on as a referendum to give up. The other entries in the interpolation, i.e. in the interpolation before us, are, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Parties. As I said at the outset, there should be a lot more of these. But of course, the social-democrats didn't offer us this option. As far as the second point is concerned, the claim around the boat, where the minister's claim about many, or the Minister's reply, is evident, does not hold back the claim of many unsuccessful calls for the purchase of a police boat. Seven lines later, the minister himself finds that there were three attempts. So from some logical conclusion, which we also attribute to the minister, it is necessary to find out, and it is very easy to say that the first and second attempts were unsuccessful. So, of course, this minister's response cannot be true. Given that the bell alerts me at the end of time, I will only point out that we will be united in the Slovenian National Party. We expect all parliamentary groups to be united and, above all, give citizens and citizens the opportunity to know how to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The part where Mr Pece extended his accusations to the services of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly in the sense that the unjustifiable State Assembly, because of the conduct of the aforementioned acts, has taken up both of the laws on deleted, I must say that, in order to preserve the integrity of both those who have been appointed, this is not true. None of the laws have direct financial implications. And the readings on everyone you've listed don't hold. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! In the case of illegal conduct by public authorities, the Constitution itself in Article 24 allows for the possibility for injured persons to file compensation actions. And all these claims are not true. We have therefore heard the views of Members and Members. Now, here comes the debate of all. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! First of all, I would like to invite Mr Ivan Kebrich to the floor, then I would like to say the word, Mr Minister. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, your co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution guarantees Members that they must think with their heads and that no one can command them how they must vote or how they must not vote. Why am I saying that? I'm saying because I'm going to make a decision on the basis of arguments. The arguments, as suggested by the interpellation's proponents, are another basis for the Minister's reply, his arguments, which reject certain accusations. Mr. Secretary, you've convinced me in many ways. But not in two things. You haven't convinced me why you've changed, because you've been a negotiator with the finance minister to make public servants extra voluntary, that's what you've turned into compulsory extra insurance, but you've damaged not only 500 thousand pensioners, over 500 thousand, all those 10,000 unemployed who are getting paid. In addition, all others involved in the coordination of social assistance in relation to the movement of average Slovenian wages. You also didn't convince me when you were talking about why there was one, just one closed pension fund. And you said that this is not a monopoly, because we also have other pension funds, but at the same time or previously you have simply ordered that three years is not possible to choose the pension fund. None of us elderly people, after voluntary supplementary pension insurance, would accept any pension fund, those who have less than ten years to retire because it is of no interest to them, because these contributions would not bring them enough for their expenses, or they want to share and cause their salaries, secretaries and ficus and so on. On the other hand, you didn't give up that competitiveness. The mandatory additional insurance that I will not misinterpret for us officers, however I read this law and voted against it, did not convince me, because the officials are not involved in collective agreements and therefore we do not apply if you find any other option to bring us into this insurance, one will be grateful and the other will not agree because it is not in accordance with the law. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I now invite you to the floor of the Minister. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I will try to give some answers to the debates that followed, or to the presentations of the opinions of the groups. Without the ambition of being able to respond immediately to all your further intensifications, arguments. I'd like to say the following first. The type politicized you by a decision of the Constitutional Court, disagreed with it, cited arguments against such a decision, even disqualified this institution of supreme legal authority in the country. Let me just say that I don't want to be politicized in this regard. It seems to me that we have no right, none of us, but at the very least the executive branch of power, to wonder whether a judicial decision is good or bad, whether it should be better, or whether it did not take into account anything that should be taken into account. We have no right to ask ourselves that. We have no rights in this regard, but we only have a duty. This duty, however, is to enforce a judicial decision. And for a decision of the Constitutional Court ordering the Ministry of the Interior to issue a decision directly, without legal basis, to be deleted, of course, this applies, as with all other decisions of all courts in that country. I therefore deny once again the correctness of those views and arguments which we find illegal action when we issue decisions directly without legal basis at the Ministry of Justice. In my oral reply, I gave a legal argument on this question. I'll do it again. It is true, I repeat, that there are different legal opinions and a group of legal experts, which you all mention, here is a different opinion. However, the Constitutional Court merely sums up another opinion. It summarises the opinion from the comments of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a reputable professor of administrative law, Dr. Lovra Šturm, who has put himself in a position which, as it is said, is also summarized by the Constitutional Court in one of the reasons for his decisions when he says that the decision of the Constitutional Court is a legal provision. This means the legal basis for administrative proceedings which can be governed on this basis when the Constitutional Court applies Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act authorising the Constitutional Court to determine how the Constitutional Court’s decision is implemented. That is exactly what happened in this case. The Constitutional Court has established a method of enforcement, provided that the Ministry of the Interior is to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court by directly issuing decisions. I therefore reject all those views, all those arguments that the Ministry of the Interior in this regard or in this regard is doing anything illegal. The Ministry of the Interior shall act lawfully in the light of this opinion and shall enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to explain what you rightly asked yourself, why we did not attach such an opinion to last April or why we did not start issuing the decisions in April of last year, immediately after the issuance of the famous April decision of the Constitutional Court. For every important decision - and this decision later proved to be, you will probably agree with me that the decision is an important political dimension - it is right to find as much political compromise as possible in the country. In deciding whether to issue decisions directly or to propose a law or even two laws in this regard, I have conducted a series of consultations between political parties, not only coalitions, but also among other parties. For the fact is - and I would like to stress in particular - that both ways are legal. There is a legal way for the National Assembly itself to determine by law how to enforce a decision of the Constitutional Court, but there is also a legal way for a decision of the Constitutional Court to be carried out directly; there is no doubt about that. The Constitutional Court has this right, and that's what it's done. The Constitutional Court does not object, even in some of its explanations, expressly states that the legislator can determine the method of enforcement by law, subject to a constitutional judgment. Well, and after all these consultations - we have specifically consulted with colleagues from the People's Party, how important it is to establish a legal basis. Their position was very important in this regard, as was the attitude of some others. In this regard, we have also followed the view that it is advisable to proceed first with a law that would regulate the legal basis only for those who are totally indisputable, for those who have already been authorised in this country and only their status should be regulated in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. This is the argument, this is the answer to the question why we started with technical law and only later with systemic law. I agreed with your opinion, especially with the People's Parties and others, especially because a group of experts strongly agreed, and it was a sensible approach to establish a legal basis - thinking, of course, respected colleagues and colleagues, that wisdom will also prevail in this regard in Slovenian party policy and that together we will establish a legal basis for the decision of the Constitutional Court to be implemented. Something else happened. There has been a great deal of politicisation, and it has happened that some forces in the Slovenian Parliament have tried, at all costs, to prevent the implementation of this law, which has been passed. And, of course, what is not to happen is that we have been in an unconstitutional situation in this country, in such a situation that we have already been told by foreigners who are interested in this problem, in such a situation that we have rightly been asked very categorically in this regard by Slovenian civil society, not only by society deleted, but also by many others, why we do not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. And then it came decisively, the December decision of the Constitutional Court, where it was explicitly stated, today I have quoted this once before, I do not think it is necessary to quote again, but the Constitutional Court has written that, with the possible rejection of the law at the subsequent legislative referendum, it will not terminate the duty of the State Assembly, I take it, I do not quote, nor does the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has the legal basis to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court, to therefore issue decisions directly in the manner ordered by the Constitutional Court. For me personally, this December decision has been decisively broken, especially since the referendum has been put in a standstill, a referendum against the technical law, and it seems to me that I have acted properly, fairly, and above all within the constitutional order of the Slovenian State, that I have begun to issue decisions. My colleague Janš asked whether the illegality before or the illegality of the transactions, or whether I admit this kind of error. My answer is this, any way of enforcing a Constitutional Court decision, or by law or directly, is within the Slovenian constitutional order, so there was no illegality either in the first or in the second approach. It is true, however, that such political consequences as the proposal for a technical law and later a systemic law, such politicisation of the one that prevented the law from being enforced, I did not expect in those circumstances. There may also be a flaw in this wrong political assessment, but there is certainly no flaw in any illegality or nonconformity. I am convinced that this conduct is constitutionally consistent and that in the coming weeks, this problem will be resolved, which has experienced such great political dimensions. Why two marriages? I said that the political consensus of the parties, in particular with the assumption that we should first resolve what is necessary, what is at least controversial, what has the legal basis in the decisions already issued, the remaining issues of those categories of the population that have never asked for a residence permit in that country should be addressed more systematically, more systematically, more comprehensively. And that's what the system law brought in. In the framework of the system law, let me say that we have worked closely, not only with the coalition and especially with the People's Party, but we have specifically sought consensus on the most sensitive issues. Questions related to officers, hand-related issues, specific criteria and the like. This is precisely why some products, which are now, in the system law, manifest unconstitutionality because we have tried to compromise on these issues. I would, of course, like to see that we still have our heads on this issue, find an optimal compromise and resolve this issue once and for all. I am also not ruling out a debate on a possible constitutional law. Here in particular, I should like to say that I am grateful to those who have contributed their proposals in this regard, particularly in the last period, in the final phase, namely the Youth Slovenia Party, which has made an important contribution to the search for consensus. I think we will still have to look for consensus so that we will still have to try to find a political consensus on this issue in the country. So much for this right now. However, I would like to make a few more words about the issues related to the alleged damage to state property or the almost unserious debate on the police boat. I think that the debate so far has in fact shown by constantly changing the argument in this regard that there has been no damage to state property here, but quite the contrary. That, as Minister responsible for the property, I acted and acted in a very responsible manner because I rejected the contract in which the price was raised by 18 million from the one determined by the tendering procedures. That I did the only right thing to go to a new invitation to compete equally with domestic and foreign bidders, and that a boat with extremely good technical characteristics was selected on the new invitation, a boat that was praised by Slovenian police in their reports, a boat that was regularly in its function, and I strongly reject the disgrace of Slovenian police in the sense that this boat is constantly in ruins, on renovations and so on. This boat protects the Slovenian border, does not protect, and here I have to protest or wonder at the understanding of the Slovenian state's duty to join the European Union. Interpellation says we won't be able to protect the boat from the 1.5th Schengen border. It just doesn't hold. From the 1.5th Schengen border, Slovenia will not protect. But she'll be protected at the end of 2006. Therefore, the hinting that, because of the boat, whatever it is, we will not protect the Schengen border is, of course, a complete nonsension or misunderstanding of our entry into the European Union or into the Schengen Group of States. The police report, I would like you to take a look at it, skeptics, very carefully states how well this boat works, that the interruptions of its operation are solely related to its maintenance and the usual complaints. Of course, it's not about those, because today I don't remember this number anymore, the obvious, accused of 40 billion property damage. 12 million was the boat we bought, cheaper or for 12 million we paid less for this boat.I hope that the documents I presented here today were viewed and that you no longer have such criticisms. However, if criticism is addressed to a period when a civil court judgment may be adopted at one time, where judicial proceedings are under way in this regard, then, of course, it is another question, or if someone may know what that judgment will be. In fact, lawsuits and applications have been initiated, but none of these claims have yet been judged, and in relation to all these claims, in the Ministry of the Interior we have drawn up a negative opinion and such an opinion or such a response to the action has also been formulated by the judiciary, the Slovenian State Defence Office. In short, an eyewitness to someone who's going to be judged doesn't seem too credible to me. And there's something else I'd like to say. There has been a lot of recollection and criticism of both laws regarding the lack of an assessment of the financial implications. I would like to reiterate, as I have said several times before, that neither technical nor systemic law has any financial implications, no financial implications whatsoever. In 2000, claims were filed against the Slovenian State, one or two. And in 2004 there was also one claim for compensation. I said it all together, like, 14. With regard to all these claims, the Legal Service of the Ministry of the Interior has drawn up negative opinions which will be forwarded to the State Defence Office. But what I want to say is that none of these laws, of course, has any impact on how the possible defendant will succeed before a court of justice with a claim for damages of various types. Let me say that some of the damage is not in material form at all, but merely in the form of satisfaction, in the form of a public apology and so on. In short, all this debate, all this intimidation, all this big damage fraud really doesn't have any basis anymore. After some water has passed since the debate on deleted was raised in such a dimension. That's it, Mr. President. Perhaps later, however, I would like to have the opportunity to explain some of the answers in more concrete terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Of course, Mr. Secretary. Now it's time for a colleague of mags. It's a trifle. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I'm going to touch the police boat, which is, in fact, the minister's end in some way. In view of the procedures that we are looking at and which you have led, it can be found that it is actually some kind of falsified order. If we have found before Minister Kebra yesterday that they are avoiding public procurement with various previous machinations, in order to establish a relationship that there is no need to be tendering, because in both cases it is a matter of public interest and an equivalent exchange, it is a goal or a goal through public procurement, but until we have pursued the objective, we will not conclude this procurement. It's actually the same package. Infringement is in the selection process. Last but not least, Slovenia is smiling and citizens are seriously wondering how we or how the police protect the territorial integrity and inviolability of the land at sea. This one's seriously compromised. This boat, whatever it is, is more dry, more in the dock where it's being repaired than keeping our territory safe. A specific example is that shellfish. Have you done anything about this shellfish? You have done nothing, even though there has already been one complaint by civilians, the police and internal affairs are buzzing at the question of the District Attorney, who is asking which area of the Slovenian sea is protected by the Slovenian police. He hasn't received an answer yet, he hasn't received an answer yet, so you're not, you're not, or you're not responding, or you're not ensuring the inviolability of our territory. It is interesting that we have such problems with this boat, the only one, alone, and it is really comical that it can't work in any way, and we know for a minister that he has a very well-trained yacht that works flawlessly. Otherwise, it is his private business, but it is not understandable that this police boat does not work through such tendering procedures, through such procedures, where a lot of money has been spent. We cannot say now that compensation requirements will be made, that they are already compensation requirements, but this may happen. The second thing I would have touched was on voluntary or collective and voluntary pension insurance, where there is, as in some other procedures, a reduction in pension rights. We believe that the problem is that the government is in difficulty because it does not understand the issue of intergenerational solidarity and the stability of the pension system, but it does not oblige it to learn and prepare such solutions that are not detrimental to the pensioners, such solutions that do not create a monopolistic position of the insurance fund and do not violate the rules of public procurement. Why did you form one fund? By doing so, you have made it impossible for people to decide for themselves about that part of their pension, where they will give, in which fund, the right to dispose of their resources. The funds that already belonged to them - no, it was not the law that went forward, but the post-festums, their salaries, which were not paid or are subject to valorisation, change and thus turn into an insurance portfolio. In this way we could actually extend the interpolation to the whole government. Let's get this over with. The result of this government’s action over the past four years or three and a half years is this. On average, pensions have been reduced by a good 5%. Thus, they did not fall during any ten-year period, as they did at the time when this coalition was in power. Therefore, interpellation should also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Dr. Brace's colleague now has the floor for you, Comrade Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in my presentation, I chose only a few key points of interpretation, because I didn't think it would make sense for me to repeat everything that was written in the paper and to which the Minister has already responded, and there are also my colleagues who will say more about this interpretation. So much for the Minister's explanation. Now I note that Mr Minister has actually read his answer, clearly written in advance, and now in this second part he is trying to answer some of the questions raised, and again I can see that the Minister is deceiving the public with his own answers, and we, who are putting the interpretation or which we have submitted, are trying to show as people who simply have no idea about these things. That is why, of course, I will show some concrete examples. For example, the Minister deceives when he quotes today, the report of the Court of Auditors on the Ministry of the Interior for 2002. When did we say anything about 2002? Have we ever mentioned an accounting court? Not once. So this statement of yours has nothing to do with interpolation. We were talking about 2001 and the State Audit Commission, but you didn't say anything about it. Let's take a look at the documents on the boat we're talking about. I have more than too and more interesting, Mr. Minister, different from those you have shown our colleagues who have visited you at your kind invitation. You didn't show everything you had. We have a contract here, annex No. 13, which is signed by Elex Unitrade, which is part of the tender documentation, because it must be, otherwise, if there is no contract pattern, you do not meet the conditions. Here we have the record, 18.12., quoted today, in which it is very clearly stated, here are all the members of the groups and so on what must be in this boat all signed - I will not state this; all signed. In short, the minutes of the interview and the negotiations concerning the call shall make tenders for the selection of the contracting authority without the invitation to tender for the purchase of a police boat, rescue and patrol fishing number and so on - this is the last act that the negotiations were concluded by the group concerned in the Ministry of the Interior. Then there's the contract to buy a police lifeboat that wasn't prepared by Elex Unitrade as a bidder, but by you, Mr. Minister. And you see, you have prepared this contract, as shown in the document of 8 March 2001, which is the last day of this tender period, not the date of the guarantee. And you know well that the guarantee expired on 27.12. And if the guarantee expires, then everything else is irrelevant. That's what you were warned about, but you didn't take that into account. I also have a contract here to issue a tolar guarantee for 15 million. If you thought that there was anything wrong with the procedure - and you had every right to think that, I do not deny it, you took your position on 1 December and you should decide on the investment, I don't know, 165 million, say. I understand your distress, but I'm asking you, why didn't you cash in a $15 million tolar guarantee if you thought the procedure was bad, inappropriate? Here I have a decision by the State Audit Commission, which says in its decision, I quote: "The request for review is justified. The procedure for awarding a contract with a direct contract after a call for the submission of the tender number - and so on - of 15.8.2000 for the purchase of a police and rescue patrol vessel number and so on shall be annulled in full." The current State Audit Commission has completely annulled this procedure - 14.6.2001 of this time is this document, and this document of the State Audit Commission makes it very clear, I quote: "In its assessment of the request for review, the State Audit Commission found that the contracting authority had infringed certain statutory provisions in the field of public procurement and transparency in the procurement process and thus reduced the possibility of signing the contract by the applicant and, consequently, unilaterally concluded that the procedure had been completed, so it decided, as set out in the sentence of this Decision. In accordance with Article 23 of the ZRPJN, the State Audit Commission does not have the power to replace by its decision the decision of the contracting authority to select the most favourable tenderer or any other decision in the award of the contract which is the subject of the dispute, so the award procedure of the contract in question has been annulled in its entirety. With regard to the irregularities and infringements found in the conduct of the proceedings of the award of the contract in question, the applicant shall have the possibility to enforce the recovery of the damage caused by the contracting authority before the competent court." This is the position or document signed by the President of the Senate and so on, the decision, the document of the State Audit Commission. I'm asking you not to make fun of us, this is the document I read from - it's not mine, I didn't write it - it's a state audit committee. Today you said you deliberately went and decided to make a new call. In your response to interpolation, of course, it is otherwise written - at stop 12. Two large paragraphs in which you say [[I can't read everything because it would take too long]] : "... the relevant documents and contracts signed by the Minister but not by the successful tenderer." Yes, of course it was not signed by the successful tenderer because it was no longer his contract. He signed his contract that he sent you, and you didn't sign those contracts, but you wrote yours. If at that time he sent you a second contract, which you signed, the question is why you did not sign it when it was necessary. Here you also say - which is also interesting, your informing someone who has applied for the invitation. Elex Unitrade, Ministry of the Interior, date 10.4., first sentence: "In the annex we send you a decision on the selection of the provider, which we did not accidentally attach to the letter, which we sent to you on 8.3. for signature on our side of the signed contract for the purchase of a police vessel" and so on. Well, and your signature and so on: So you can see here that you first sent a contract with your terms and then a subsequent decision on choice. But, Mr. Secretary, do you think that all this work after the expiry of the guarantee still makes sense, with a partner whose guarantee has expired? However, the procedure by law is irrelevant if there is no guarantee. The guarantee has to be! And if this runs out in December, everything else you've done by March is pointless. You said there was no harm done. I even think it was said that you even saved some millions. Yeah, I'm curious! Overpayment. Let's say the price difference is 27 million, and that's a little bit controversial, but we don't agree here, between 165 and 100, I don't know how much, or between 178 and 100, I don't know how much. All right, I'll let you know that there's different data here. Can you tell me, Mr. Minister, how much did you pay to rent another police boat at that time? According to the data we have, 3 million a month; if it's 24 months, it's a lot of money. Maybe you didn't pay for anything, but I already asked you, and you didn't answer. Elex brought an action or brought an action on the basis of a state audit committee of 20 million. You yourself mentioned that - therefore, you yourself have reduced the price of Jadran Sežan due to the delay, red according to the rules of the game and the contract unusual practice - you pay first and then enforce the penalty. But, okay, you're the law by your own interpretation, you've reached a perhaps more convenient payment this instant. But if Jadran Sežana sued, that amount could be significantly higher. I don't know what's gonna happen, but I'd like to remind you very much when that happens. Well, I told you before why you didn't order a serial craft. We weren't lucky to hear your answer either. So, I've presented some documents so we don't say we're talking. Then you keep saying that about the choice of a pension company. Mr. Minister, I'm actually embarrassed by what you just said. From the magnetogram that was produced today in this room, I need to read again what you said, the shortest possible [[Those are your words.]] . I will read only one sentence at the end when it says: "Conclusions of the pension plan contract under Articles 303 and 304 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act cannot be made subject to the rules of the second point of paragraph 2 of the Public Procurement Act. It is therefore quite clear in the section that the procedure was correct and that it is not a procedure under the law on public procurement." It's a quote from your debate today. I have a professional opinion here that you're referring to. This expert opinion does not contain this text. Now we can have different expert opinions. This is also possible, so I will read what the expert opinion says that I have and that, of course, says the following - on the back of the expert opinion. Professor Vesna Kranjc has been signed. "The specific choice of managers and management systems of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants in the Republic of Slovenia is subject to the rules on public procurement and therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must act on the conditions and procedures laid down in the UN1. The public publication, of 14 November 2003 and the selection procedure described therein do not meet the conditions laid down in the JIU 1. The affected tenderers may already, on the basis of the publication of 14 November 2003 [[Therefore, before the decision is taken]] , submit an application for an audit under the conditions of ZRPJN UPB 1, which has a suspension effect. After the contract has been concluded with the pension fund manager, where the contract has been concluded without a prior award procedure, an action may also be brought on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 113 of UNJN 1 to establish nullity." It's a different kind of thing. Third. By the way, you mentioned the complaint against the police and said how well organised this is now. The moment when the Senate reports a certain alleged offence or, I don't know, a police officer's misbehavior, is a question of the credibility of the case that the Senate is deciding on. Therefore, if the Senate depends on the opinion of another police officer to investigate the case in the appeal proceedings, this is not the same as if this Senate had itself investigated the case in the presence of other citizens. The Minister in his reply - somehow I must say that you have not answered the questions that we have asked. For example, I will allow myself to ask these questions once again, Mr Minister, and please, if you can answer them. First of all, with regard to this first point, around this 8th point, it is called so-called deleted. We have a whole series of your quotes here. At a meeting of the National Assembly: "It is necessary to adopt a law in order to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court." After: "The issue of supplementary decisions deleted without a legal basis would be illegal," and so on. You've made all these statements in this room. Today you say both solutions are legal. Thus, the issue of supplementary decisions deleted without a legal basis would be illegal. Now, how do we understand this confusion you're creating again? At the time you said otherwise, today you say: no, both solutions are fine. The questions raised here are: Why did you not decide to apply the constitutional decision directly when it was issued? In some face-to-face on TV, I asked your colleague, Mr. Potsch, and he said something similar here: "Yes, but then everything would fall on Mr. Bohinc's shoulders." And now he's going to say, "And how right I was at the time." But what would happen to the minister if he enforces the Constitutional Court's decision? Nothing if it's legal, if you do it right. But you went: once you need a marriage, then you don't need a marriage, then you realize today that it's okay if it's marriage and if -- I mean, that's not how it works. Ministers don't act like that, don't act like that, they have a point of view. It's not like there's one opinion today, it's another day's opinion and it's like the weather. That's not how it works. On the contrary, if we were consistent, we would say: OK, the Constitutional Court has decided that, here we have Mr Sturm's decision. I have nothing to ask other lawyers. But what weight do those other lawyers have, and if the Constitutional Judge, to whom you refer, sees that this can be done? I don't understand that. And then you come with a technical law, you know that we supported you in this, or else I think that technical law or law is the basis for the work of the administration, because it is also written in the constitution after all. You said something about how many shipments, if I understood correctly before, were sent, how many returned? It would be good to know the reasons why the shipments are coming back. What if these people are no longer in Slovenia or have long since left? And now, as soon as I see this, I ask, is Mr. Minister now in this procedure, when you make decisions, you check the data, you go from case to case? If you are going, then you are acting in violation of the Constitutional Court decision that said: everyone must be given. Because we were the ones who said: "They should be given if a case is to be found in the procedure. And then your Prime Minister said, "Yes, we'll go from case to case." And now that you're making decisions, whether this approach is selective or you're issuing them without even checking them, by alphabet or by any other criterion. I ask you: Why not arrange the status or those who tried to regulate their status if this is not a selective approach? Why don't you fix it - why do you give people the status of a permanent alien to those who didn't? Among so many thousands of people, some did not even demand it. But you put it in this package, even though you said earlier: who didn't file it at the time. It's just, what about at this time? You like to brag about how you're the only minister who's being intertwined for enforcing a Constitutional Court decision - or whether you're being praised, that's how. But you're probably the only minister making decisions without people asking for it. Why do you seek to settle back status for those who have acted against the independence of Slovenia who have made fun of our country? It seems fair to you, Mr Minister, that speculators who, when they should be, have not decided to regulate their status and today demand their rights back. Is it possible to mention one case where, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, decisions have been called back? He's not here! Just so-called deleted. This is not happening to Slovenian citizens to get something back. In the autumn of 2003, you claimed that no one in the title of the technical law would be able to claim compensation. You said that today, too. How can you claim this if a claim is filed? Aren't there courts here to decide that? So, I'm surprised by your vehement claim that that won't happen. I would be happy if it weren't, of course, and so far you haven't said anything about the alleged violations of electoral silence. But don't you think the Minister of the Interior should say something about predictions that someone would violate one of the key rules of democratic regulation of electoral silence? In a democratic country, that is not appropriate, but I have not heard it from you, nor from the Prime Minister, nor from the other tops of this country. Since certain circles have predicted this, this is, of course, perfectly fine for you. What are you going to do when these excesses occur? And what is your personal opinion about breaking the electoral silence? With regard to the boat you did not answer - if I am now returning to the question - was the contract you signed an integral part of the tender documentation? I can prove it wasn't, and you're saying you signed it the last day. You also did not tell us what seemed problematic to you in that treaty which could be signed by December 27th. You did not tell me why you did not enforce the bank guarantee if anything was wrong in your opinion. I allow it to be. Why did you order a whole bunch of extra checks from the commissions, which, of course, cost something but didn't matter? You don't mention them, you don't refer to them. I said before - given that experts advised Slovenia to buy a serial vessel: why didn't you choose a serial vessel; the way you see it, which can be asked about by those who already have one? Jadran Sežana and his supplier, or manufacturer, could not show any such boat to the Commission because they had never done exactly that. They've never built a boat like that before. They only showed you one, I don't know, picture of what he'd look like. No experience of that! On the other hand, the eminent experts you hired from the Ministry say: buy serial boats, which are substantially cheaper and tested, tested. You didn't answer that question! And the damage could be significantly greater than I said before. About the pension policy. Is such a solution, Mr Minister, in line with the objectives of pension reform? Why is this public service insurance called voluntary, but if public servants are unable to choose a pension company? Before you said, yes, this money is money - so this 2.4% that you should get on the payroll that you will get in the form of additional pension insurance, according to certain criteria and so on - everything is fine. But this money - when we said, yes, we should comply with the law on public procurement, you said, no, no, it's their money, from employees, they have the right to have it. But if, on the other hand, these people had to decide who they would give their money to, you said to them, "No, no, you don't have this right." That would be too late, giving some kind of closed fund, what you're going to make up now, that would take too much time. If I recall correctly our debate on this law, it is only now that money will be paid into this insurance scheme for public servants. That's what you'd say. There'd be time if it were just will. And when you talk about this today, it is better to have one strong capital company, a pension fund, according to Europe and so on - yes, according to this logic, it would be best for the whole of Slovenia to have only one bank, one insurance company, one another, one third. And, please, give yourself, well, a look at the features of the internal market in the European Union and you will see that such talk simply does not go right before it is included in the European Union. Okay, I don't say it before. He's crying. You said something about it today. You also said that negotiations with trade unions were scheduled to be concluded on 15 May. I sincerely hope that this will be the case and that this bill on the system of wages will be implemented, implemented or applied on 1 July, to shorten it a little. However, given that the negotiations have not yet begun, given that there are still endlessly open issues, and those difficult issues that need to be resolved, I fear that before 1 July we will have your third proposal in the National Assembly to amend this same law. So, do you still think it's the 1.7th period by which the law will be enforced? I said something earlier about the magazine, but I had to stop my discussion because of the time limit. Please, how do you comment on this fact that in the professional magazine your name appears only on the first four, five pages - because I have shown - nineteen times that you have two photos in the same magazine. So, I remember such local newspapers, Ljubljana was such a newspaper, and in Domžal we have such a newspaper where the mayor appears on each side at least once. It's not a newspaper -- well, that's a populism thing, it's easy because of me, but a professional magazine is designed for the profession. Please take a look at this, count it, if you want, I can help you with that because I've already marked everything, you can be mentioned more than once. I'm sorry, I stopped counting-- I'll just tell you-- that's what I'm saying, I counted the sixth, the seventh, the eighth and the ninth sides, and then I'm tired of it. In this magazine, as has already been said today, there are clearly political themes that do not have anything to do with the profession. If we compare this number to last year, for example, because I am monitoring it, I hope to say that there have actually been some important professional topics in this magazine that I have read with pleasure, but this number 1 in 2004 is an example of the abuse of a professional magazine for political purposes. This is because you are also a professor to me, you know, a good example when I explain the relationship between politics and public administration, politicisation of public administration - no matter what anyone else thinks. What can I say in the end? I can't believe I wouldn't be too much, how can I say, warned about passports, stickers, etc. I have already asked you these questions, but since we are talking about this in interpretation and you yourself have mentioned this today, I would ask you why you did not order revisions of the procedure for the production of passports and stickers, when it is clear that it is an exceptional wealth for the owner of Mirage, in which the former employee of the Ministry of the Interior is employed as a procurator, but he was a key person when Mirage was selected for the passport printing invitation. And since you've made up stickers, you'd do well to somehow tell the public what it's like now. How is that possible? Mr Bandelj was a key man at Mirag. That is to say, you have the opportunity to answer that question immediately. Thank you for reminding me of his master Bandley here today. So, why didn't you order the audit? Because the audit would show whether the price was justified. And while we are dealing with these matters, what is the real benefit of stickers, if we still have to carry a traffic permit with us, then the police are punishing us if we don't have one? And so on. In short, if I conclude now and add to this your political work in 1990, 1991, when it was known to the public: you were against plebiscite and against the independence of Slovenia. As Minister, however, you are working extremely hard for the citizens of other countries today. Thus, our citizens and citizens are clearly in a different way. Mr. Minister, I think there are so many serious allegations against you that you can shorten the matter by stepping down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Mr. Secretary, does he want to cut you down with some kind of explanation? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	Although I intended to respond only to a few documents presented here by Mr Brejc, but now I would reply a little more. First of all, this is the last one. I don't know where Mr Brejc got this information about me being against plebiscite and against Slovenia's independence - I have to deny it most categorically. In fact, without going any further in particular, you did not go any further than you did in the argument in this regard. As far as the boat is concerned. Like all political parties, I have also invited yours, Mr Brejc, to take a look at the documentation. You've seen the paperwork, and I'm sorry there's still so much misunderstanding on your part. I repeat, all the documents I have here, not only those mentioned in the reply, but also those I have referred to in my oral reply today and also any other documents relating to the question that you would be interested in, are available to you. It is therefore a shame that, on the basis of the lack of documentation, you come to claims that are not correct. Just a few proofs of that. Here I have a contract that is signed by me, which is proposed by me, which is signed within the deadline of option, and which is signed at 139 million. You're a professor of sociology or political science, and I'm a professor of law, and I know what an optional term is. This is the time limit that binds the tenderer who makes the offer. This contract was concluded within the time limit, i.e. the time limit which binds the tenderer, meaning that it was signed within the time limit allowing the conclusion of the transaction. Why didn't it come to work? Nothing would have been wrong if the contracting party had signed this contract at a price determined by the selection of the tendering commission. But this contractor simply didn't sign this contract, but he came in with a letter that it was worth 18 million more. I don't think you, Mr Brace, would sign such a contract. I didn't, and I know today that I did the right thing not to sign it. Because if I had signed it, then I would have violated the budget regulation of this year and would have worked not as a good master and as a good guardian of state property, but as someone who could easily sign 18 million higher prices. I did exactly the right thing not to do it and that I went to a new boat choice that ended very well with the boat that we bought - and this is again the next - for which we paid - you mentioned three, four numbers there, none of these are correct. I can tell you, if you look at the documentation, the exact number we paid is 145 million 083 thousand Slovenian SIT. Now compare this number with the 157 million, as offered by the contractor to whom you refer, and you will find that the argument for your 40 million suddenly fades. She's gone. But it's 12 million less than the price of that boat. Of course, you are now referring to any future decisions of a court in a fair trial. It's not very credible to refer to the Minister's charges, to some possible court decisions. And one more thing. You're right here. The contract I have proposed is the other one proposed by the Contracting Party. That's right. But the contract was never part of the tender documents, but it was proposed on the basis of negotiations between the two parties, as it did in the negotiations. What was different about this contract? Otherwise, what was explicitly commanded by the annual budget regulation that year. In view of the need to include the elements of temporary financing and to extend payment after full funding. These clauses, which I was obliged to include in the contract, because I was forced to do so by the budget rules, the contracting party did not want to adopt them. And such contracts, which would be contrary to the budgetary rules that would not contain the clauses required by our budgetary rules, or such a contract that would have cost 18 million higher prices, would not have signed such a treaty today. And I don't think any of the responsible people would sign it. Now there are some other questions that you have raised: why a serial vessel, why not a serial vessel, why this vessel? In the selection of the vessel, the minister has never let himself down, although there is something to be learned about these questions. But this is the responsibility of the expert commission of highly qualified people who have proposed precise technical facilities, which I have fully respected. Why not a co-conspirator, but a contract from the Ministry? I think I explained: because I protected the interests of taxpayers and because I proposed that treaty that protects the interests of taxpayers and this country. With regard to other issues relating to the pension fund, as regards the issues that were still open here, I would comment on them a little later. Now I'd say just the following. The revision of these contracts has been carried out in our ministry. We have found that all contracts are concluded in accordance with the rules then in force. We have even agreed with the co-contractor to hold the price increase on the passport until the expiry of the deadline. Thus, all this ex post verification was carried out and we acted as a good master. As for the magazine, perhaps as a professor of administration, you can accept the political assessment that there is something wrong with it, something politically suspicious that - I don't understand correctly - politically too much on one side or the other. I tell you, as a professor of law, that there is absolutely nothing contrary to the rules, that its content is determined by the Editorial Committee and that the Minister does not wish to interfere with his political positions, nor does he otherwise want to interfere with the contents of this magazine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Please, three minutes, mate Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	Very briefly. The State Audit Commission has spoken, I will not repeat. You didn't even touch her in your answer. In this document everything has been said about your procedure - it has been completely repealed. The contract pattern is not part of the documentation or you said, the contract is not part of the documentation. You can't run for office on any invitation to tender under the Public Procurement Act, and you as a lawyer should know that if you don't present a model contract. And this sample of the contract has number 13 in the file submitted by Elx Unitrade. Why did you only sign the contract on March 8th, which is within the time limit, as you say, but if you had already decided on a new invitation to tender, as you had just said? Mr Minister, you are in contradiction, because in your written reply to the interpretation, you are talking about how you signed everything and acted legally within the optional period, even now you have said this before, and in that second performance of yours you explicitly said, "I have consciously decided on a new invitation." This is said, clearly, you have decided on a new invitation to tender long ago, because in the budget you had 165 million in 2000 for the boat provided. The process was completed, you would have signed and the boat would have been in Slovenia in half a year, quite serially - I don't know about it myself, but your people, your commission, your experts said it was a good choice! In a year! And you had 165 million in your budget, but you didn't sign. And that's why I have to ask you one more question. Do you have anything - have you been involved in any privatisation process in the Adriatic Sea of Sežana? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on interpolation against Minister Bohinec does not surprise me in many ways, because there has been a lot of what we are hearing today. It surprises me so much more or - I even have to say - it is surprising that it is impossible for the motioners to accept the fact that the Constitutional Court, in a decision written on 22 December last year, explicitly stated in paragraph 19: "The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are mandatory and that the National Assembly is obliged to execute them within the deadlines set. Failure to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court constitutes a serious violation of the principles of the rule of law." Why am I quoting this? I repeat simply because it seems to me that the political discourse we have discussed with him regarding deleted witnesses has exacerbated polarisation in the Slovenian political space to the point that we have argued with each other and have managed to convince them that the failure to implement other decisions of the Constitutional Court is an obstacle to solving at least one of the problems we are facing. It is totally unacceptable, however, that from this political discourse, a feeling has really disappeared for the man and for the suffering and injustices of those people who have been wronged. To delete the core of the interpolation, I am also confirmed by the link to the 8th point of interpolation, which is aimed at the "professional and informative" magazine of the Slovenian Administration. I stress professionally and informatively, because if someone had enough patience to get through the 10th page, the bivendar, at least from the indicator, could see that according to the introduction written by the editor responsible for the incriminating number of the Slovenian Administration, Janja Klasinc, that this editorial is followed by a part called the News, and it is understandable that in this part, if this is the professional information magazine of the Ministry of Interior, the events described, the name of the Minister appears several times. However, I leave it to those who have not taken into the hands of all 12 figures of the Slovenian Administration to judge who is actually the one who writes in this magazine and how the magazine is conceived. Is this an expert magazine or not? After all, in this magazine we also follow Dr. Rajko Pirnat among the authors, and we follow interviews with all State Secretaries from the Ministry of Interior, including with someone else. It shows all the features of a well - arranged magazine, has the concept of an editorial, a novelty part, a bearing theme, a bearing theme related interview and then some other professional questions. Forgive me, in this magazine, in this issue, which receives such criticism and is attributed to political abuse, it is also possible to read Good Practices in Slovenian Public Administration 2003, Globalisation of Organised Crime [[Third continuation of this set of issues]] ‘Let's get to know the European Union and so on and so forth. Indeed, Article 3 of the Law on State Administration requires officials to do what they have to do in their work, but here we do have a periodical magazine, which, under Article 2 of the Media Act, shows that this publication, in which the edited programming content is published in such a way that it is accessible to the public. This is not a magazine intended only for civil servants, but a magazine of the Ministry of the Interior. If anyone doesn't like that public opinion research has also been published, which doesn't give a picture of the Slovenians of a very tolerant nation, then I would dare quote Gogol from the introduction: "Woe to the wise, don't owe a mirror if you have an ugly face." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Next, according to my list, is colleague Brenčič. My friend Brenčič is not here. Comrade Stemberger, he's not in the hall either. My friend Kremjar has a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much. At some point, I was thinking that it would be good for Dr. Council of Bohinca, the Minister, to put in an interpolation, so that I am very close to the initiators of this matter. This was at a time when he had not yet implemented the Constitutional Court decision and I thought why he did not do so. Then it happened. Now we have interpolation because it happened; of course, here I am very different from the interpolation initiators. I am deeply convinced that we are not in any post-evolutionary or even revolutionary period where it is possible to agree on everything on a market, even to lynch someone, if necessary, to agree on what legislation will be like, but to live in a normal country, where it is perfectly clear after elections, who does what, where there is a constitutional court, that these decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, whether I like them or not - but I do not like them, but I must respect them, and so on and especially the government and the minister. Of course, talking about the Minister's interpelling the Minister because he was doing what he was supposed to do even faster than he was doing is, of course, a great irony. And that's the basis of this interpolation. But all the other things are, I'm not gonna say, funny, but they limit a little to humor even. If this is not so dangerous, it might be easier to tolerate these other parts, but the one I am talking about is not only problematic in relation to the Minister of Bohinec, but it is problematic in relation to the name of the rule of law and the concept of a system, how it works and therefore dangerous, because it leads in a direction - not a constitution, not a constitutional court, not a state that is so conceptual and must be implemented, but in another direction, we will now agree on how it will be. Of course, I don't want to be a part of this. For other things, in my opinion - the damage of time and the greatest favor to all of us and the people of Slovenia would be done by radios and television broadcasters if they decided not to tolerate these sessions, because then the attention would be significantly smaller and people would not be as dismayed as they are now when they listen to all of us and wonder, as some yesterday, how it would be and how it would be possible to interpret the National Assembly. I also got that question, and I answered that it was an election. And that's where we'll be intertwined. So much for this job. That's all. It's a second interpolation. There'll be a few more before the election, and a few more deleted, and a few more similar stories, because it's easy until the election. Therefore, of course, such interpretation, which has absolutely no basis, I cannot support in my judgment even in my dreams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Comrade Barovich, now you have the floor. Let me just take a look at it. Comrade Pohorec [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you, President. I don't have much time. I'm referring to point one. Please hold your comments. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Please, please. 30 seconds to go. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	Mr Minister, you said in an apology for issuing decisions at 15:47: ‘No one has the right to question the Constitutional Court, or otherwise to question.’ That's not true! Democracy has doubts. The Constitutional Court was the first in the United States of America to have an instrument of doubt in the Constitutional Court. You said that the technical and financial law had no financial implications, so you said that the claims had been filed, indemnity - colleague Saša Peca asked you specifically if you could please tell us at what level. I'm asking you again. Can you say in concrete terms, in tolars, at what height?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. There's no friend of the Horatio. So Comrade Petan has a word. Please. Yes, you need to speak from your place, for this to be recorded on your computer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, just a few words about the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court or the so-called deleted. The referendum is constantly being discussed, including by you, Mr. Minister, on human rights. I really want to know which legal act states that permanent residence is human rights. I wouldn't mind writing it in principle, but I don't know this act yet. That means because it's not written anywhere, that means it's a deception. That means it's a delusion. And this deception creates confusion among people and because such information comes also abroad, of course there are also sometimes questions about what happens in Slovenia, as if we are all xenophobic. But if you explain to these people that we gave 10% of our citizens citizenship 13 years ago without bringing any other document than the fact that they once paid their rent, that is to say that they were living somewhere, grasping their heads, and having a different feeling that they didn't understand how we could have done it so kindly, they would have wondered whether we were really xenophobic or something like that - especially if we had explained it to the Swiss how kind of kindness we were. Of course, it's about people who, at the time, procedures to get to this really cheap citizenship -- there were a lot of them, the cinemas wanted to do it. And today they are calling for so-called deleted, and many of them do not want to have Slovenian citizenship today, but they would sue the country and have money, not for small money, but for big money. I hope to say, although I haven't heard from you yet, but from your circles that they won't go to Sunday's referendum, I'm sure most Slovenians think otherwise that they know what this is about, that they'll go to the referendum and probably vote against it. However, I would like to address you directly with regard to claims of compensation. You've stated that no compensation will be paid either way. It's true that not directly, but you didn't mention that they won't. However, it does not matter what the final consequences will be, whether it will be direct under this law or indirectly through actions such as these or otherwise. And since we know how the judicial system works with us, we know that this would be much worse for Slovenia. That, indeed, there is something about compensation, you too, Mr Minister, have been personally denied by a representative of the so-called deleted Magi. The culprit who said that the compensations would be such that Slovenia could not pay them in one year, so they are ready for a longer period of years. This was the statement of this representative here in the National Assembly. You later claimed to limit these damages. And now we ask ourselves what the problem is now; why, first, such statements, then they are different. The fact is, we find it hard to believe that there will be no compensation. Because if you change your mind, first they're gone and then you're going to limit them, then there's got to be something wrong - that they'll probably be. And we all know they will. And that is why I am confident that those who go to the referendum on Sunday will vote against it. The fact is that you initially claimed that these two laws were necessary and that there was no other way. Then you claimed that the laws were not even necessary, and now you are making decisions, even though we do not have one law, the other is not yet in force - or the first one is not in force - and we still have no other one, and now that you are implementing decisions, about one third of them are returned. This is something similar to 1990, 1991, when we warned these people to arrange their documents. I would then have been in the congregation administration, otherwise in a different congregation, and I know what we were getting back - a bunch of these letters and some were even painted in that southern style. Forgive the expression, but that's because I saw them myself, I saw them myself, it's said that someone got them in hand and drew something up, it's said he didn't want to accept it. And these people are now saying how they're going to sue the state of the Republic of Slovenia. Generally speaking, what can be unfair, I hope that these people cannot have these decisions. Of course, in the meantime, there are also those who are likely to be justified, and they need to be dealt with individually, and we have also proposed this in the SDS, but of course there was nothing out of this. I doubt that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want to pay compensation, I doubt, and I think they will make that clear on Sunday. Now, Minister, allow me to remind you of one small thing. On Thursday we discussed the Law on Defence and the SDS tabled an amendment to allow permanent members of the military composition who worked in territorial defence and were members of the manoeuvre structure of national protection and to participate in preparations for the independence of Slovenia in order to have an era of expansion. That's where we hear there's no money for that. And when I did a little math, I found that only five of these people who were considered to have been erased exceeded the total amount, as if it were those people who were involved in the preparations in 1991 and were members and so on. This is said to be only five such actions are greater than they would have made a civil duty to these people who participated in the preparations for independence in 1990 in order to be given to them so that they can also be taken into account in the period of increase. There was no money for these people, and we could hear it on Thursday, but here we could hear that there was no money we couldn't pay for this erased. Yeah, listen, where are we, where do we live? And one more thing, Mr. Minister, you have boasted that you will probably be the first minister to be intertwined because he respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so that you will be intertwined. Minister, I can tell you that you're on the wrong track. The solution you are proposing is wrong, harmful to Slovenia and unacceptable to Slovenia. You're not being misinterpreted because you're implementing constitutional court decisions, but because you're proposing a wrong law. And you're still insisting on the wrong. I want to tell you that it is not only a solution that you are proposing, so you are the representative of the body that is proposed - so we understand - that this solution is not the only one that is saved, that your only view of the resolution of this decision of the Constitutional Court is only saved, and that this content of the law that you are proposing is not the only one that expresses that will or the decision of the Constitutional Court. It's a delusion, it's a delusion! Surely there are more ways to express the will of the Constitutional Court, but the fact is that you do not accept a different way of thinking, or a different way of thinking, or a dialogue so that this problem can be solved in any other way. What you've proposed is final for you and we can't talk about anything else at all, but now that we want to check it out in human will, and if it falls - now, of course, also because you don't want to talk about it, it's interpretation - and then you say you're being intertwined because you're issuing decisions by the Constitutional Court. That's not true! It's only partly true, you're trying, you could say that. That's what we're giving you. You're trying. But since we've been trying to tell you that maybe the path is wrong, you don't want to talk about another way. That's the problem. That's your problem. And the fact is that we have previously heard that this is some revolutionary act, and I would like to tell you something else - that there is no sin in democracy, as we have heard from this side: have your opinion and say your opinion. And there is no sin to allow otherwise thinking to express their opinion and to have their place, of course, if they are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, if they have done everything - what we need to understand - that we must also listen to them and that they must be considered a normal and necessary part of a democratic society, but not automatically reject all their proposals; and also sit with them at the common table, looking for other solutions. And people are also calling us to get along, not just the other side. They also call us, of course, with a different content. And since people also understand what such a solution means to the Constitutional Court's decision, they will certainly express it at the referendum on Sunday. I am sure that they will vote against, even those who think that way, who also feel threatened, because of the arrogance of the ruling majority - we are not talking about the parties now, but we are talking about the ruling majority. They therefore participate in the referendums and express their will. And so it has been so far, except for one time, probably, even a little for a vague question, all the referendums have gone to the detriment of the government. And there's a similar case. You don't want to listen to us, you don't want to look for another way, because you think Ljubljana only comes one way. There are many ways to come to Ljubljana. One might be a little longer, but it's asphalted, and the other's shorter, and maybe just across the field, but it's coming. But that you, now that you claim that only one path is possible, but everything else is xenophobia, you have the wrong assumptions. And here's the problem with interpretation, not because you respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because you don't want to listen to others and say that only one way is right. And the moment you get to know and when your advisors will be - I know that you have counselors who advise you when you ask why they advise you and what advisers you have and after all, it may not matter to your advisers, because you are the one who answers. But you have to ask yourself who advises you and who you listen to in counseling and deleted. I'm sure your advisors made the wrong decision to give you the wrong advice, but you have, unfortunately, listened to them. So much for those deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Now she has the word of a colleague of Zupanov. Behind you - just to see that my colleagues prepare - my colleagues Yuri, Rokavec, Vukko and then my colleague Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with so-called deleted, you really have no luck. Not only is the interpretation filed against you, there will be a subsequent legislative referendum on Sunday, but a new referendum already appears on the horizon, but it has not always shown you that badly. After the Constitutional Court issued a decision after four years, you and ten experts in constitutional and administrative law struck heads and the idea was born: we will resolve the deleted ones in two laws, which you gave them quite unusual names to separate them from each other, you named one "technical", and the other "systemic law". And it all shows that there were two marriages just in case: if one got stuck, the other would have a better chance. The satisfaction was perfect, they would have been wiped out under the roof and voters would have been assured. However, the matter went as you wished. Mr Minister, you are responsible for the confusion that has arisen following the decision of the Constitutional Court, because you have not provided for the resolution of problems under the Constitution, you are responsible for legal complications, for material damage and inequality before the law; therefore, you are responsible for the inadequate enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, for the failed law that we will decide on Sunday at the referendum. You wanted to take the so-called technical law even after a reduced procedure and so important decisions that could entail substantial material resources in the form of damages and recognitions of status to all those who have sinned against independent Slovenia, you tried to take it quickly and briefly. And here's your responsibility and you're writing me an arrest policy against taxpayers. It was only at the request of the opposition that the draft law was dealt with on a regular basis, with numerous criticisms, comments and additions that you did not take into account in the debates. Mr Minister, you have choked to see that law is passed in order to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. At the 31st session, 25.11.2003, you stated, inter alia, that I quote: "Those who claim that administrative decisions are permissible to be issued directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court" End of quote. You also defended such views after the Council of State voted veto and at the time of the re-voting of the National Assembly. After the 30 Members' request for a subsequent legislative referendum was filed, you began to change your views and announced the issue of decisions without a legal basis. And that's what you did. You have violated the principle of the rule of law, the fourth paragraph of Article 153 of the Constitution and the 155th of the Constitution. The decisions that your government issues are also illegal, and as such, I am sure they will not comply. And if the citizens vote against Sunday in the referendum, these decisions will not only be illegal but also illegal. Mr Minister, you are also responsible for legal complications, in particular when voting on the date of the referendum invitation, when members of the ruling coalition voted against and knowingly violated the legal deadline. On 9.1.2004, the Nova Slovenija Group invited you to step down on the grounds that attempts by the ruling coalition and you, as well as by the minister, to prevent the holding of the referendum on the so-called deleted, lead to increasing complications that neither the coalition nor the Minister are able to resolve. At that time, we considered that, as a result of such conduct, the rule of law was in danger and that we would leave the post of Minister of the Interior to a more competent person who would not have been involved in solving this issue so far and who could find an appropriate way out of the crisis. You are responsible, Mr. Secretary, for material damage and inequality before the law. It should be said that Slovenia was the only one in Europe with Article 13 of the Constitution law to offer the most generous offer to all citizens from other republics of the former Yugoslavia, in order to be able to choose Slovenian citizenship or foreigners with permanent residence with the appropriate role. An application for one of the status was the duty of all citizens of other republics and also some of the Slovenians who have lived in other republics until now and have not settled their status here. Many, however, were unable to enforce these legal options because they were neither present nor present in the country, or they did not want to do so at the time. People in other republics who have settled their status in time cannot believe that those who have not done so would have the right to compensation. I am confident that citizens and citizens will vote on Sunday in the referendum against such solutions as you have advocated, Mr Minister, to inform you and your government that it is necessary to resolve the problem of so-called otherwise deleted, by means of a constitutional law that can separate a minority of beneficiaries from the majority of the unjustifiable and in these cases legally restrict damages. Respected citizens and citizens, do not sit with the Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, who has publicly stated that he will not attend the referendum. I'm sure he knows that marriage is bad. Maybe he'll go pick up the bells so we don't see him blush. And, to put it mildly, with all the peripetions that have happened to the so-called deleted, you, Mr. Minister, should be blushing too, because it is imperative that you have an interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Now he has the words of his colleague Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you, President. If you allow me, Mr Interpol and the coalition colleagues you support, the game you are going to, in my opinion, is not only irresponsible, it is also corrupt and perverted. The story with the deleted was cooked by you at the time you were accompanied by Demos and self-inflicted euphoria diverted attention from such things. First of all, you, those who were at the Demos trough at the time, imposed a system of citizenship that was discriminatory and challenged by a principle that is also protected by a number of international conventions, and that is that no one has the right to push into apathy, that is, into a state without citizenship. Well, let me explain why she's upset with this principle. When we went our separate ways, we were all SFRJ citizens and the agreements between the republics of a decomposed federation, which would stipulate the granting of citizenship by protecting everyone from apathy, there was no one. Even then, some of us who sat in this hall were alerted to this situation. And from the mouth of the Prime Minister, the then government, Mr Peterlet received an answer that everything was in order from this point of view. Later it turned out that, of course, Comrade Peterle was still lying to us as Prime Minister because many of them were still in a stateless space. And why is it discriminatory? Because the equal citizens of the SFRJ have been divided into two categories of permanent residents and electoral beneficiaries of Slovenia. On those who received citizenship at home, with regular mail, without blinking a finger for it, and on those who had to deal with bureaucracy in order to reach it, where they lived permanently, as they were born. The discrimination and the determination of two categories of people is therefore your butter, I would say to my colleague Brejc, who talked a lot about this in the very explanation of interpolation. We both received the same call to vote for the independence of Slovenia a year ago, at the invitation of the plebiscite, and the same guarantee of a leading policy that we will not be deprived, or of our hair, of the rights enjoyed within the Federation. And on those of the 200,000 who had to deal with bureaucracy, but did not get along well, you let go, and, of course, in today's sin, we still have an ax erased from the records of permanent residents. The Constitutional Court has shown us that this was wrong, contrary to constitutional principles, and that we were obliged to eliminate the wrong wrong. It also showed us how. The Minister is following this order today, and you wrote him an interpellation. And here, perversion and corruption are visible. Indeed, we have also experienced the unfortunate story of the technical law. But let us again tell all those who are watching us that this law, at the moment you pushed it to a referendum, became unnecessary, according to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, in the sense of fulfilling what was commanded. And if the law is unnecessary and replaceable, as the Constitutional Court says, with the direct issuance of supplementary decisions deleted, just as it has already been done and will expire some week after the referendum, romance on voters on Sunday is unnecessary or unnecessary. The outcome of this vote will have no legal effect, only participation will benefit the initiators and advocates of the demonstration of muscle to the government and coalition, and only 600 million tolars will be spent. So if I borrow Martin Arrow and some mattress, people don't buy it. Stay home on Sunday and do something more useful and enjoyable. Two more words on the story of the police boat. What the Minister couldn't tell us is what those incriminating P-66 are telling us and know exactly what his abilities and characteristics are. They tell us that it is much better than P-111, that its procurement has followed significantly more the tasks entrusted to it, and the legality of our sea, than the acquisition of a predecessor for whom it is hoped, Mr Minister, so that this time it will be more serious and more sustainable. Why not a serial vessel? I'd like to answer my colleague Brejc here. Because such a vessel that meets the needs for which it has been procured is simply not available. Neighbors carry out these same tasks with different vessels that are more standardised. Police, carabiners, finance, coast guard, off-limits, everyone has their own specific vessels. Ours is multi-purpose and can hunt, control, defend, save and do more. And of all of whom, according to those who deal with it, the concept of the emerging coast guard is the most responsible. By the way, colleagues and colleagues, the interpreters, I also find that you only get to know each other at sea when you come on vacation, when you touch your neighbors and attract nuclear ships over which we have no control. In short, if I paraphrase one of you, I'd say this interpolation isn't worth the paper it's written on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much, colleague Yuri. Now he has the word of a colleague of Franci Rokavec. Please, Comrade Rokavec, follow you, Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members and Members. Frankly, by 4 February this year, I still hoped that Dr Bohinc's minister was actually a hostage in the story deleted. On 4 February, it was definitely clear that this was not the case. What happened then? The Minister simply succumbed to pressure in his own party and pressure in the largest government party and began issuing supplementary decisions, so-called deleted. At the time when the most overheated political atmosphere was the political spectrum in our country, namely, two days earlier, most in the National Assembly rejected the proposal for a decree on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, a grave violation of the Constitution, the President of the Republic also had to speak. And in that overheated political climate, when it is necessary to calm the passions, stop the horses, the minister pulls his move and begins to issue supplementary decisions. To issue supplementary decisions on the basis of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, directly, without a legal basis, as our Constitution clearly states, that, of course, the rules must be based on laws and other general acts. But everything is nice and right if it were not so sensitive and if it were not so delicately divided by a political body in our country. I believe that this, for the first time, was an illegal act, and for the second time it was very careless and harmful for the dying of political passions in our country. The policy is still failing to resolve this issue, and it is still looking for a solution. The first solution will certainly indicate the people's introduction to the referendum. However, the solution will be much more difficult than it would have been to wait a few months to issue complementary decisions on an appropriate policy solution. In his defense, the Minister said that in two options, in an option to defend constitutional democracy, or in an option to prevail over the rule of daily politics, he decided exclusively for the first, the latter. Here. I believe that all Slovenian policy is building on the need to strengthen constitutional democracy. However, it is wrong to believe that all decisions of the Constitutional Court in any country are absolutely fair and that they cannot be resolved in any other way. In our country, we had solutions that we otherwise solved, such as a similar case four years ago. We also have cases in other countries, in neighbouring Austria, in the United States, where some of the questions were raised when they found that this eminent judicial authority might have rushed in its decisions and resolved the issue differently. In this particular case, there was no time; there was no courage to set the time needed to settle the issue. I'm sure if the willingness of all the actors in this story was not necessary on Sunday nor should there be a referendum. The issue of complementary decisions was also one way of disqualifying, minimizing one of the basic elements of people's decision-making, says the referendum. Just because the referendum might have a smaller weight - I am sure it has a bigger one now, after all these acts that have been done with irregular steps - this step has also been taken to speed up the issuance of complementary decisions. And this is the obvious to the Minister, in whom I expected, even when this interpellation was put in, that it would also prevail here with the Minister, and he will himself assess that, in fact, not only because of his mistakes, but because he has succumbed too much to the pressure of his party, the biggest government party, has drawn his conclusions, and he has denied the debate here in Parliament today. Now, if I touch on some of the questions raised by Mr Minister, that no charge of interpretation can be held back. That's not true. The first charge that he has taken care of the illegal and irregular enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision has already proved to be a definitive finding. The issue of supplementary decisions shows, of course, that the rule in the Constitutional Court decision itself does not resolve matters even if it followed the proposed law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. In fact, it would be necessary for each individual to check his or her status. This is also demonstrated by decisions which have not been taken. However, the second issue raised by the issue of supplementary decisions is, of course, a matter of compensation. By ratifying all the countries of the former republics, the successors of the former Yugoslav State, the so-called Vienna Agreement, exist in the area of pension and disability insurance. And that is the question that would apply at this point also to re-expose. I am convinced today that it would be much better if all the activities, both ministries, governments and parliaments dealing with the necessary legislation, stopped to wait for the people's decision, which is the only true arbitrator at this point in their decision on this issue. I have told you once that it has been a failure of such a constitutional court, that the government and the National Assembly have denied it, in all the chronology of this story, and that it is necessary to start again, and of course people should say it at the referendum. So much for a little while. I am confident that Sunday's voters will also make clear their opposition to such a law. I believe, however, that it would be most responsible for the Minister to withdraw before the vote on the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much, colleague Rokavec. Now my friend Wolf has the word. Behind him is a colleague of Dr. Bernick's and then a colleague of Rupar's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpretation of Dr. Rad Bohintz's work is, like yesterday's, a pure farce. In particular, I am convinced of this by the time the interpolation is put into place. Interpellation is an entirely legitimate tool for the opposition in parliamentary democracy. There's no denying it. However, if this is the case only a few months before the elections, there is unreserved doubt as to its meaning, correctness, especially if its contents are taken into account. I'm pretty sure there's a rabbit in the other bush. The aim of the proposal is, above all, to try to evaluate the work so far, not only the Minister of the Interior, but also the work of this government and the work of this ruling coalition. I believe that this is an interpolation that seeks to achieve even the resignation of the government, but more realistically, to gain as many political points as possible, even by misleading, misleading and manipulating. This is proved by Dr. Miha Brejca's statement on TV Slovenia on 28.02.2004 when asked by the journalist: "Will you succeed with the interpretation? He said, "We've already made it through the interpolation by putting it in." Isn't that a self-explanatory statement? Why are such efforts made by fellow Brejc during today’s session, and why are we even discussing it? What about the content of the interpolation? I will focus on just one question or point of interpretation, on what I believe is its essence and I consider as a fundamental reason for its submission. This is a matter of deleted or evidentiary effect relating to the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. At this point certain things need to be put in the right place. Certain facts need to be highlighted once again, although to whom it would seem unnecessary in this Chamber and would disagree with the allegations. First, let us ask: Who caused the question of the deleted? We are talking about the deleted because in 1992 the then Demos government adopted a law that wiped the country out of the register of permanent residence of the circus of 18,000 foreign people, which has not informed them. The Constitutional Court found that such conduct was illegal and unconstitutional. They were not among these people and are only speculators, opponents of independence, members of the JNA, but they were and are, and they are the most, even those who do not deserve such qualifications and have nothing to do with it. Everyone in the country of law deserves to be informed when they interfere with his rights and legal benefits in the way they do in the country of law. And what is the minister’s fault in this regard? If anything, then he did not begin to issue the decisions of the Constitutional Court by issuing the decisions of the beneficiary referred to in point 8a of the decision of the Constitutional Court which was wronged. I resent that myself. The Minister's perceptions that his two-faced conduct creates confusion and inequality in front of the law and in the public arouses intolerance and hatred, goes beyond all limits and is a typical diversion. Who created the confusion? In my opinion, they have created confusion among the applicants of the unnecessary referendum on technical law, which will be held on Sunday, although the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed that there is no need for technical law, that it is necessary to abolish unconstitutionality in this part, that the Minister has a direct basis for issuing decisions and that he must also do so. If the Minister hadn't done it, at least as far as I'm concerned, the interpretation would have been more than justifiable. Who created the inequality before the law? The inequality arose at the time of the disappearance when the country deleted only members of the countries of the former Yugoslavia and not other foreigners with permanent residence in Slovenia, such as Argentina, Taiwan, Mauritius and other countries. Who created impatience and hatred? I personally assess, but it seems important to me that the issue of deleted persons should be resolved as soon as possible to clear the table and thus allow for some kind of patient dialogue. It is interesting, however, how the opposition colleagues represent a solution that has been deleted. They made this clear in their request for a preliminary referendum on the system law, which contained 7 clear questions on how to resolve the issue of the deleted. By its decision, the Constitutional Court gave the opposition a clear slap because it found that all the essential issues, namely 5 out of 7, were completely and clearly contrary to the Constitution. Of course, members of the opposition do not make this clear, which is quite clear. To me, however, it proves that the opposition has been defending views on the issue of the deleted all the time, which are clearly contrary to the Constitution. All of this shows that we have just those who believe that the contents on deleted, on the affairs and, finally, on yesterday's and today's interpolation are intended only for the collection of political points, without, of course, collecting methods and resources, and not considering how many of us will be called and announced referendums. The question is also raised regarding morality, the so-called dual morality, especially for those who read the articles in the newspaper Mladin, dated 15.3., which refers to the fact that in 1991, officers of the JNA, who were known to have actively participated in the aggression against Slovenia, were placed in high positions in the Slovenian army. Looks like there's at least a few deleted in this group. If it's not a paradox, then I don't know what it is. Today, too, one of the many manipulations was heard, as if the Slovenians did not know the law to correct the injustices behind them. Come on! What about denationalization? What about the return on investments in the telecommunications network? What about the correction of the injustices to victims of post-war beatings and so on? I therefore believe, given the essential part of the interpretation, that the applicants have in no way justified their request or the proposal that Minister Rado Bohinc ceases to serve as Minister, so I will not support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Dr. Brace wants to explain because he was wrongly cited in the debate by his colleague Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr Vukko said only the first part of the sentence, in which I said at the press conference that we had already achieved our goal of interpolation, and here is what is missing - namely, the opposition is obliged to inform the Parliament and the public of the wrong, inappropriate, illegal and other actions of any minister. By preparing and filing the interpolation, we have done the first part of our task; we are doing the second part today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	Comrade Dr. Joseph Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we have a very important event in our Parliament, this is an interpretation against the interior minister. And the Home Secretary isn't any minister, it's a minister that all people in the previous system used to fear and know exactly what it is. In fact, we do not know so much about ours, but I can say that it came from the old regime with all the baggage of the regime of the day and that the concept of human dignity and human rights was fully known because it did not exist, except theoretically, in this regime. And no wonder he stood up for the old Yugoslavia after we were freed. It seems to me that our people should know a little bit more about what Mr. Minister has under him in his department. He's got all the civil service personnel in his hands, and they're blocking everyone who's not the same uniforms. He has the entire police apparatus in his hands, he has all the information about us citizens, and he and the State Secretary are blocking every study of those terrible beatings that have taken place after the war and are now marked with a capital Z crime in the Slovenian language. This gentleman is trying to explain to us what human rights are. Can you imagine that? What are human rights, and how should the Constitution be respected? You used to have a constitution, and you accepted it when you wanted it. I'll say a few more things about all those who may not yet know what's going to happen on Sunday, what's going on. It is true that some people were deprived of their rights at the time, it is true that nothing happened, not before, not in your government and you waited for the right time to throw it out. If this isn't political manipulation, then it's nothing. We have never opposed the decision of the Constitutional Court in our party, but we have strongly rejected the manipulation of these two parties. I think that everything that happens here is absolutely undignified and dishonorable and you are in a role, Mr Minister, in such a role that is undignified and also undignified. When it came to doing something, your government was waiting, and now you're trying to pull this thing off. One forerunner said where all this hatred was coming from, etc. Of course, he said, the opposition. You know what I'm saying, those of you who came from the old regime, not those who were children back then, are political children of the hatred of revolution and all and the privileges of everything that happened to us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	Peace. Please, everyone is responsible for their words. Please keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	What I said, I said, and I told those of you who were children at the time of independence, you don't have this stain, but now you're taking it, it seems.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	Please, for peace in the hall. First, mate, Dr. Bernick, just a moment. Can I warn you again? Everyone has the right to his or her position, everyone is responsible for him or her, the President cannot always intervene in the debate and assign these responsibilities, everyone is responsible for his or her views, but please give them in such a way that others, not those in the Chamber, not outside it, will not feel that they are affected. Please, Comrade Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	I'll be done. I said what I meant, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart. I have also been erased, I have never complained, nor against you, nor against anyone else, and therefore give to all the rights of human dignity, not only to those who have been erased, for I say, some deserve this, but for others to be examined and then we will consider. This is the right state of law, we're not falling down here, I don't know what we want, and then you don't even have the most basic human sense of what your ancestors did 50 years ago. And you're not ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Please! You know I can't give you my word for the replica because he didn't mention you in his performance. I'm not gonna repeat what I said. My friend Rupar has the floor. Please, my friend Rupar has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Peace in the hall! Buddy Rupar, just a minute. I call upon all of you to be quiet and allow the speaker to have a word. Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Twenty seconds is often important in this national council, for if others spend them, the one they belong to is deprived. First of all, we're talking about interpretation. Those who say that interpolation is put in at the wrong time do not mean it or do not know life’s experiences. It would be very difficult to intercede against anyone at the beginning of their term of office, as this would seem very similar to the fact that a couple would be required to divorce immediately in advance, not when one of them works poorly or does not understand one another. I am very much at risk with this performance, definitely, given the warnings of individual colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy and the United List. This is because the pursuit that is against some who are not equal before the law is great in this country. I've been warned that it will be as bad as it has been since my executions about deleted, but I'm taking a risk. I am at risk because I have a clear conscience, and I am at risk because I am sure that people also need to know the other side of the medal or the truth, and I do not care what happens. I'm not gonna get down on my knees before I'm scared. And also, if Kacin says "you're in the mud a hundred times and if you don't rest, you'll blink more, you'll climb deeper," I don't care. I feel sorry for Mr. Minister, who has been under real stress ever since you started buying votes when you were erased or erased. I say this because I know him differently, and I know that he is in an unenviable position, but believe me, Mr Minister, it is not a matter of opposition and those who have submitted the interpretation that you are in such a state. The type of readings was given today, including about the boat, in fact about the boats, since there are quite a few or two of them. I am pleased to have met in this national assembly a person who is very familiar with boat types and correctness. I'm not an expert on boats and very difficult on types and size, and I don't know what I'm talking about, I just remember one of the boats burned down after 14 days. This was seen in the media, I think it was the last boat, and that from the data that is in the media and the public, we can assume that this boat is more on repair than in the water. But I have one of my own experiences in the last year, when a German sailer in the Piran Bay carried a storm against the coast, because he couldn't get rid of himself, and a police boat couldn't get to him because he wasn't real. That was the definition or so they said on the beach. So, even if I don't get to know the boats, I know that there's something wrong with what's floating on our sea. However, the stories with these boats are already so funny that I could say that the jokes about Albanian submarines, which travel every so long to the surface so that rowers can catch the air, are now turned around, that Albanians are making a fool of Slovenian police boats and beating similar jokes. So much for boats. I have a specific question. If there is a suspicion of irregularity or criminality, corruption or bribery or rapid enrichment, I am interested in Mr Minister, if anyone has ever checked with the Slovenian passport manufacturer from where he has so much money that in a short time, let's say, six months ago, he can buy the state-of-the-art Mercedes type 500 and I don't know how much and for the surface of the survival helicopter or for his hobby. In fact, police have already initiated brutal investigations against some in this country with only a hint, but of course they do not know what is going on in this country long before they are concluded. You can see this in Mr Wolf's very modern and very clever reading mentioned earlier. Why only some are leaking information from the police, of course it is part of the question or part of the minister's responsibility. In fact, before the law they were all supposed to be equal and human rights in that country were supposed to apply to everyone. So I know at least two cases in this house, in this National Assembly, when one constantly with a full name and surname as a suspect appears in various media, while, even at last night's session, someone on the right side, Liberal Democracy, with a finger of the jungle and screaming, what about the ramp, what about the ramp, and he is involved in a traffic accident with a fatal outcome, about which there were also strange circumstances in the public, changing drivers, the influence of alcohol and not knowing what else. Read Mag last year. Are we the same before the law, or in this case, did the person who called it know in advance that the protection of the police, the criminals, the investigation, the State Prosecutor's Office and in these parties and in this National Assembly will be complete? So, you protected his ass, and he's hoping to talk and wave like he did last night. And now there's something else that's been erased. I am very happy that this story has finally begun and that it will take place in a way that we can guess, but we expect. On Sunday, there will be a referendum where, of course, I expect and call on all people to participate and vote against it, because this will vote against the compensations required by those who are literally offering them and sharing decisions and, of course, their homes back. I deny the fact that the problem of the deleted caused the polarisation of the Slovenian political space. No! No! It was a step from one mind to polarization. But if you come from one mind into two different shores or interpretations or options, then we've already taken a step towards democracy. And I'd be happy to see more than just polarization coming out of this. I am sure that in this country, Slovenian citizens have been wronged so much that it is powerless or, in fact, pointless to speak to them by decisions and by entering so-called re-examined any human or any other injustice. In this country, injustices happen and happen daily. I've mentioned one of these myself. But once again, more than ever, I ask when it will be the turn of those who do not have housing rights, who still have unjust support, because they are unemployed or do not have any, where are the rights of those who, at last, have served in the occupying and aggressor military military service, then all of us who were there have been forced to take one year of life. And that year I was also, excuse me, shorter working hours, not a year of life, yes, I can also say one year of life, then I was, forgive me, deleted, there I was under duress, otherwise a rebel and also punished, but I am interested in when this country will be to these soldiers, who are now no longer, thank God, but many of them are hiding among those erased, these officers, when this country will settle that year for us all who have to spend it for even greater nonsense than they did. If any of the things in my life were complete nonsense, it was serving that army. Therefore, given the number of injustices that this government has caused to a large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot support the Minister if I would like him as much. I have to admit that I like a lot of things you've done, but with regard to what's going on here, and what's the subject of interpolation, the tongue on the scale has gone too far, so I'm going to regret, and I'm going to consciously support the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. My friend Kontic now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. The addressee of the interpretation is, of course, a minister, and the minister has his own team of State secretaries and they are also indirectly inebriated. Three of them are here all afternoon, and I'm missing a fourth, this is Dr. Virant, who is also the creator of the Ministry of the Interior policy, and he's probably not here because his father-in-law is the first to be signed. It was interesting to see the reasons for the interpretation and at the same time the answers of the Minister, who was completely rejecting the reported errors. Even in this interpretation, the bill of motion is more than obvious. In my debate, in view of my participation in the debates so far, I will focus mainly on the adoption of the Police Act, which is inadequate procedures for resolving complaints against police officers, but I should be allowed to mention that I do not understand those who condemn the Minister because he respects the Constitutional Court's decision. Wrong world. If you're acting in accordance with the Constitution, you're intertwined, but if you break the Constitution, then there's a constitutional charge against you. As one of the reasons for the proposal for interpretation in point 5, the applicants shall state the inappropriate procedures for the resolution of complaints against police officers. Unwittingly, I feel that this part of the interpolation was written by someone who is concerned with knowledge and problems in the past not entirely foreign. Let me say this time, as I have said many times before, that in the work of police officers in the field we regularly face two different aspects of their work and their competences. One of us estimates that they are under-authorised, and many times the result is the reaction of police officers to avoid intervention because they are aware of their powers. And others who think cops have too much authority. And, of course, there are also those in the police ranks who exceed their powers and then have legitimate complaints from individuals and groups. And when these complainants found themselves in the appeal proceedings, there were few comments that the complaint was pointless, as it is being resolved within the police. Thus, in the old way, not in the new way, for which the fifth point of interpretation is written, the complaints were resolved within the police, which meant that the same body, which was supposed to have alleged to have wronged, had also decided on the merits of the complaint. While representatives of the public took part in the Senate's appeals, the decision was finally taken by the Head of the Senate of the police force. The new appeal procedure is also now under consideration by the Senate if the conciliation procedure has not been successfully completed before, but this Chamber is outside the police and is composed of an official of the Minister of the Interior and two representatives of the public. In the end, it is no longer up to the President of the Senate himself, but three members vote. And since they are two representatives of the public, they have a decisive vote in determining the merits of the complaints. As the Minister has already stated in his reply, these amendments to the appeal procedure, which is based on his proposal and is comparable to those in European countries, thus achieves the objective of better police supervision and impartial handling of complaints against police work. To conclude, let me also point out the findings of the Ombudsman, who welcomed only the planned amendments to the legislation in connection with the appeal procedure at that time. First, the internal procedure, i.e. the procedure where it took place, and later, if the procedure does not end with conciliation, in proceedings outside the police. It is understandable that those who request an untrustworthy minister do not talk about the projects that have been successfully carried out by the Ministry under the leadership of Minister Dr. Rad Bohinec during this mandate. Even if we consider this, because today the Minister is not to be commended, we would say to the opposition colleague, the answer of the Minister, who has fully argued against the charges, is a sufficient reason to put pressure on the key. Mr Bernick, with a smile, I'll tell you again, and I've already told you, I'm very proud of the history of my ancestors, including my parents. Proud of those who wore Partisan uniforms in World War II and gladly take over their backpack, and Dr. Bernick wears yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	I propose that we remain on the subject of today's debate. Now I will give my word to my fellow villain. Please. It's a microphone. Something wrong with the microphone? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot from our colleagues in these last hours. First we had to listen to gossip about a police boat, then we listened to colleagues on the side that are both psychologists, military strategy and at the same time in the same person judges and jury. Foreigners are, of course, dangerous. Foreigners have to be driven across our borders to live clean, unscathed, not with foreign genes in our blood vessels. Colleagues on the other side said that the Swiss understood our wishes for foreigners, and in particular those who had been erased, to disappear from the face of Slovenian land as soon as possible. It has been said that foreigners do not loathe at us. But it's not true. Gil-Robles came from Brussels alone, which was very critical of the situation in Slovenia. I must say that the foreigners who live with us are mainly ambassadors and other diplomats, and I must say, when I speak with them, the ambassadors are appalled at how easily they are with one category of people who are truly innocent, who have done nothing to anyone, the only thing wrong is that they are born with another nationality, a different language and perhaps with different values. Journalists from all over Europe spoke to me on several occasions, and I could not tell them the truth. When they asked how many people were involved, and when they found out that it was 18,000 people, they couldn't possibly understand how such a powerless group could actually be a powerless group, where 90% of these people were at the lowest social bottom and the more the poor, the more powerless they were, the more they would jump on them with their boots tied. I mean, it's actually a shame! And if you think that Europe doesn't know that, then you're making a terrible mistake here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. My friend Sok has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'll continue where my colleague Lukič ended up. In this country we have more than 100,000 unemployed, we have an army of workers who have virtually no rights today. We have, I don't know how many, 10,000 pensioners who receive pensions that are before charity, and after that key, we can count, respected colleagues, indefinitely. As many times as you, your respectable colleagues in the ruling coalition, have shown us some xenophobia, just because we have a different view of solving this problem, I tell you once again, and here we have all said this today, we are not against solving those irregularities that have been caused. We are opposed to those people who have represented the central Yugoslav structure in the Republic of Slovenia, who did not believe that the Republic of Slovenia would ever be independent, independent country, that it would be a member of the European Union, that today, according to what you have invented, in the technical law, that they would be granted some rights back to them, that they should play a role, that each case should be treated individually, and that they should be seen whether these people have actually been in Slovenia all this time and what they have been doing. That's all we're different about, that's all. And, dear fellows, this is why you have said a lot of insults at the expense of the opposition, and I must say that some of them are, I will not tell the media, but writers such as the various Miheljaks and their likes in this matter are very good and very helpful, but if someone is obvious to you, then yell and it is immediately wrong. And dear colleagues, if you're talking about some influential caste here in this House, look at some more of your kind, maybe there are some fathers among you whose brother-in-law have been appointed high-ranking; perhaps even without proper qualifications or without conditions - that I will not talk about names and backpacks. Some of these backpacks are very difficult, I would leave this matter alone and our fellow Member Bernik did not talk about what some of you want to put on and read to him. It's bad if the Minister speaks like that once, and in another time, it's completely different, completely contradictory. This is a very poor example for citizens as regards the function represented by the Interior Minister. So if citizens behave that way, then we can imagine what kind of situation they would come into; what you would say one day, and another day would be different. Of course, the Minister of the Interior cannot afford this, and we have actually suggested to him that, because of what he has done, he should give up. Of course, he didn't want that. Now there's an interpolation. However, I think that the real interpretation will be on Sunday, when our citizens and citizens are, despite the Prime Minister's call for them not to go to the referendum, and that many of them will help him to go to the referendum and vote in the referendum against this technical law. I think that's actually going to be the real interpolation when people show the Minister that they disagree with his decision. This "against" voted in a referendum on Sunday against the technical law will, in fact, also be against what it is doing now that it is illegal to issue decisions while, at the same time, if our citizens and citizens are largely against this technical law, they will show that they do not agree that these people, who were not in favour of Slovenia alone, would obtain, under this law and after such solutions as the Minister proposes, certain privileges, on the basis of which they would then actually file some compensation actions. We in this country have too many problems of our own, too many problems of our own to afford and pay compensation to people who did not want to have Slovenian citizenship. Once again, I say - to conclude - but of course, in New Slovenia, we are still in a position to make amends to those who have been wronged, and we do not deny this to those people, as it is proper and as it is fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Now he has the word of his colleague Tanko, his colleague Grošelj. Please, mate Tanko first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. By this consideration of this law we are somehow returning to the pioneer period of the country’s creation, that is to say during the period of independence, when, for example, after many centuries, Slovenia’s independent state arose. It must be said that this process of self-sustainment has been carried out in a very correct, very civilized manner, in a manner that has substantially deviated from all comparable in this part of Europe, and also from some of the procedures that have been linked to some of the previous events or in II. World War II. The country offered all non-Slovaks the opportunity to become citizens of this country, and 90% of those who were of other nationalities took this opportunity. There were approximately 10% of those who did not care about this condition and did not respond to this procedure. The country probably responded more than once, invited those then citizens, but did not respond, came back unopened envelopes; in short, it was obvious that these people had no or had no will to join the emerging country. There have probably been some mistakes in this process, something obvious, even in Koroška, in Ravna, we have heard this recently, and we agree that such errors that have been made must also be corrected. However, these errors cannot be corrected at all, in the mass and in the back, but this is possible from the case to the case, with each individual case. And I think it is possible to do so and it would be possible to do so without any constitutional decision. However, the fact is that the Minister for the Rescue of the Constitutional Decision, as well as the government as such, has engaged in an extremely awkward, extremely strange act. At first, nothing could be done without a legal basis, without an appropriate law. As it was calculated that this would be a resounding media topic, it even started on two laws, so that the matter would be strengthened very well. However, when things somehow turned around, the minister even decided to issue decisions without legal basis. In short, when proceedings began, the opposition protested against the government's conduct, the minister turned around, turned the board, turned around after the second wind, and began with activities that did not fall within the concept of the rule of law. I think that behind all of this is the fact that the government has made a decision, and the minister has also done so to bring this problem out in any way - to cover first on the legal path, if it has not, and also on the procedure as it is now going on. Therefore, there were also very different interpretations of the constitutional decision, very different interpretations of the Constitution and the laws. There are also questions raised by war-damaged people. The fact is that we Slovenians had two wars, in two we won: one in 1945, the other in 1990. And the fact is, for those in 1945 and in the period after 1945, we have also adopted three laws on this subject. There all these injustices are regulated, a written fund for the payment of war damage, written amounts and also ways to settle these matters. I think it would be possible and wise for all the things we are talking about to be settled by supplementing those laws, because it is actually all written. However, it was not likely to do so simply because the compensations defined here are in line. For someone who was forcibly deported, let's say to the Goli Island, when he was forcibly deprived of his property, which was, I don't know, imprisoned as a political prisoner, a daily compensation of 1,000 tolars is envisaged. 50 tolls per hour for forced deprivation of liberty and imprisonment. But for someone who refused to take advantage of this matter voluntarily, which was offered to him, here we have heard of this speaker when Mr Krivic said that these compensations were so enormously high that they would not be able to be paid in one budget. And I believe there won't be any. In the light of the requests made, this will not be possible to pay. Look, among us is a member of the National Assembly, who had this same choice as the others who were deleted, who took advantage of this opportunity, who was granted citizenship, who was nominated on the list and even elected to the Parliament of this National Assembly. And I think it's very unwise to tell us in the opposition that we're xenophobic. If they were like that, then on our people who have been granted citizenship in this way, they would never run. On your lists, which crowd you up--I don't know, 34 here, 12 with you probably-- there's no one who would go through the process and get citizenship, run on the list and be elected. Then who's xenophobic? And another thing that seems to me to be behind all this. I must say that I am very concerned, especially because I have the feeling that all these procedures, as far as they have been deleted, are being carried out under some pressure from the Belgrade archives. They can't be picked up, they're all blocked somewhere, even if anyone goes looking for these archives, they don't get them - despite all the arrangements. In short, behind all these rights are the Yugoslav People's Army officers, who were on the other side of this last war, and probably also part of this blackmail. Yet another problem compared to the deleted ones we are now talking about is the veterans of war, for which we are not able in any law that we are proposing to obtain and accept these minimum benefits of rights, or ratings, in no law. In the pension, even 3.6%, as Mr Petan has demonstrated last time in a decision, is deprived if only a declaration is made that he has the status of a war veteran. Two more words on salaries in the public sector are obvious customerism, otherwise such high wages, I don't think it could have come at all. It is the obvious payment of people working in the field of political marketing, past the media, past everything in the form of circles, societies, various associations and similar matters, and the fact is that the highest officials in the state administration are standing behind, and these people are doing this political marketing for their services and are strengthening this public opinion. One more thing about public procurement in a particular case of this boat. The fact is that all state administration has extremely serious problems in public procurement, that there is no ministry capable of carrying out a public procurement procedure so that the Court of Auditors does not find certain errors has been said before: the State Audit Commission has established this. However, the fact is that each time the contracting authority executes a tender, it is a compulsory component of this contract. The mandatory component document of the tender is a contract which must also be completed by the tenderer and signed by the tenderer. The fact is that you received back the contract signed by the tenderer on this boat, that this tenderer was successful and that you later decided to change the terms. You, Minister, or whoever did this to you there, changed the terms after the invitation to tender and therefore did not come - you have submitted a new contract which the selected tenderer has not signed, which is perfectly logical. Which makes perfect sense. The entire selection process in the public procurement process went through, the Commission submitted a selection on the most favourable terms and after it was all over, when it was only a contract to sign or put into life, decided to change the terms and blackmail for the new contract. I would also like to say that this country or this authority, this government, is obviously sick with some special solutions on extra solutions both in the fleet and in the airport park, and also in this case it was later on for an extra solution, it is a boat that works if it is not broken, only in good weather. In short, it is likely that, as we have in the area of airspace protection, we will also have to ask NATO to protect the maritime border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When it is said that a lie has short legs, it is transferred to the political space of the national assembly, in the form and manner of the interpelling agents on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs, unfortunately it does not. Interpellators do not accept any evidence, they do not hold the claim. They do not want to accept that many statements are completely fabricated or are not based on real facts. According to them, at the current political moment only a lie can be true and pure truth. Let me just mention some of the claims where the most evident is the half-truth of lies. Since the speaker has just concluded in question about the purchase of a police boat, let me focus on this problem. It is not true that Minister Rado Bohinc decided to purchase a P-66 police boat, as they claim, after many unsuccessful calls. It is true that, at the time of its administration of the Ministry of the Interior - we know that it was not until December 2000 that the Minister's role was completed - a procedure that began before his office took place. So there is no claim that the minister had made a decision or even decided to take another boat, as suggested by the Commission. It is not true that the Minister did not sign a contract for the purchase of a police boat under a 2000 tender at the price of SIT 139 million. If we look at the selection decision, number 05-123/308-51 of 7.3.2000, what can we find? At the invitation of 25.8.2000 came two valid offers, namely the offer of Elexa Unitrade, d.o.o. and Jadrana Sežana. In addition to the basic offer, the two tenderers submitted another option offer. The contracting authorities found that the optional offer by Elex Unitrade, d.o.o., met all the requirements of the procurement documents and therefore selected that tenderer after previous negotiations for the execution of this contract in the amount of SIT 139 million. If we look at who then signed the contract under number 52-81/67-52 of 8.3.2000, where the contract price is fixed, in the same amount, i.e. SIT 139 million, with an option period of 160 days after the opening of tenders. This contract is also signed on the right-hand side only with the signature of the Ministry of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, Minister. It is true that the provider Elex Unitrade, d.o.o., refused to sign the SIT 139 million contracts and was therefore not concluded. This can, of course, be determined on the basis of their letter No 205-3565/1 of 20.3.2002, where it is noted that the tenders are not accepted and are prepared to conclude a contract for the price of 157 million. It is true, therefore, that from this we can find that the tenderer claimed a higher price for the same boat 18 million SIT. On this request, due to budgetary constraints, which the Minister has already discussed today, it was not possible to agree on the basis of which the tenderer refused to sign the contract by registration of 20.3. Therefore, it is not true that the minister paid for the boat 178 million SIT and thereby damaged the country for 40 million SIT; it is true that he could buy a boat at the price of 157 million SIT. It is true that the Ministry of the Interior paid 145 million SIT for the boat after the new invitation to tender or, as is clear from the accompanying evidence, we can say that the amount was 145.083,000 SIT, which is what the Minister has already been talking about today. I think we can apologize on that basis. So, I ask, where is the basis for the accusation of damage to SIT 40 million; or where is the indication of the suspicion of an unjustified advantage of the private bidder for the purchase of the Elex boat, whose price was higher for SIT 12 million than that of the Ministry of Interior more than a year later paid SIT 145 million for the acquisition of the TE66? Nor is it true that there is a real problem of the exercise of maritime border control, which has been mentioned many times today, nor is it true that the boat is constantly in repair and unusable in the face of worse weather problems. It is true that, in addition to the regular tasks of protecting the state border at sea and other tasks, a police vessel has been used several times, inter alia, for the most demanding search and rescue at sea under the most difficult weather conditions. This has demonstrated its well-mannered and excellent manoeuvres, as well as the fact that it is a dedicated working vessel. I believe the police report! It is not true that Slovenia will not be able to protect the EU's external borders when it joins the EU after 1 May. It is true that at our entry into the EU external borders remain the same as they are now. Following our link in the SAN and in line with our negotiating points, we will be able to fully implement the Schengen acquis by the end of 2006. It is true, however, that we are rightly assessing, as in Brussels, that the protection of national borders is effective, that the security strategy and tactics of the Slovenian police for effective protection are already adapted to the standards of the Schengen acquis and to the recommendations and good practices of the EU in the implementation of external border control The Minister is also subject to interpretation of the Minister's work and responsibility due to inadequate and controversial proposals for a solution in the area of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, which contains many inaccurate claims, unreliable and with nothing to be proved, and consciously inaccurate statements by individuals or institutions. It's not true that Dr. Franc Križanič, chairman of the tendering commission for the selection of the manager of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants, stated that the Commission changed the criteria and criteria for selecting the fund manager during the selection procedure itself after receiving the tenders. It is true that in a letter dated 19.3.2004, Dr. France Križanič quoted him as saying: "The Commission for the Selection of the Manager of the Closed Mutual Staff Pension Fund in the Republic of Slovenia did not change the criteria and criteria for the selection of the manager during the procedure. These criteria and criteria were always the same and published in the rules for the making of tenders and also in the instructions for the making of tenders for the selection of the operator and which were also published in the Official Journal No. 111/112 in 2003." End of quote. It is not true that the public invitation of 14.1.2003 and the selection procedure described therein do not meet the conditions of the Public Procurement Act, as confirmed by the opinion of Prof.dr. Vesne Kranjc from the Faculty of Law in Maribor. I do not know because the SDS gentlemen are not present, I would like to take a joint look at whether we have the same expert opinion of the Institute of Economic Law of 3.7.2000, which was drawn up by Dr Vesna Kranjc, who expressly notes that the conclusion of contracts for the establishment of a pension plan after 303. and 304. of the Pension Insurance Act cannot be subject to rule 2(2) of Article 2 of the Public Finance Act, and not to the rules of Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Public Procurement Act. Finally, if we look at the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Public Procurement Office on 8.3.2004. - they also point out that in the case of funds paid for salaries, i.e. salaries, it is not a matter of spending public funds, but of salaries paid by employees in the public sector, and it is concluded that the contracting authority does not have to act in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act when selecting the manager of the closed mutual pension fund. The interviewers, whether you are also doubtful in the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, have also found this to be found in the audit reports for 2000, page 64, as well as for 2002 - I am also a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, giving the Ministry of the Interior a positive assessment without reservation, and I quote: "In our opinion, the Ministry of Internal Affairs' conduct on all important aspects was in accordance with the rules." Positive opinion. Let me finish. On the basis of my views, assessments and conclusions, I do not accept any indication of interpolation. By mentioning some of the cases in the authentic documents, I have proved that lies cannot become the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Comrade Groschel. He now has the floor of his colleague Kangler, and the Minister of the Interior wants to intervene briefly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Honourable Minister, Honourable President, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament. As a result of today's interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, the arrogant behaviour of some individuals who have a major political influence is so far. I am sure that this interpolation would not have occurred if we were capable of making political compromises in this house. Today, we have heard from some Members, particularly Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, that the instrument for an exceptional remedy in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the use of interpretation against the Minister as a pre-election propaganda of individuals. In my own way, I could agree with that - but respected colleagues and colleagues! Interpellations against the Minister shall not be filed immediately after the election of the Minister, but shall be filed when a conflict arises when the problem arises. This problem, as far as deleted persons are concerned, has not occurred in recent years. Once again, if we were able to hear in the National Assembly the need to solve this problem in a different way than we do today, I would point out that this problem would not be complicated if we were able to vote vetoly on such a law. Dear Minister, I'm sure, and I can honestly say, as I know you as a friend, that you are today a victim of individuals within your party, and not just you, and also your president. For me personally you are a victim, only because of this, I must be honest to admit that you are a victim because you have begun to issue decisions under the pressure of individual political Februarys in the Slovenian political space. I'm almost certain that what happened to Karsa, that you issued the decision, did not grow on your diaphragm. It is true, however, that the Prime Minister should also speak on this subject and explain his views and views. Do not blame the competent minister or the President of Parliament when he held a meeting of the national assembly at that given point. There was a lack of political compromise in this house. And I must be honest to say that I am very surprised that my colleague Potrč, as leader of the Group of Members in the United Nations, was not prepared for any other compromise that could solve this problem. That he listened more as his President and the competent Minister of the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Matevž Krivica, who has recently become the regular correspondent of Mladina, who was responsible for this issue as a competent constitutional judge. He didn't save it. And if you allow me to be the man who was at the highest level as a judge at the same time as the man who was in the role and who was also a representative of society deleted, and at the same time as the correspondent of Mladina - I hope that this is the real Matevža Krivica - because we can read: "The conflict of two bluffs." There is a small bluff on this side - the Minister of the Interior, and on this side is a big bluff - Janez Janša. It is a great regret that a professional person who considers himself an expert in constitutional law in this way, as a constitutional expert, as an agent, last but not least as a journalist, forms a policy of individuals or minorities in the Slovenian political space. He wrote: "The government side or the LDS has become so entangled by its unorthodox maneuvering around this hot mess [[in this question, the only principal client of the ZLSD is burdened by "only" Bohinc and Pahor with their "braurs"]] That she was waiting for the big bluff Janša to plant her cowardly egg. Since they did not have the courage and intelligence to put the Bohinian down themselves, Janša put them in a position to defend the one who even cooked the porridge himself and Janša and others in the play of the rights erased in the last two years most effectively." I'm Minister Bohinc. And now I should ask some of the others - we have two bluffs on how to put up an interpellation against each other and we are discussing this today. Grief is great for Mr Krivica, that he has also come down to this controversy, that he is also a writer of Mladina; perhaps - I stress, probably - for those 30,000 tolls for this article or all the other articles that were present in the magazine Mladina, which I read with great joy, because I learn more from it than on some commissions where I am also single, and sometimes even credible. However, once again, I would like to stress, for me, Sir Bohinc, the issue is, on the basis of what you have decided to issue decisions - on the basis of political pressure, on the basis of pressure on the head of the United List's Group, Mr Potræ, on the basis of the pressure of the Prime Minister or others in that country. I am sure - or you will have to convince me, Comrade Bohinc, that you were not guilty or affected so much that you started so late in December, even though you yourself insisted that a systemic and technical law should be adopted so that you can start issuing decisions. If the brother of magnetograms, honourable Members and Members of Parliament were to go about presenting the government on this law in the first, second and third readings, we could find ourselves today in a contradictory relationship between once claiming that the law is needed and, secondly, claiming that the constitutional decision is sufficient. Therefore, I can honestly say that we are dealing with a deleted problem which, in my opinion, is not a problem at all and could be solved in a completely different way than we are solving today. A great deal of responsibility, Comrade Potsch, and you carry it. I have told you why, and to be honest: too hard and firm, as you claim for yourself that it is a handful of people, you have given yourself the impression that we have not found a political compromise among most parliamentary parties. And these consequences and such consequences have already occurred when you wanted to show in this national assembly "muscles", even in the case of the law on artificial fertilization, we knew in advance that the referendum would be positive and that people would decide, as most think. It is more important for me personally that this ministry and you too, Mr Potrč, deal more with regionalism and the funding system of municipalities, municipalities, where we have actually had a lot of problems lately. The mayor of the city from which I come belongs to your client, too, has major problems - Mr Sovič, regarding the financing of municipalities. I would also expect so much attention and so much concern from you, Comrade Potrč, to make efforts in this National Assembly to start reducing uneven regional development in this country in order to start implementing more coherent regional development. And if we were able to solve this, we would also be able to solve the deleted in this way, without putting on or putting on the responsibility and "putting" of your own minister in this way, because you want to achieve what you wanted to achieve. But you've achieved that the opposition parties against the minister have filed an interpretation. And that was done by force. I don't want to be a minister here, I just respect him as a minister, and I believe that's the way it is. And I think more effort and energy should also be invested on your part and on your side of your party in the problem of local self-government. The deleted problem will be solved and must be resolved, but not in the way you are solving it - with force, with arguments that are not at all arguments. Some were told by the opposition about Mirag's business with stickers and passports. It is true that the minister inherited this, but it is true that the one who is most responsible for this was in this Chamber today, and could answer that first. That a person pays a sticker for 1,500 SIT and the country receives only VAT, is said to be a tax on a service of 1,500 SIT, but everything else gets to a greater extent the one who prints the sticker - we know how much the press weighs. It is true, however, that the Ministry of the Interior could review the procedure concerning the surrender of these works. A colleague who came from the same town as me also told the Minister that the magazine Slovenian Administration is also available. For me personally, if it is written about the Minister and the Secretary of State and in fact those who deal with the State and Public Administration, it is not disputed. However, it is true that I cannot agree with my colleague when she said that she had made her own efforts in this magazine to make sure that we Slovenians are impatient when we touch on such a question. Believe me, the Slovenians are not impatient, this - I know that the colleague of Potrata sighs, I hope that even then she would be so hard to sigh when her colleague from a party running the city of Maribor struggles and deals with public finances of all the municipalities and the problem is much smaller if they were all able to help him with some of the budgetary resources. And the intolerance that we are talking about today - always having those who are as different as you, for the impatient, for me is personal humiliation and, in fact, in this political space not at the right time or at the wrong time does not belong to the thinking of my fellow Members, that we who think differently about the deleted and see a different solution are therefore impatient. Let me get this straight. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	If I may just conclude. It is true that we have been in a very strange situation lately, very strange times, elections are ahead of us, and I can honestly tell you, colleague Potrč, that I do not know who the president of the country is anymore: either Milan Kučan or Drnovšek. Last time I was at a handball game in Celje, I was four times at a game, four times they said we welcome the president of the state of Milan Kučan. That's when I started to wonder who the president of this country was, who should I finish? [[...]] And who is that man who is in this situation that we have in this area, as far as the deleted ones are concerned, and has thrown the minister into this mess as we have today? And I'm not saying it's the former president of the state. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Comrade Kangler, you don't have any more time. The minute's already over.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Can I just do that? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	You can't. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	But I'll explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Please. You can't. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'm not going to call as many times as I've been called, but quite frankly, if Mr Kangler could help solve any of your traumas, believe me, I'd love to, but I don't know them and I can't. If your mention of my name by mistake will give you five votes in Maribor more, I'll give them to you as you "go ahead" because that's why you're doing this. But I tell you, I'm sure I'd get a lot more of them in Maribor than you do, but that's another story. Now for the problem deleted. My accident, unlike you, is that I, apart from Youth, am also reading official materials and that I am also reading the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that I know what the Constitutional Court has decided on this. And that I was the one who had warned about this a long time ago, already in February 2002, what would happen if we did not take this seriously. And ever since then, I've had my own opinion, which I say and defend. Without any pressure, the minister did not have to do this for me, but it is true that the new decision of the Constitutional Court, even if you read it, gave an answer to what needs to be done. And the situation, she said, should finally start on the basis of the 8th point, and I find it uncomfortable to say this, you know, but the difference between democracy and another system is that constitutionality in democracy is decided by the Constitutional Court and in another regulation is decided by policy, and that everyone can choose when to respect the decision when to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	Order! I'm a colleague of yours. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Kangler, I have lost hope that you will ever understand what I am saying. To understand what is written, however, I would be glad to know that there would then be hope that we might have a similar view of certain things. But I'm going to have to ask the president of the National Assembly to give me another seat because I feel like my presence always makes you feel bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Well, let's please be nice to each other. We're also colleagues. We have different views. Please, we have to respect each other. The Minister of the Interior wanted to cut into the debate with some clarifications. Minister, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	I owe you a lot of answers. I will not, I have no ambition to answer all these questions in full now, but some questions nevertheless. Some way of accusing me of issuing decisions without a legal basis continued. Or as some of you have expressed yourself: no legal basis. That's not gonna hold. I would like to reiterate that this is simply not true. The legal basis is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is considered to be a legal provision under Article 154, third paragraph of the Slovenian Constitution and according to the part of the Slovenian legal theory, which is found in the commentary to this constitution. I don't want to leave in the air the feeling or the unexplained or the accusation that maybe someone else understands that the minister is doing anything illegal. There is nothing illegal about issuing decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court directly. Of course, the interpretations of whether or not the erasure has actually been or has not been entirely different, including in this national assembly, are the reason why we interpret the Minister’s work differently and that some are also guilty of being held responsible. I would like to give my view to my colleague Petan because he specifically encouraged me with the question of how I understand the violation of human rights in relation to deleted persons. With my colleague Petan, I certainly agree that the residence under our Constitution is not a human right, but two very important legal principles have been found by the Constitutional Court to be an infringement of their right to human rights. This is the principle of equality before the law and the rule of law. An intervention in this and another principle constitutes a grave disregard for human rights. And that's what happened to the blanks. Of course, not after the interpretation as you explain it, but after the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court declared the 1991 Aliens Act incompatible with the Constitution in its 81st article, when it provided that those who did not rely on Slovenian citizenship would lose their status on 26 February and should, on this basis, re-establish it under the new law, in accordance with the new legal order. This is the essence of the deleted, and this is what the Constitutional Court found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. I am grateful to my colleague Grošlj for taking the time and looking at the documents and bringing the real truth to the day about the police boat. I hope this is an opportunity for one last debate on this story, which is imposed, which is populistally very interesting, but based on the fact that the protagonists of these stories obviously did not have the right documents before you. The documents are here now, the ones you're still interested in, please take a look at them. It is perfectly clear and evident that the contract was signed in a different text from that annexed to the tender documents, and of course because, in order to protect taxpayers, the Minister included in it a clause on temporary budgetary financing. It is also legitimate in the business world - you will probably agree to negotiate the content of the contract. What is included in the invitation to tender is merely a sample of the contract; from here on, the contracting parties are looking for a consensus of the contractual will, as the bond law calls for, and once this consensus is reached, the contract is concluded. This consensus did not come about simply because the contractor was not prepared to discuss this price. He announced this shortly in January and because he was not ready to talk and when this price was no longer guaranteed from his supplier, he simply withdrew from the contract and was no longer willing to sign the contract. Everything else is an excuse. And from all of this - I'm really glad - the argument about damage to state property suddenly disappeared. I don't think she's gonna show up anymore because there's simply no more documents for this. On other issues, however, a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Please, Comrade Auschwitz, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you. Nice greetings to the Minister, the President, the colleagues and colleagues! This interpolation is in a sense similar to yesterday's. The applicants of this interpolation do not have a very serious intention to succeed with it, which is evident both from the interest in today's debate by the interpolation investors and from the purpose for which it was submitted. The discussions so far have shown that it is indeed true and that those who claim that the interpretation has only been put in place and only because it preserves the fear of how we will resolve the problem of the deleted in Slovenia. Interpellation has eight points, the first begins with deleted, ends at the 8th point again with deleted, all the rest are actually some ink that was sufficient text and that some suspicions were recorded, certain assumptions that something was wrong and similar. I think that we, who do not support this way of solving problems in Slovenia, should also take advantage of this time and point out that this is the topic that we really need to discuss today and say how pointless the referendum will be at the end of this week. How are we gonna decide something that doesn't mean anything? How will we know or how are those who demand a referendum misleading that billions and billions of dollars of compensation be resolved if the problem is resolved? At the same time, they say that in fact some illiterate cleaners and perhaps others who did not know and would have been justified and others did not. Unfortunately, it has never been explained and it would be good for both applicants, first and secondly, who, at the time of these problems, took the lead in both the Security and Information Service and the Ministry of Defence, in order to tell how the 800 officers who were among those who needed to be banned in some way from entering Slovenia were punished and accused of aggression. Maybe they're right, but we should prove it in court. And because of these 800 officers, 18,000 people were wiped out, in the majority of those who did not really know, they were convinced that the Slovenians had Slovenian citizenship because they had been married since the early days of their youth in Slovenia, because they were married here because they had created families and because they had also created a new, second generation of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. People like that have been wiped out! And there is no claim and no assurance that there will be any payment of compensation at all, but of course we cannot forbid anyone to sue for compensation. That's another moment. And, of course, those who think that we can write in laws something like that, that it is forbidden to sue the state for something that the state has caused them, I think they are wrong and that this is not the right approach. In fact, the proponents deceive the Slovenian public with all the information that relates to the fact that the way of solving this problem is not correct. The ministers are accused of deceiving us. And I could say that, as a layman of law, I believe that I have been and that most of the Members and Members have been misled. Because, on the one hand, we had the legal opinions of the unique legal experts of Slovenia, including the signing of the President of the former Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which, at the time of the adoption of the legislation, was the signature of the former Constitutional Judge, in short, an extremely credible legal name in Slovenia. On the other hand, we also have a decision by the Constitutional Court and a clear reference to how to do so. I believe that the applicants have crossed the line of common sense by forcing a referendum - and expecting at least one more - to intervene against the Minister and thus expecting the State Assembly to vote today in untrust with the Minister and his discharge to confirm their unjustifiable conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much, colleague Auschwitz. I will now take into account the fact that some parliamentary groups have run out of time to discuss. My friend Sušnik has that word. He's been followed by a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much. A well-respected council, a respected minister. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow me to sign myself under a proposal for a decision to discharge the functions of the Minister of the Interior, Minister of the Interior, regardless of his absence at the moment. I will further substantiate my signature and request for your release. For me, your procedures and your way and the full implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia are particularly controversial. Once again, I stress and note that, Mr Minister, you are responsible for the situation and consequences that the Slovenians will feel in the future. We will feel the consequences of the way in which we implement and solve the problem of so-called deleted. You are guilty of confusion because you have failed to address and resolve problems under the Constitution, especially that you do not care about the opinion and attitude of this issue, which is indisputable and inherent to the majority of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. I am confident that the referendum outcome of Sunday's referendum will put things in place and that the majority rejection of the technical law on the subject of the deleted will sober you up and that you will change the underestimated and biased attitude towards the Slovenes and Slovenians. You have caused confusion by the introduction of two laws, you have irresponsibly changed your position to the so-called deleted ones, and the excess arrogance and clear communication have been transmitted by direct decision-making. Inequity before the law, possible legal complications and high material damage, which threatens and will be paid in the burden of us and future taxpayers, are sufficient reasons for interpolation. In particular, the damage to state property in purchasing a police boat with all the consequences for the protection of Slovenian waters and for ensuring general safety at sea is disputed for me. It is undeniable that you have harmed taxpayers for at least 40 million dollars by handling the purchase of a police boat. The damage to your conduct is great, but everyone involved is harmed in one way or another and has serious problems. Your irresponsible conduct in purchasing and equipping the maritime police with the most necessary tools, which is a condition for the smooth performance of police duties, raises a serious question as to the ability to exercise effective control over our sea. The inadequacy and constant repairs of both boats indicate the controversy of such purchases and such equipment. I am convinced that you are objectively responsible for the absence of proper control over our sea. Here I am also referring to the possible necessary rescue of the bathers, recreationals and all other users of this goods, which, in view of the non-useability of police vessels, has been reduced, if not completely disabled, flawed and questionable. I would also like to mention the inappropriate appeal procedure on and against police procedures. Undoubtedly, you have deceived the public, Mr Minister, when you promised and stressed the importance of transferring such complaints from the police to the ministry, the so-called civil sphere. You promised that the complaint would not be resolved by the police, that there would be no police officers in the Senate, that two of the three members of the Senate would be members of the civil society. Regrettably, you have denied everything with the rule of the saved complaints, which represents and in the true sense of the word is a kind of absurd and farce. You have invented a rapporteur who comes from the police force as a rule, who will carry out all the preparatory procedures in the process of resolving the individual complaint, including discussions with the police, witnesses and others involved, verify the evidence, in short, prepare everything for the hearing of the Board of Appeal at the Ministry. It is thus indisputably clear that the Senate will not deal with the complaint at all, the role of the so-formed Senate has been reduced to and only to an assessment of the merits or inequitableness of the complaint. Taking into account the well-known statement that crows do not exclude eyes, it is not necessary to guess how the complaints will be resolved. Only you, Mr. Secretary-General, are guilty and responsible because you have returned to the police, past the law on police handling complaints about the work of the police. I cannot help but mention the unnecessary complications with the stickers we have received from the users of motor vehicle registration services. It was undeniably a highly uncontested administrative measure, and only the pressure of parliamentarians should we thank that this area has changed. Personally, however, I am disappointed that this interpretation does not contain your inaction, inaction or inaction in the creation and formulation of the policy of local self-government, which, during your term of office, has passed under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. Today, we have had the opportunity to hear what the resulting situation in the field of local self - government is like in the financing of municipalities, what the role of municipalities in the legislative process should be. The Ministry of the Interior, the Minister in charge of the Ministry under which the Local Self-Government Office operates, has in the past four years in this area practically failed to make a mention of a valuable step towards improving the situation in the field of local self-government. Moreover, I can argue that his procedures have further centralised powers to further strengthen centralism in this area. The Minister is also undisputedly guilty of failing to carry out the necessary regionalisation and landscape design process. Its insistence on a centralist approach to the formation of landscapes, conditional on the so-called constitutional changes that would enable it, has ultimately led to the fact that the provinces or other stages of the reform of local self-government have not been implemented and, as a result, the differences between rural and urban centres are deepening and are becoming one of the most serious problems when we join the European Union. All of this happened because the minister wanted to or because of his attitude toward local government. The minister showed his true face and attitude to the problem of local self-government, not least with the proposal for a law on local self-government. In view of the fact that I am running out of time, I would just like to say that this law on local self-government reflects the ministers' pathetic attitude towards local self-government, or their tendency, its trauma, represented by the municipalities represented by the autonomy of local self-government. This marriage proposal shows his clear purpose and his desire for congregations to be abolished as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Joseph Školč has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Interpellation or argument in interpretation against Minister Bohinc is difficult to support. When I say that, of course, I do not finish the sentence and I must say that it is even harder to defend Minister Bohinc. What I think the situation we're in would solve - and that's probably my lonely opinion - is that Minister Bohinc would step down. If he had given up, he would have taken over part of what had accumulated primarily around the issue of the removal of the deleted. It must be made clear that Minister Bohinc was not the one who said he caused this deletion and that he was therefore responsible. But it is true that there are quite a few elements in this story that show that he was not partial to his position. There are at least four reasons for him to question himself first, I will say his conscience and his actions and try to resolve this conflict. The first reason is that he did nothing to clear up the background of this shameful erasure. Even more, I think there are many things left hidden about this deletion because there is no will with the Minister, and even less I believe in the Ministry to reconstruct this story. The second reason why he could have resigned is that he did not start making decisions in time and could have done so, and today it appears that he could. The third reason is that he offered, as he himself says, not according to his will, to this national assembly a technical law. You will remember the debates of that time, including mine, that this marriage is unnecessary and that it will only lead to a dead end. Today it is also considered unnecessary for the Minister himself and for the government coalition. The fourth reason is that the law, which is said to try to resolve the remaining part of the deleted problems at systemic level, is unfortunately unconstitutional in individual provisions. We can go to other, I'll say, elements of this, I agree, a problematic accusation would not be dropped. But the situation that Slovenia has come to, let's say, the coalitions and governments, and ultimately the ministry in connection with this problem, is really terrible. It has weakened both Slovenia's reputation and the reputation of politics, so that it is able to resolve it according to my opinion despite all the simple problems. Look, covering up the background is an important element of this story. A lot of people say we need to keep looking. But what does that mean? We don't know why we got into this situation. In those ancient years of independence, which was discussed today, this problem of the potential problem of people who did not choose citizenship was presented to the congregation at that time. Members of the then United Letter and Liberal Democracy, in all three congregations of the then Assembly, have submitted amendments and the majority of Demos and the Government have warned that the status of those people who would become foreigners should be regulated in the same manner as the law stipulated for those who were foreigners in the SFRY and who were staying in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this was not accepted in the end, but this problem was presented. Today, this is known as the Metka Mencin amendment, but I would like to say that this amendment has been tabled in various forms in all three congregations and in some modified forms even twice. From this point of view, I'm going to say, those people who are attacking the government today, at this point in history, I'm going to say, probably part of the responsibility that came to this. Of course, the Minister does not want to say what was going on, and the documentation of this is not available. Thus, we can read once in one, on the other in another newspaper about such and different letters and slowly draw up the picture that, in fact, it was more than a mistake or omission, which may have seemed a year ago, it was a planned action as precise as it was carried out, not only in the sense that these people were not informed, but as we have now read that their employers or landlords were informed when we were talking about single homes and other companies, but that it was also in the later opinions that the government had given, but rather rather rather not always the same experts, that this decision defended itself unconditionally to the point that it had failed in the constitutional court. I accuse the Minister because we do not know about some, I will say important things from our immediate past, and we are grappling with each other over matters that we cannot all be equally responsible for. The other thing I'm telling him is that he listened to everyone who came through who advised him not to issue decisions directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. In some ways, it was indicated that he might eventually have to do so and did so later. He supported the opinions of officials and advisors, and I don't know who else he didn't have to do that. True, it was a resounding name, but it is true that it was probably for people who in one part were already involved in it in one way or another. And it is true that he also had other opinions. He chose wrong. Thus we have come to a technical law that no one really wants for their own and goes beyond that. But this test will be another one. To whom should this responsibility be attributed? That's what I'm talking about. It's hard to attribute to those who gave this marriage to a referendum. It can be attributed to those who have proposed this law. That's why you should step down. From this point of view, no matter how much, Mr Visjak, this lock probably means to me other than to anyone else. In spite of what I am saying, and in what the Slovenian Coalition is saying, we may differ in that you are significantly closer to each other in the Slovenian Coalition with Minister Bohince than I am with you, or with him. You're both, I'll say, stalling as much as possible by a decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry I can't tell you everything because I only took 10 minutes. That's enough. The system law also has built-in solutions that are obviously unconstitutional. I don't think this is about testing commitments, coalitions, coalitions and so on, that this is also about responsibility and honor, and I'm pleading for resignations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Now she has the word of a colleague of Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleague, I will not vote in favour of interpolation. [[Back-up advertising.]] "Plese," if I may-- well, for the resignation, okay, I apologize, Mr. Roman Jakič. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly appear to be written only for Members of the United Nations to take it into account. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I can only say that it seems that some MPs of the National Assembly are reading Youth, newspapers and so on, but our minister probably had a chance to read quite a lot of books if he wrote twelve of them himself. Let me just list, say, the New Labour Law, Labour and Service Law, Economic Law, the Law of Economic Companies and, last but not least, the Slovenian Corporation between American and European experience, in short, twelve books and almost 200 scientific contributions. I think that, unlike the others, I may have been slightly more vulnerable to injustice, and I have also reacted so strongly when I heard that an interpretation was written for the Minister of Home Affairs, who in contrast to other ministers in this mandate, if we look at this mandate or the others, has actually done the most. If I start to list laws that have been adopted only, say, in the areas of public administration reform - the Law on State Administration, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Inspection, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Registration of Elections, the Law on the Transfer of Certain Governmental Services to the Ministry, the Law on Elections of Members of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members to the National Assembly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, the Administrative and Home Affairs Act on Public Collections, the Law on Explosive Substances, the Law on Registration of Residence, the Law on Home Register, the Law on Home Books, the Law on Society and so forth, it could be listed on the 52rd and 53rd pages of the reply. And I'm glad that historians, archivers will be able to put things into different maps. And based on the response given by Minister Bohinc, I can only say that the result will be rich, and they will be able to say that this was interpolation and an answer to interpolation is very good. To Mr Kangler, Members of the Slovenian People's Party and those who have submitted the interpretation, which you so like to point out with your finger to the United List of Social Democrats, I would just like to say that you are the only one from the Slovenian People's Party always in power, and that you certainly, by the method of projection, have the desire to always point to someone else with your finger, that he is guilty and guilty of what you are alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	I propose that we remain on the subject of today's debate, and the time for it is slowly running out, including the list of applicants. Before I give my word to my colleague Visiak, let us avoid misunderstandings that were not there yesterday, I say, when the last debater is finished, let us go to the vote. My colleague Visjak now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'll be brief because I have to keep going for a while. I am sure that when the Slovenians became independent, we were very patient with the inhabitants and citizens of other nationalities and, of course, those who had lived in other republics before, so we also allowed them a fairly quick and easy way to get to both residence and, of course, citizenship, of course, in certain deadlines and under certain conditions. I am sure that those who wanted to do so did so, and those who did not ask for the regulation of their status as a place of residence and citizenship do not want to live in our country or at that given time did not want to. That's my basic thought. Since we interpret this point differently, I am also sure that permanent residence in Slovenia as well as Slovenian citizenship is not a human right, this is a value, this is a privilege for Slovenians, so this is not all on average to give and of course to recognise. That is why I myself think that the notion of erased is artificially created and, of course, the law, which is unfortunate, both technical and systemic, is, of course, an attempt to make from this point of view something that people at first stage did not want to do. I am also convinced that the act of a minister issuing a decision without a legal basis on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court is contrary to the Constitution, to our legal order, and therefore I believe that the interpretation is of course in place. I also point out that anyone who wanted to settle the status has arranged it. It is true, however, that injustices have also occurred and it is right to correct injustices, so the solution in the law of constitutional nature, which will deal with cases individually, and in those who have suffered injustices, is also to correct them. There are also some, but not most, but most are sorry those who did not want citizenship at the time and, of course, a permanent residence, and that now that the Calvary in the Balkans has ended, they are asking for it back. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much, colleague Visjak. Only buddy Bevk has a word now. Let's just see who's behind him, Comrade Marsich, colleague Pukšič, colleague of the Frussels. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As I did not support yesterday's interpretation of the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, I will also vote against today's inventions, which were written by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rada Bohinca. On the 59th page of the long and comprehensive and reasoned reply, Dr Rado Bohinc effectively rejected the statements of the interpolators. The Ministry of the Interior, which Dr Rado Bohinc has successfully led since November 2000, is one of the most difficult and complex government departments. From 1990 onwards, Minister Bohinc has had the longest internship of all internal ministers of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not an indelible piece of data. Witnessing professionally and politically capable of handling his business. This is why the purpose of the interpellers is very clear, as well as politically naive: a few months before the European and national elections, to destabilise the work of the government and to prevent the normal work of the national assembly, which should work swiftly on the so-called European legislation. The entire interpolation building, which stands on very torn legs, is built on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the deleted. The Coalition of Slovenia, together with the Slovenian People's Party, rode a conjunctural theme created by a great deal of deception and falsehoods offered at every step. That is why it means a great deal to convey today’s statement by Dr. Micah Brejc that the minister, by his public conduct, encouraged intolerance and hatred. I therefore see today's interpolation in close association with the Sunday referendum, where the majority will decide on the minority, with a referendum at which the majority will decide on the human rights of minorities. Today, too, you are abusing the valuable time of the National Assembly for the pre-election tribunal, so you are abusing the home of Slovenian democracy for a cheap and cheap campaign. Even some clerics took part in this campaign. I hope that without instructions from the Slovenian Catholic Church, I was told in my constituency that in the sermon, the priest urged his parishioners to attend the referendum and prevent the deleted from receiving unjustifiable compensation of 30 million tolars. Again, the invention that you have implanted in the Slovenian public, just as you have consistently repeated in the National Assembly and the media, is not the case in cases where it is deleted for the distribution of Slovenian citizenship and not for the regulation of the illegal deletion from the register of permanent residence. But for this referendum and a cheap campaign, taxpayers will have to deduct 600 million dollars, perhaps even one billion, according to some estimates. As much money as you'll spend on a single day, for a single referendum, without any legal effect is scattering money without chance, it's a sin, so I lay on your heart to first turn on Sunday's first confessional, and I'd rather go for a spring walk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Comrade Marshich, then Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! The first point of interpretation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior speaks of the inadequate enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia, several times said. Today, in support of this incorrect implementation of the 8th point, several arguments were cited, among other things, several of the opposition's colleagues mentioned that it was people who would acquire citizenship, mainly former elders or JLA officers, and that this was of course unfair. Not so many poor people, but as Dr. Brajcposka himself today, he also told on television and I am glad that this is also written in a newspaper, that it is his belief that it is only about whether Slovenia should correct the injustices of those who have survived truly tragic stories after independence, or of former JLA officers. Not former JLA officers, he says. We're not in favour of getting those 450 officers, maybe more of them working against us, getting something back that they're not good at. I agree. I have already said here that the period when the Demos government had all the law enforcement authorities to find out the guilt and that those who committed the crime were also punished. Even by expelling them, even by not really granting them citizenship. And she didn't do it, even the opposite. I read: "For more than a dozen years after the aggression, we should decide at the referendum whether those 450 officers and, of course, the other members of the 18,000 heads of the crowd should be recognised as permanent residents and, at the same time, the initiator of the referendum personally signed the decisions by which he also employed officers active in field operations against Slovenia in the Slovenian Army. Half a year after the aggression", Janša ko minister, "signs an order to place an officer active in field operations against Slovenia in a high position in the incoming General Staff". So they don't think the document that's in Youth is made up. I have it here with my name and surname, signed by Janez Janša. So these 450 officers, they say, are the initiators of the referendum. Data isn't exactly accurate, they say in Youth. Some of the officers were really wiped out, and some of them were hired by the Department of Defense. And I showed the contract here. Not just that. I also have a nice letter where the head of VOM, the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, asks or even appeals, appeals to the administrative authority for the defence and protection of Vrhnnik to hire the wife of the JLA officer, who was also active in military activities in the Republic of Slovenia. He says that the employment of workers is of particular importance for security. With respect to anonymity, I will not say the name and surname of the person concerned, but it is the administrative authority, after the intervention of VOM, who is to intervene with the municipal company and hire this lady. It would probably be necessary, gentlemen, to explain to the members of the Slovenian Officers' Association and members of the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia why this has happened. Why the permanent composition of the territorial defence, to those who fought from the very beginning, carried out all the preparation and so forth, why you did not put yourself in the right places, but were skipped by those who came, did not come who had been hired, nor did you respect that invitation to join the Slovenian army or then into territorial defence. Perhaps we should explain and explain why they were needed. I believe whoever hired them knows. And allow me one more thing. The SDS calls for participation in the April 4th referendum and a vote against it, saying: "This will by no means be a referendum on human rights, since the status of permanent residence is no fundamental human right." That's what they say. Maybe so. However, the constitutional right is that the State must not unlawfully deprive you of the status it has granted you. That's a fact, gentlemen. And you did that in 1992, you illegally forfeited the rights that were granted by constitutional laws to everyone, the rights that people were convinced they had, they lost them, and now we, not guilty, not due, I must say that I do not feel guilty, and not due, we must correct these injustices in return. And even part of the guilt to take over. Gentlemen, no thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Please proceed with the debate. My friend Pukšič now has the floor. My friend Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Known Slovenian lawyer, former Constitutional Judge and also President of the Constitutional Court Dr. Tone Jerovšek wrote in the magazine Ali no. 2, that is, February: "The decision of the Constitutional Court came exactly to political demagogos who burn for human rights and some others, if possible, beat them." Very good. "The consequences will be far-reaching, and the reputation of the Constitutional Court will be catastrophic today. Because she's legally insufferable, no one believes her except the blind and the blind." If this is written by one of Slovenia's distinguished legal experts, then there will be something to hold on to in the magazine, where he then professionally explains the following, I will take some of these explanations. On the question of whether it was legally permissible or even possible to do so, on the basis of the consequences of disregarding our law or for abandoning the legal procedural options they had, Dr. Tone Jerovšek answers: "No, this was not possible.They were thus deleted by a decision of the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court incorrectly established the non-constitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is included in Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This constitutional charter must also be for constitutional judges as catechism, as one of the burdens, i.e. a document which must also be kept by constitutional judges," says he, "especially because it is an act of the origin of our country." This means that this act created the Republic of Slovenia. "That is why article 81 of the Aliens Act for the Constitutional Court is untouchable," and these constitutional judges should know that. And secondly, he says, "If the Constitutional Court had deleted it was necessary to make more unconstitutional and illegal manoeuvres." Who? Constitutional Court. "First, to determine the unconstitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is part of the constitutional law and is not in the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, to silence the fact that, under the law on foreigners and under Article 13 of the Constitutional Law, they were obliged to submit applications until the expiry of the terms of Article 81 and to arrange for one of the statuses offered. Thirdly, to silence the constitutional option provided for in Article 157 of the Constitution, which provides "if no other judicial protection is provided, the competent court shall also rule in administrative disputes on the legality of individual acts and acts which interfere with the constitutional rights of individuals." It is clear from this that the Constitutional Court has now made this group a so-called special pillar, so-called 'bypass', so that the hay unlawfully privileged way would avoid the longer legal path they had and still have today if their roles were not dealt with. The United List and Liberal Democracy are already used to bypass. In this way they damaged the social property, and in this way it was stolen, and in this way there are 100,000 Slovenes without work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	I'm asking for peace in the hall. My colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members, Members, Mr Minister. I will not support the interpretation because the Minister does not violate the laws or the constitution by issuing decisions. Both parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija, adopted, for the most part, their own own legislation in 1991. It's been a rough time. But it doesn't excuse you for not being able to admit today that you were wrong at the time, that a law had been passed on to foreigners who had caused injustice. You declare your certainty to be absolute certainty. You have declared yourself unmistakable, even though you have been denied by the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, erased by your own sad fates on Slovenian soil, the international public, the international guardian. Since you are so highly esteemed, you want us to vote against the minister in a modern state of law, which we hope Slovenia is today, working on basic laws and constitutions. You are using daily unspecified referendum legislation, and you are preventing those who want to correct injustices from adopting appropriate legislation. Too many arguments speak against your only absolute truth that you are articulating today. Some statements that are your only and without honorable truth, I will try to deny them with my own truths. I have a very modest right to do this. Mr. Peterle said any one of them could demand a permanent residence at any time. Mr. Peterle, it's not true. The 1991 law did not regulate the situation of people who already had a permanent residence in Slovenia, lived here, worked and paid taxes. Article 13 made it possible to obtain the status of a foreigner with permanent residence only to those who had at least three years’ authorisation as aliens for temporary stay. There were no such ones in Slovenia at the time. May Mr Janša, Mr Peterle, who is now resting show you the paper with which he is waving. In 1992, 8,000 temporary residence permits were issued for foreigners for one year and under very strict conditions that they had to meet. For example, if he lost his job in the second year, he would no longer meet the conditions and goodbyes of the following year. In order to grant a permanent residence permit after the adopted law in 1991, Mr Peterle, it was not possible for foreigners to stay at all, and I ask you to read the law you proposed at the time as Prime Minister and not to deceive people. You've asked questions about your independence. Both political parties firmly argue that the Constitutional Court, by virtue of its provision, repealed Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument and thereby for the purposes of its adoption. True, independence was a positive ideal, the goal of which was the independence, democracy and development of Slovenia. It was not a negative project, the result of which was the deprivation of rights to nationals of other republics. Mr Peterle, because you claim that independence stands or falls by restoring the rights that have been removed, I say that you are deeply denying the civilisational potential of independence. Article 13 of the Constitutional Law equates the citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ from 25 February 1992 onwards with other foreigners. Just as they did not have to apply for permanent residence, they did not need to be asked to do so. Such an explanation is the only human and civilisational one and is also the red thread of the self-sustaining process. Once again, Mr Janša says, the decisions issued by the Minister are the basis for high compensation. That's not true. In Slovenia, individuals are acquitted of human rights violations directly on the basis of the provisions of Article 26 of the Constitution. It states that everyone has the right to compensation for the damage caused by unlawful conduct by the State. That 18 thousand people who had a permanent residence in our country prior to independence had not issued a decision in 1992 was illegal. This was determined by the Constitutional Court. Complaints can be brought by affected individuals today regardless of the law. It is not true, therefore, Mr Janša, that the people of the referendum on 4 April will decide on compensation, you are deceiving them. We have no influence on this, not in Parliament, nor in the people at the referendum. Mr Brejc says that decisions are issued to people without them asking. Mr Professor, if a country with inadequate legislation is allowed to live on its soil without any paper, without any status, and consequently without every right and this, although late, is recognized, it is its fundamental duty that, at the moment it finds out by official duty to all who have actually resided in Slovenia, this actual stay will also be legally recognised. It's the manners of civilized states. You want to know the example of someone else in Slovenia in this way giving something back. Allow me to introduce him to you. The Denationalisation Act, which you said you had adopted in 1991, could therefore be known to all those who were not enrolled in the Civil Books of the then Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia in 1945, provided for the issue of the decision-making and the entry of citizenship back. Why? In 1945, the postwar government did not register them in the civil books because it estimated that during World War II they had been disloyal to the authority of that time. They weren't convicted, people fled in fear of the regime. The Authority decided that, because they did not become citizens of the newly formed Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia, they would also be seized of property. In 1991, young Slovenia, a newly formed civilised state, marked this as a remedy for injustices, marked it as an unacceptable intervention in human rights and property. The 1992 law allows for the rectification of injustices and the return of property. That's right. This country costs a lot. That's why! Guilt needs to be fixed. That's what you thought and decided in 1992. And by the way. The administrative authorities have not identified any rebuttal decisions under the provisions of the Denationalisation Act in the procedures for issuing the findings. The status that the State gives to or withdraws is an important category. You, Mr. Brace, this 1945 case may have a chance to remind you of something. Not many of the things the opposition representatives say today are true. This is one of the most challenging legal issues we face today in the Republic of Slovenia. And it is not right, respectable, that you abuse this fact and prevent us from correcting the legacy of Slovenian spring, the legacy of Slovenian democracy. John Stewart Mill, already in 1859, came to an understanding and let me quote: "The fateful tendency of humanity to stop thinking about things when it is no longer disputed is the reason for half of its mistakes. This is partly because historical periods are no less misleading than individuals or groups. The truth is timeless. Yet the living have a bad habit of overestimating themselves." Respectable interpeelers, many and many untruths can be denied. And the real reasons you are quoting are no reasonable argument to vote and support your interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much, colleague Krebs. It is now the turn of colleague Jerovšek, behind him is colleague Terchón. However, the list of applicants is slowly shorter, so you can expect a brief word from the proposer and the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, on 15.10.2003, on the Committee on Internal Policy, you stated that you would have acted unlawfully, such as the opinion of the legal profession, if you had acted against the constitutional principle of legality, if you had made decisions without a legal basis. You have declared, this debate, this question has been personally exceeded for me. Unfortunately, it wasn't exceeded. At that time, you seemed to have stumbled from the spon of Markovic's party, whose branch you established in Slovenia and which unfortunately promoted against plebiscite. Today, it is obvious that, unfortunately, you have again succumbed to the pressure of your party to succumb to the pressure of a former constitutional judge, who for four years deliberately failed to solve the problem of the deleted, with a clear plan of how once those who once faced the state of Slovenia would lead to a privileged position in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Peace in the hall! There's no dispute in the bench. Comrade Jerovšek has a word and no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	You stood up for those, or you succumbed to the pressure of that group that from the puppet theater once and today is shaping the fate of Slovenia. Today it is clear that in the puppet theatre, Slovenia’s conspiracy also took place in the financial field. The intervention for Slavena Letica fell there, the Slovenian strategy of success collapsed there and now the Slovenian tribes will pay huge damages also at the expense of the Zagreb branch of the Ljubljana Bank, as the precedent was done there. And Mr. Minister, you are the head of the so-called State Department. You're supposed to be a state-run minister. However, it seems that you will sign up if you implement this policy as a state-owned minister. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Today there have been so many insults, so much disapproval, so much self-absorbing in this country. [[...]] And it is no wonder that you are so committed to the privileges of those who once took action against Slovenia. Who today does not make Milan Aksentijevic a national hero is xenophobic and impatient. In fact, it has shown who the xenophobics are and who are the impatient people of the President's proposal for appointment for certain European functions. Even with the anti-Semitism position, they rejected a candidate for the president of the country and voted impatiently against Mr Sturm, which even the minister cited as an example of legal culture. Nothing applies, no credit for the Slovenian state applies to you, you reject everything. And I must say, I am sorry, Mr Minister, that what you see as politicalization of the state administration in interpolation is much more being done, politicised and politicized in the previous period by the police. Some procedures in Maribor, such as those that the police had already worked out, where it was paying customers, for obvious corruption, were stopped. I argue that the mayor in Maribor would be different if there were no policy intervention and the procedure in the BUS case would be stopped. This corruption has been fully worked out by the police, unfortunately political intervention has taken place, police politicisation through politics. And that could be the fateful consequences for future Slovenia. I'm gonna end up here because I have to give my colleagues a little bit of time. I will support the interpolation and, of course, I also call on Slovenian citizens to go to the referendum for Slovenia. We have a re-referendum for Slovenia on Sunday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Now he has the word of a colleague of Tarchoon, a colleague of Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that I have a slight grudge too, if I may say so to the Minister of the Interior. Above all, I did not like that he was coming to the National Assembly with some attempts by the Local Self-Government Act, with proposals for reform, the reorganisation of administrative units or future administrative districts, after it became clear that we would be very difficult to change the Constitution, which would open the way to the regionalisation of Slovenia. However, in defence, the Minister must be told that this is not only in his hands, but in the hands of the two-thirds majority of this national assembly. However, because the will of the opposition that invests this interpolation is the same as it is and because we have such a coalition partner in the People's Party, which has been a little bit out of it for many years now, and even in the future, it intends to be a little bit out of it, whatever the coalition will be, it is moving away, and it is not only Mr Minister's fault. I used to be incoherent because the minister acted like an organ in his system, the police, it's none of his business. And I was wondering if he had any powers in this area. And as far as I know, he's got them, and he's acting like he doesn't have them. But let's drink some pure wine. The main thread of the story of the interpretation against Minister Bohinc is the story of the deleted. All the rest are tactile, as I think even the interpretation against Minister Kebra was a touch of this interpretation. And at this point, I wonder if it has been possible to avoid this cycle, which has been rolling for many months in the country of Slovenia, stories with deleted stories. Well, my opinion is that, in part, yes, but not entirely. After the decision of the Constitutional Court was issued, the Minister had a number of ways to resolve the problem. We know that I could have made decisions at the time - now we know this, now it can be smart, of course - and that now, although it has been quite a while, some very hot debates in this House will be over and we have come back to this point to issue decisions. Well, after consulting some lawyers, although he had a different opinion here, the minister decided on a technical law. And, gentlemen of the opposition, what you were saying at the time: don't come with a technical law, let's settle it in one law, let's settle it in a system law. Then there were stories with technical law, referendum and so on, and we came up with a system law. Of course, there have been many attempts to reconcile the matter, but none was right and none was good enough for you. You came out of a position of out-out, or whatever was, of course, unacceptable, not for us as a coalition, it was unacceptable for what was violated, for human rights. And then when there was a system law, what you started to say: let's settle it with constitutional law. And now you're saying we settle the constitutional law. So no solution is good enough. And what if the Minister were to issue decisions immediately? Would you avoid that? Partly because we would be in a situation where we are now after all this time, but not entirely because you keep talking, the Minister would not issue a decision without a legal basis. So no solution, including a direct decision-making that would be shorter, more effective, less goods, is good for you. Clearly, there are points in political and parliamentary life where politics can be pursued, whether there is something behind or not. And that's the point. And as the electoral time approaches, and when the political pulse is measured, it is the right time to start making great stories, even though these stories do not lead anywhere. I will not talk about the fact that most citizens are probably not yet clear that in fact in this story it is not a matter of citizenship, that it is not a matter of great compensation, that it is without connection to have a referendum which means nothing and which will have no consequences, but I will leave it to you to continue working in politics. Maybe some day you'll be in a situation where you have to be more responsible. Given that this story could not be completely avoided, I will not support the interpretation of Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. My friend Janš has the floor. He's been followed by a fellow Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, again. During these hours, we have heard several times from a minister who responded in a contradictory manner not only to what he said last November, which is obviously proven, but also to the contrary by what he wrote in response to the interpretation and what he said in his opening act. The Minister's statements differ most when it comes to so-called compensations. Today, we have heard the Minister's statement that no law on the so-called deleted, and not the one that is the subject of Sunday's referendum, will have any financial implications, which is a pure impossibility, if you count the financial consequences that you have when you issue decisions without law. Mr Minister, if I am well informed, you have hired an additional workforce to issue this decision, which you are further rewarding, which does this as a priority, while thousands of people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, are waiting for the various decisions that your ministry is issuing very slowly. Thousands of people are waiting in this country for administrative decisions under the authority of the government, the executive and your ministry, for months, for years, for years, for hundreds of thousands of people waiting for court decisions in this country, and there is no hurry. Only when it comes to so-called deleted cases, among which there are proven unjustified cases, but here is the rush, additional engagement and additional costs. Nor does it hold that what you are doing is really a decision-making decision, which is why we, one of the reasons, tabled the interpretation, and also does not hold that if the law were adopted, but I hope that it will not be rejected at the referendum on Sunday, it is necessary to vote against the fact that it would also have no financial consequences. Dear Minister Bohinc, the legal representative, so-called deleted, Mr Krivic, the former Constitutional Judge, is said to be not a layman who is speaking just as likely and who was also the legal representative of the party to which you belong, is said to be the United Kingdom, in the case of the Vatican Agreement and some other cases - he is obviously still the legal representative of the deleted and also of the United Kingdom - for this speaker in the National Assembly, when the law was publicly discussed, stated: "It is clear that the state of compensation for the damage that has been collected for 12 years cannot be paid out of one annual budget." And he offered the country, on behalf of the deleted, to negotiate how the payment of compensation would be divided into several state budgets. And the president of the so-called deleted society, Mr. Todorovič, said publicly on television: "I did not want Slovenian citizenship because Slovenia is an uncivilised country, but I expect Slovenia to pay me compensation because it erased me and took away my permanent residence." Don't say that what you do doesn't have any financial implications. Anyone who gets the decision back will be able to go to court with her and file a claim for compensation. The only thing that prevents this from happening is that individual cases are dealt with selectively and that these decisions are issued only to those who have been really wronged. This is a small part of these cases, as has been proved several times. It is also quite clear that, not you, Mr Minister, no government at all cannot invoke the fact that you have to hurry because you are eliminating an unconstitutional situation. This excuse would be convincing if it were the only law or if it were the only area where things had not yet been regulated as decided by the Constitutional Court. In this country, at least seven laws have been unconstitutional for years and years. Also, the Income Act, which has been unconstitutional for seven years, makes people pay higher income than they should. But you haven't fixed this marriage. You're in no hurry here. When it comes to Slovenian citizens, there is no hurry for a small person who pays income. You've been waiting for seven years, and you're totally okay with the unconstitutional situation here. You're talking about making decisions to ensure equality before the law. By issuing these decisions, you are in violation of equality before the law. As a result of the examples I have already mentioned, so do others. For example, your Minister's colleague Dimovski reduced the number of unemployed by simply deleting those who do not meet the more stringent conditions that you have sharpened from the list of unemployed. They're simply deleted from the list of unemployed, they're still out of work, only on the lists are gone. That's why you're showing that unemployment is falling. Minister Keber erased the people from the waiting lists because they can't sign in until they're allowed. And so on. And these people don't worry you. Only for foreigners, so-called deleted, among whom are people who have attacked this country, who have not been proven to have been in Slovenia at this time, and for them there is all the concern of this country. When it comes to someone in distress, such as a Croatian citizen and a politician, even the former president of the state intervenes and intervenes. But when it comes to those who lost money in the dining rooms, in Sikura, in Orion, and so on, no one moves. This is about Slovenian citizens. When will equality actually begin before the law in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Mr Minister, we expect you to give more serious answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Now he has the word of his colleague Jakič. Then we are close to the end of the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you for saying so, President. Colleagues, colleagues, imagine a hypothetical situation. I'm talking hypothetically that it won't be wrong. The name Dr Miha Brejc, after a long life and work in the institutions of the European Union in Brussels, where he holds, for example, the European Parliament, then the President of the European Parliament, then the Slovenian EU Commissioner responsible for the protection of human rights is the recognised lobbyist of the food processing industry, the citizenship of Slovenia, the permanent residence of Waterloo, the proximity of the golf course, but the French-speaking province. And there's a political divide in Belgium. Flemish on one side, Vallons on the other side, each goes its own. Permanent residents on the Walloon side receive notice that they can acquire citizenship. Of course, the conscious Slovenian, Dr. Brace, doesn't want to do this, wants to stay Slovenian in Brussels and dot. And, of course, the Valons, insulted because Dr. Brejc doesn't want to be part of the Francophony, and of course they also suspect him that he didn't lobby enough for the Vallon Interbru, they take his driver's visa the next day, and after golf holidays in the Arboretum Volči Potok and Lipica do not let him into Belgium. What do you say to the European Member, Mr Podobnik and Mr Peterle? Guilty. In Slovenia we will say the wrong world. The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg shall sit down and decide on Dr. Brejc's behalf. The Council of the European Union amends the decision and, of course, the Council of the European Union is engulfed in a wave of intolerance and demands the head of the EU Commissioner in charge of internal policy and justice. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Wrong world, we'd say. When you talk about erased ones, put yourself in their skins, and think with their eyes. Of course I'm interpreting against Dr. Brace. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] , Dr. Bohinca, Dr. Bohinca [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	I will not support it for a simple reason, because I think it is a story, especially this part that speaks about rights, despite all human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, that I think is a story that we should be paying attention to. [[...]] Last but not least, as I said a hundred times, this country, this Slovenia, has grown in respect of human rights and freedoms, and I want this country to remain on these foundations for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Better a little laugh than a little malice. Now he's got the word "proposer" for 20 minutes. As a candidate, you have the floor and you no longer have time on behalf of the Group of Members. You have 20 minutes to answer the debate. Please, Dr. Brace. It's just that you can use this time to explain your point of view at the same time. As a proposaler, you can explain your position. Yes, of course, there is no doubt about it, it can respond to the debate as a proposaler and therefore it is a proposaler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen! This latter case, prepared by Mr Jakič, also shows how he has prepared himself for this interpolation and how serious interpolation is taken by the ruling coalition. This is not about any hypothetical behaviour, it is just proof that Mr Jakič does not know what these are and what is hypothetical. But, well, we can't blame him. Today we have shown in detail with the documents that Minister Bohinc broke the law and acted unethically and created confusion. The Minister has rejected all of our accusations and has not answered the questions we have asked. Minister Bohinc, and in particular Members of the United List and the Liberal Democracy, accuse us of our claims being inaccurate, misleading - I will not repeat the damage of time - and so on. On the basis of the debate that was held in this National Assembly, we have asked about 30 questions, the majority of which have not been answered by the Minister, but are repeating the same thing over and over again, and you are following him. This is very coordinated, you never respond to the questions we ask. As you follow the blind minister and his words and read the texts they have prepared for you there, of course, you find that the opposition is not capable of deceiving, in short, of being completely unrealistic and of just making some political capital out of this interpretation. When we show the magazine Slovenian Administration, in which the minister is mentioned on the first four pages nineteen times, when we say, look, his personal adviser for contacts with the public is an editor when there is a full political text inside, says the minister, the magazine is arranged according to the rules, I am a lawyer, I assure you that everything is legally fine. When we look at the Ministry of the Interior's website, alone - well, not alone, that would be too much - politicisation, obvious politicisation of the website. Please make sure those who have the opportunity to view the Ministry of Interior's website at this time. You will see that this is true because in his reply the minister will say that this is not true and that their side is completely professional, objective, legal and I do not know what else. We refer to the Minister's incompetence in regulating the pay system. When we passed the law on the wage system in the public sector, we said, Minister, the deadline is not right. The minister went through with it, and so did you. After you saw that we were right, you came in a few months with a proposal and said, we are changing the deadline, the law will apply 1.7.2004. And the shame of the marriage, we said again, it's unrealistic. You've accepted it. Where will you listen to such opposition? Now the situation is approaching that crucial decision. On 1 July, the law must enter into force and apply, but negotiations have not yet begun. But the minister says by 15 he'll be fine. Yeah, it's great. When we mention additional pension insurance, we said no more than once, but answer the question whether the money that the civil servants gave him, 140,000, said the minister, is, says that 2.4% of the salary increase, whether that money is employed or not. The answer was, clearly, that's employee money. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act cannot be applied because the money is from employees. As we say, employees need to be provided with voluntary supplementary pension insurance, so they can choose between three companies, and you say, not to that they have no right. It's better to have one strong company. Why? Because you have already had a completely clear idea of what you will take to ensure that this insurance will be carried out by a capital company, it is perfectly clear. So who do you think you are? When it comes to a boat, you just can't believe it's true. I've been proving with the documents, the procedure for purchasing a police boat. In doing so, I referred to the State Audit Commission, which cancelled the invitation to tender. The Minister did not respond to this annulment. I hope that, in his final word, he will finally respond to what this means for the State Audit Commission to say, so this call is cancelled and null and void, what does this mean for the Minister? He's still saying everything was fine. How can everything be okay if the audit authority in the country said that, of course, the minister had acted badly. When I asked why he did not enforce the bank guarantee and with this ministry, he did not reply, in citations, 15 million tolars from this title, if he felt that the procedure was inadequate. When I asked why he didn't sign the contract by 27.12., he answered that something was wrong, of course. The higher price and so on, then he himself says he consciously decided to make a new tender. Why, then, within an optional period, the last day of the optional deadline, as the State Audit Commission had determined, went and signed the contract, which it had drawn up itself, was no longer the contract of the tenderer. So, strange conduct, not in force of the guarantee contract, but not satisfied with the procedure or with the choice. Although not satisfied, it shall sign an optional contract within the time limit of the contract and at the same time initiate a new tendering procedure. These are completely unserious things that cause us to suspect that there are other interests. They say we're listening here today from some who think they're experts because they live by the sea. But they talk like they don't know how to swim. I've been wondering what it's like with these serial boats. The Coast Guard decides on one type, as a rule, the police, the military and so on, all those dealing with the sea have the same status as usual in the regulated countries. Police buy more or less one type of car, an army of one type of car, a vessel like that and so on, for economic and many other reasons. If we look at our police's fleet, then we see that one of them's scary potpourri. They've got everything. How rational, expensive, and so forth, we know for ourselves. If Italy, Portugal, Spain, France, is a good serial boat, why isn't it for us? You didn't answer that. You claim they're gone, but that's not true. That's just not true. Do you think that abroad, the Italians, the French and so forth, the maritime states are ordering their boats in the way you order them? Please. Nor did the Minister reply because he had re-elected the contractor for the delivery of the police boat. He said this P-66 police boat was much better than before, P-111. Yeah, but that P-111 sucks. That one's lying on dry ground over there. And it broke through. And if this one is significantly better, it's still God's help. We can still see that he has great problems and that they cannot use him in a troubled sea. The minister didn't say this, he's talking about statistics, but he hasn't said how many times in difficult circumstances at sea. And, of course, why, when they delivered it, it couldn't possibly have sailed if it was so brilliant. Producers said - because its navigational capacity is not enough to withstand high waves. And because it's obvious that the minister has a lot to do with getting a deal from Jadran-Sejan, for the previous boat, he's asking questions and asking the Minister to answer them. Is it true that you took part in the privatisation of Jadran from Sežana? I'm interested, and so is the public. And in the end, that's the question about the blanks. There was a lot of talk about this, a lot of all possible statements that have and do not have anything to do with interpretation, but the fact remains that the minister first claimed that the law was necessary, and this is what the magnetograms and the media say that without the law it is impossible to enforce, to issue decisions, then he changed his mind, and today he has declared that both are good and legal. Then, recently, I think, a few discussions came back and said that, of course, the system for issuing decisions is legal, etc., and nothing about the law, what function. Yes, of course, the law has no function, no law that he himself has proposed. I asked him why you gave people the status of a foreigner with a permanent residence, but if they didn't ask for it, why are you trying to fix the status for back even those who acted against the independence of Slovenia who made fun of independence. You think it's fair to the speculators who are when they should and didn't decide to regulate their status, but today they're asking for some back-up. I also asked him what you would do in the event of the alleged violations of the electoral silence. No Minister of the Interior or any minister of this government or Prime Minister, no one has responded to the announcement that on Saturday and Sunday certain groups of people will be in breach of electoral silence, because they were precisely certain groups of people, you have not responded and have not condemned them to violate the rule of law, to be impatient, not condemned, but us. You didn't tell me, Minister, what your personal opinion is on the alleged violations of electoral silence. You know, even though it's hard to say, but it's a fact, it kind of covers things up. Those who have been against self-reliance or have retreated at that time are today mostly on the side that is fighting for the rights of the people you call deleted, and this is one of the most interesting parallels. I don't say hold on to everything, but hold on in many cases. When you talk so much about this referendum, let me just say this. There will be a referendum on Sunday, at this referendum people will decide on the law that you voted twice in this National Assembly, twice and we have warned you that the law is not good, now this law is in the referendum. We invite people, go to the referendum and show this authority what you think about how the Slovenian government, Liberal Democracy, the United List deals with citizens and citizens of Slovenia, not only with Slovenes and Slovenes, but with citizens and citizens of Slovenia. So I say that this referendum will actually show what people think about this government. I am firmly convinced that there will be great participation and I am also firmly confident that people will vote against and show you at symbolic level what you are doing - that you do not deserve the confidence of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, because what is too much is too much, but it is too much Thank you. Mr Janša will spend the rest of his time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	As foretold, colleague Janez Janša has the floor. Then he'll get the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	All hail again! First of all, I would like to reject Mr Bohintz's statements, which have been repeated here twice, if this magazine, in which the responsible editor has insulted virtually all citizens and citizens of this country, if they are among the most impatient in the world, are independent. This magazine says "the Ministry of the Interior magazine". First of all, I hear that the Ministry of the Interior magazine is independent and that the Minister has no influence on such a magazine. The editor is paid and works in the cabinet of the minister, the magazine is based at the Ministry of the Interior and a magazine with the money of everyone who pays taxes is paid by the Ministry, and this is an independent magazine. It is true, though, that in this magazine all those we pay or allow to be published are put to the test. In this defence of the Minister by representatives of the government coalition, which was a little less heated today than yesterday for Mr Kebra, so many things have been said that point to double criteria that are virtually impossible to answer, but still, to some we will try. In the case of so-called deleted, the whole matter has risen to the level of human rights and it has been said that when it comes to deleted human rights do not have a price. When Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, on behalf of the LDS Parliamentary Group at its meeting on 28 October 2003, based on the position of this parliamentary group towards the law, said: "The law before us must be adopted. Human rights and freedoms of so-called eraseds, which we must protect, have no price. In our country, we will not defend communications that are causing fear in the public, which promotes contemporary forms of intolerance." Thus, the LDS Group in October 2003. However, when we did not do so in 1997, members of the SDS proposed a law on compensation for widows and children who had fallen into the war for Slovenia, a representative of the Liberal Democracy Group, then Member Janez Kopač, who represented the position of the parliamentary group even then, said: "The amounts, in short proposed by the proponents, are beyond my reasonable framework in these matters. You must know, however, that any such legal right follows a wave of other requirements, which are then difficult to resist." And our proposal for a marriage for compensation to widows and children who had fallen into the war for Slovenia was reduced to indiscretion. Finally, the amounts that were sometimes ten times lower than they were proposed, even though the total, given the small number of people, did not represent any cost. But LDS was against it if it could be a precedent. There was a price for human rights. Very high. You gave them a very high price. But when it comes to the so-called deleted, human rights and freedoms have no price. Jakič, who likes to comment on this subject, also asked the following question at the last meeting called on his own, on 10.2.2004: Where is the evidence of this? Mr. Jakich, here's one. One of the prominent members of the so-called deleted society is former Colonel JLA Aksentijevic. Colonel Aksentijevic was a delegate in the assembly of the united work and was constantly opposed to Slovenia's independence from the speakers in the old halls of this building. At a meeting of the National Assembly, or the Assembly of the United Party on 5 March 1991, three months after the independence, or after the referendum, where we voted for independence, Colonel Aksentijevic said: "I agree with Mr Roman Jakic that the money intended to train the Slovenian army should be devoted to the development of roads, railways and so on, and that the borders of our country continue to protect JLA." Mr Jakič, here is one who has been so-called erased and was an eclectic opponent of Slovenian independence, and he also agreed with you. So you've obviously been in this category, too. Well, then there are double criteria when it comes to the so-called mandatory observance of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In 2000, you were Members, some of them the same, some others, but virtually the same government parties, most government parties, voted four times against the law that would implement the Constitutional Court decision on the majority electoral system. At that time, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, the same leader, Mr Anton Anderlič, after explaining why he had voted against the Constitutional Court's decision for the fourth time, said: "There is no God, there is no President of the party, there is no President of the other party, and so on that would force me to vote just as anyone thinks it is right. I will vote in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution, according to my conscience." The same leader of the parliamentary group said 2.2.2004: "It is undeniable that we have a decision by the Constitutional Court ordering us to settle this issue." It's like that one time, another time. Once the decision is binding, the decision is optional. So, please, let's not use double criteria, especially when we're talking about the responsibility of a minister who's proven to be in violation of the law, making decisions without a legal basis. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	And spent the money of those who pay taxes unjustifiably and proved for the purchases that are bad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, a colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, has a short period of time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Distracted from the context is what you have said, Sir Janša. The position of the LDS Club on the issue of compensation is clear all the time. The laws we have before us do not regulate compensation. However, the position of the Member Club is that, to the extent that eligible applicants request compensation, I have a position before me that the issue of the amounts of compensation is an important issue to settle in a special law if it is justified by public interest because the benefits of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia must not be jeopardised. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	Colleague Irma Pavlinič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	in the special law of compensation restricted by Mr Janša do not reverse [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you. Time's up. Now the Minister of the Interior has the floor for his closing statement, and then we will move our colleagues and colleagues to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to assess that, however, what I have estimated at the outset is that the chronic evidence in this interpretation is intended for the issue of deletion and that the political reason for this interpretation in this country is not a uniform view of the question of what happened in 1992. Was it actually a delete or not? Part of the views in this country, in particular those among the interpellationers, is the view that the Constitutional Court is wrong when it found that what we now call an expungation was carried out at that time. That those citizens, citizens of Slovenia, citizens of the former republics of Yugoslavia, who did not rely on Slovenian citizenship, were deprived of any status on 25 February and were in accordance with Article 81 of the Aliens Act, a article which was later found by the Constitutional Court to be constitutionally inconsistent, had to re-establish this status and that virtually none of them could regulate this status until autumn 1992. In fact, it is for the Minister who wants to respect the constitutional order in this country to remedy the constitutional disharmony established by the Constitutional Court. This is also my answer to the question why, at some point, I started to issue decisions after all attempts have failed to legally determine how to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. And after the Constitutional Court, in its December decision, twice quoted today, explicitly stated that neither the National Assembly nor the Ministry of the Interior is detracting from the fact that decisions are being issued immediately to the deleted. However, I would expect an assessment that the conduct of the Minister of the Interior, who is trying to remedy the constitutional imbalance in the country and which respects the constitutional order and decisions of the Constitutional Court, is what has the support of this National Assembly. I think that Slovenia will have to reach agreement on this issue. Otherwise, this unloving theme, which unfortunately also reflects in Europe, will always return to our table. I think it is crucial that we show goodwill, and as far as I am concerned, I still have much to do with this issue of consensus in some way, with a partnership in politics, we try to get it off the agenda once and for all. This question would not be right if it continued to be an apple of separation between Slovenes and Slovenians, Slovenian public, and not Slovenian politics. Last but not least, it is not such a big, big problem that we should give it such a political dimension. After all this discussion and the documentation I have submitted again, I firmly reject any illegality in the Ministry. I think I've given enough documentation for those of you who wanted to see that neither by boat nor by any other operation there was any illegality nor damage to state property. We have to trust the institution of the Court of Auditors, we have to trust the many supervisory services that are watching over our business and find that this is the case. In addition, at the principle level, I will later say something more in detail, rejecting any evidence of politicalism in the Ministry of the Interior. These are too sensitive areas belonging to this area to be able to incorporate party policy elements into the work or the police or anything else. That's just not what it is. What we have summarized on our home page, when we inform the public about various aspects related to the situation that have been deleted, was an article published or a contribution, an answer in one of our newspapers. This was not a contribution made by the Ministry of the Interior. I also reject any politicisation regarding the issue of deletion. The deletion and related solutions shall be based solely on the line set by the Constitutional Court. Allow me to conclude that today's nine-and-a-half debate has essentially focused on just a few questions. Three, four questions from the interpretation are virtually not principles. Obviously, it turned out in the preliminary preparation that this is not an interpretational relevant issue, and I will not talk about them myself, you have clearly found these accusations to be pointless. Allow me to speak to you about what you have said regarding the enforcement of decisions by the Constitutional Court. Mr Rokavec says that it should be a criterion for whether or not a decision is to be implemented, whether this decision is fair or not. I think that this position is legally very problematic. Such an attitude cannot be the foundation of a building called the rule of law. Politics does not have the right to assess the fairness of judicial decisions. And the most dangerous terrain is when we start to judge whether we are here in Parliament or people on the street, whether the judgment is fair or not. A number of judgments are not fair and, therefore, remedies are available in legal countries to remedy unfair judgments. But to put doubts, as a general political response to the fairness of judgments and from this to draw legitimacy for their disrespect, is, of course, a subjugation of the rule of law. That's what I'd like to say. Of course, it's not true that housing is human rights. In any event, human rights are his personal identity, as well as his identity, which is formally confirmed by his status. Moreover, if we believe in the Constitutional Court, and I personally believe it, there has been a deleterious injustice in the sense that the principle of equality, the principle of equality before the law and the principle of the rule of law has been undermined and a key intervention has been achieved in the human rights of the people who have been victims of this act. There's been a lot of talk here about reparations, the legal consequences of laws, the financial consequences and the like. Let me repeat the position that I have repeated several times and in which I remain, we have also written it in both marriages. Both laws do not create any direct financial consequences. Here, of course, Mr Janša is right to think about the consequences associated with the issue of decisions. It is also true that we have written and anticipated these financial consequences in the explanation of the law. Here, in particular, let me say that there is no particular urgency with regard to the issue of these decisions. If we measure time after how long these people have been waiting for 12 years, then there is absolutely no rush if decisions are now being issued in a perfectly normal way, and these people are absolutely nothing privileged in relation to those waiting for decisions in other areas. If it were time, I would be happy to report to Mr Janša and others on the extent to which we have managed to correct administrative backlogs in this ministry over the past three years and a few years. There's a lot of progress here. As with the administrative unit, here we have a special programme for the correction of arrears, special rehabilitation programmes in 12 administrative units, as well as in areas related to civil status. We have recently resolved a number of backlogs here, both in the field of foreign status and civil status. Perhaps on another occasion, I would be happy to share the results with you in this area. As regards compensation, of course, Mr Krivic is not a credible interpreter of this legal issue. Although many of you here are referring specifically to him and his company, which has said everything possible about it. The fact is that the law, neither technical nor systemic, does in any way alter the legal situation in which people who will have to prove to the court whether they are harmed or not. I said, some of these compensation claims have already been made, and no one has yet been tried in court, so we cannot talk about the number that the State of Slovenia is supposed to owe on these grounds. Currently, the state of Slovenia owes no one anything on the basis of any court decision, so of course you cannot claim this number from us. Of course, it is possible for someone to make such a claim, but I repeat, neither the technical nor the system law on the decision in this regard has any effect. We have some request from 2000, we have some claims from 2001 and 2002 and one request from 2004. This merely confirms that there is no correlation between these two laws and between the right arising, as you know, from Article 15 of the Constitution, that the capacity of the person who has been harmed by the State to impose compensation. So what will this compensation be, if any, if there is no expiration date, which Mr Krivic is also talking about and is committed to specifically regulating the settlement of injustices, three-year, five-year limitation periods. So what compensation will the courts decide, and everything in this regard is a complete speculation. And I repeat the great deception of the Slovenian public, the talk of billions, and I do not know what other costs of the countries in this regard. None of this is true. This will be decided by the Court in a procedure based on bond law and indemnity law. Any information would therefore be completely unworthy. I repeat what I said at the outset that the Ministry of the Interior was forced to start issuing decisions directly on the basis of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. There was simply no other choice if we wanted to preserve the face of the rule of law and if the minister wanted to respect constitutional order in that country. To the question you have asked here, why, suddenly with the direct decision-making, should I answer, of course, because it is my constitutional duty, which I have sworn to respect, that I will respect constitutional order in this country and that I will remove illegal and unconstitutional conditions. It is evident that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that in this regard we have an illegal or unconstitutional situation, which is now being issued in a perfectly legal manner, on the basis of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision and on the basis of the 153rd paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, also the issue of [[?]] . To repeat the figures that to date, 4,356 persons are in administrative proceedings and that each of them is treated individually in terms of determining the fulfilment of the conditions, this means actual stay in the country. Only 19 of them so far have been confirmed to be unmarried. And 190 unquestionable ones, as Mr Janša has said, but we call them controversial heats, disputed because we will perform this service once again because we find that it has been done, or as regards the signature of the one being hot or for any other reason. These deliveries will be carried out properly and will not result in any replacements or similar. The information that Mr Janša had - if I am not mistaken, he quoted it on February 14th, I think this is Sunday - was not correct. At that time and on 14 March, precisely 1,016 decisions were issued. And it's not exactly what it's like to be hot. We will, of course, inform the public later. I would like to inform you, however, that service is a process that takes some time. After the decision has been signed and sent, an important act of administrative procedure called service must be carried out and the decision shall be considered to have been issued only after the service itself has been lawfully carried out. Once again, I would like to repeat what I have done several times, so that decisions are not issued without a legal basis, that they are lawfully issued, that the legal basis of the decision is the Constitutional Court and that, as someone has said, the Minister has made his own decision or has himself taken the right to issue a decision. No, it will not, the Minister has drawn on the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is part of the Slovenian legal order. By law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, I repeat, it has been legally corrected, constitutionally permissible and in the light of the administrative procedure. Regrettably, the politicisation of this issue, the misuse of this issue for daily purposes, has led to the failure of the law to enter into force. In order to remedy the unconstitutional situation, in order for the Minister to fulfil his duty to establish a constitutionally coherent state in that country, he began to issue decisions. Therefore, I remain in the fact that the technical law has been useful, the real experiment has been, in terms of the constitutional system, a way of determining the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision. Regrettably, to put it this way, the policy has overtaken and has thus fallen away from the legal basis for direct decision-making. The issue of deleted, gentlemen, arose in 1992 and it is therefore unfair to impose responsibility on the current Minister for Home Affairs and the current government. Guiltyly because we have taken this question seriously, with the help of our profession and knowledge, to get it out of the agenda once and for all, and that somehow some shadow over the sanctity of our independence would be removed. That is why this problem would certainly erupt politically, no matter how we deal with it. We did it our best, and, as I repeat, legally correct. However, there would certainly be a politicisation of this problem in one way or another. I think it is right that, after a year of mutual accusations about how to resolve this issue, we sit at the common table and in the interest of the people of the Slovenian state, and of Slovenian independence, but we are looking for a solution that will be permanent and will not make our relations difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	More attention in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Your Honor! I would like to find that the story, invented, imposed, the story with the police boat, after today's debate, will gradually begin to end. I think that sufficient documentation has been submitted to make it quite clear that there was no damage to property here. I am pleased that this dictionary also left Mr Brejc when he cited some evidence in this regard. I think there is still a number of details in this regard that can be explained, but I think it is well-known and clear that there has been no damage here. Therefore, it does not seem essential to repeat a whole range of legal details in this regard. The fact is that the contract was signed that the contract was amended in accordance with the budgetary rules adopted in respect of temporary financing, that the contract was signed within an optional period. The fact is that the vehicle is technically capable enough. And to the particular question which surprises me about Jadro Sežana, I can tell you, Mr Brejc, that I do not have a single share of this company and I have never had it, nor have I ever participated in privatisation in this regard. But I'd like to tell you this. To all those who still doubt how the Slovenian border is protected. The Slovenian border is protected very effectively. Not only in my opinion that it is at sea, but also the border on land, but also in the view of many authorities from Brussels. We are almost able to respect the strict Schengen standards of border protection, both at sea and on land. This is recognised by the authorities, such as the Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, Vittorino, such as the people from Brussels, who are accompanying our efforts. The Schengen Action Plan is very well implemented as regards integration into the European Schengen Information System. The acquisition of technical equipment, including vessels and aircraft, is very well achieved. And I am sure that Slovenia is well on its way, not as of May 1st this year, which you wrote in interpolation as a professional nonsense, but perhaps at the end of 2006 or at the beginning of 2007 to protect the future southern border of the European Union. There is a need to distinguish between entry into the European Union and entry into the Schengen Group. Let me just repeat from the police report what was done to the boat, which some of you are having problems with. 153 patrols were assigned at sea, 465 working hours were carried out, and 18 patrols were provided in cases of rescue and search at sea. At the last moment before their death, the police rescued a citizen who was diving with his vessel. With strong storms and storms, a strong wind, a raging sea, they were able to save more people. P66, this boat was daily at sea during the season from 8 to 12 hours, often even during the nighttime. I quote from the police report as follows, and this report is credible, prepared by those who use this vessel: "In addition to the regular tasks of protecting the state border at sea and other tasks of the police, the vessel has been used several times for the most demanding rescues at sea under the most difficult weather conditions, showing its good navigational and excellent manoeuvres." Just a few phrases about eyewitnesses on the subject of collective supplementary pension insurance. Here I would like to express my surprise that we are obviously reading the same documents differently. I have here two documents which both attach to the position that in this case it is not a business that would be subject to the Public Procurement Act. This is a letter from the Public Procurement Office from 18.3. this year, and I've already quoted it before today, and I'm not going to repeat it. And this is the opinion of the Institute of Economic Law, and I quoted it, and you read it correctly from the transcript, and that's exactly how I quoted it. Thus, it says that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act do not apply to this business. This is the opinion of 3.7.2000. I would suggest that you look at these documents and see if there may be any misunderstandings in this regard. Otherwise, as far as the fund is concerned - this is Mr Brejc's explicit question - for the money he has been denied in the form of personal income payments to public servants and has agreed through his union organisations to focus on the premiums of collective pension insurance. The professional arguments in this regard that this is not a state as a contracting authority, but a country as one of the partners in the collective agreement on the pension plan is more than enough. This contract is therefore a partnership contract, and in this way the manager is also assembled, and it is professionally pointless to talk about what would be a public contract. Just a few more questions about the pay system in the public sector, the explicit issues that have been raised at the end of today. It is certainly 1.7. the beginning of the law's application our common partner goal with the unions. The nature of collective bargaining and social partnership is such that it does not suffer unilateral decision-making and subordination of power over trade union partners. This means, on our part, both of us, it is up to us to have so much interest in carrying out this big, important project for the country within the set time frame. If there is as much interest on the union side as on the government side after the dissipation, I have no doubt that this will work. The expert bases have already been prepared, and the government has submitted them to the unions. The sector-specific interviews are intensively under way and we have set ourselves, together with the unions, the goal of making all the necessary arrangements for the conclusion of a collective agreement on the public sector and on the collective agreements between the two sides in a month and a half, that is to say, by 15 May. This is an ambitious objective that corresponds to the excellent mood on the one hand and the strong will of both sides to carry out this project and to finally start eliminating disparities after the wage imbalances have not developed again since 2002. It is also of great benefit to this law that after ten years of sectoral policies in the area of wages and disparity, however, all salaries in the public sector, public servants and officials, under one roof alone, are under a system that has never been linked to public servants and officials. I will make every effort to achieve this, this will be an important national objective. However, I am joining your criticisms and also criticisms from the public that there are now many excesses coming to the surface as regards wages in the public sector. It is right that such excesses come to the surface. This is due to the fact that we have started publishing wages in the public sector. The conditions for this have been established by our ministry and I expect that the supervision of this post will be tighter and that there will be greater responsibility for managing these excesses and that this will bring things into normal legal frameworks. I will not comment because there was not much to be said in the debate about the alleged charge, but there was no proven violation of the law regarding police complaints procedures. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to present this important achievement of our ministry, because we made sure last year's amendment of the law for the first time that complaints are no longer resolved by the alleged cause of excess, by the police, or at least by the most confirmed, but are being resolved outside the police, i.e. in the special Senate at the Ministry. In this regard, we do not see any major issues, but the way these complaints have been resolved after the new and the results are promising and encouraging. There has been no criticism today and there is no basis for such criticism in relation to the interpretation of the charges made concerning the delay of legislation. Again, let me just say that there is not a single law in the Ministry of the Interior among the late laws for adapting to the European acquis, so it is not too credible to talk about delays in this regard. Nothing has been said here today about the alleged violation of the organisation regulation, so the interpolators have named it, the body in the composition, so I will not comment specifically on it, but there have been surprisingly many accusations made concerning the policy of regulating the magazine of the Slovenian Administration. I must say that I am a little surprised at the dimension that you have given the interpellationers to this issue. I don't really have any ambitions, I've never had them, and I've never expressed them in this sense to make this magazine a political exhibit of my ideological views or anything else, what you attribute to me. It is a professional information magazine that repeatedly devotes itself to one of these and this time devotes it to the deleted, just as it has ever been to any other subject. They are very diverse authors, I suggest that you read it more than once, not just this January issue, and I am sure that you will develop an opinion that it is a magazine that works according to professional criteria, works according to the principles of free authorship and certainly not under certain political or predetermined ideological frameworks. Indeed, it would not even occur to me to abuse my position in order to direct what is required to be published in this magazine. I thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues for your patience today, for the patience in your discussions, for the cultural level of dialogue. I think that today's debate has, however, helped to clear up some of the issues. However, I am particularly convinced that it has also contributed to the fact that we have been able to prove that exactly no illegality or any damage to state property in our country has been caused by the Ministry of Home Affairs under my leadership. And just the answer to one very specific question that he raised, I think it was a colleague of Dr. Brace's in relation to the electoral silence. I'm a little surprised by his question in this regard. For I cannot answer completely anything but that, as with the six other referendums so far, we will act in the manner prescribed by the law to keep an eye on the violations of the electoral silence, to publish to citizens and citizens the telephone numbers to which the alleged violations of the electoral silence should occur, we will briefly act in the manner of the law, such as our duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	With your performance, Mr. Minister of the Interior, I will conclude the debate. We'll come to a decision. First of all, I'm going to ask you kindly to look at your voting devices so that, like yesterday, all things today are free of complications. In order for the device to work flawlessly, the lamp must be lit. Now I would ask you to listen carefully to me when I read a proposal for a decision to be decided by the National Assembly. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinc. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted out, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed." We will take a decision on this proposal for a decision tabled by the interpolation initiators. Please let us vote. I'm asking for your kindness. It is not possible to determine who first raised his hand and if please, colleague Roman Jakič was first. [[...]] Then we'll go from right to left, if you don't mind. Hard to say, please don't think I'm asking for peace. [[..]] Everyone will get a chance to explain their voices. You raised your hands at the same time, it's clear to everyone that it's not possible to figure out who was first. I'll take my turn. My friend Roman Jakič has the floor. Please. Then my friend Peterle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, President. Look. I have listened today, and I have been most struck by lies, instigations, non-reality, but above all in this context by the associated disqualification and disqualification. Today it was operated with Mr. Aksentijevic in connection with my name. The motioners know that Mr Aksentijevic is not among the deleted since he was deprived of his nationality under the 1991 Citizenship Act in 1992, and I agree that he was deprived of his citizenship because I condemn him or condemn him. But of course, because someone wanted to discredit me, he also framed me for what was in the assembly of the united work. In fact, I was not against independence, it was only Mr Aksentijevic, but he is a candidate for budget adoption, a defence part where I objected that money is invested in a military horsemaker, Mr Janša, and this money I would like to give to students for scholarships, and this is, of course, my black point, with which, of course, the proposer justifies how I am connected to Mr Aksentijevic. Mr Jelinčič agrees with Mr Janša, but the Lord does not love him as I know him. But look, the opposition in democratic countries is looking at the ruling coalition and reminds it of possible violations of rights that governments sometimes try to violate or violate. Of course it's rights. With us, however, the government, the minister and the ruling coalition defend the rights acquired in Slovenia's short history. People who have been violated by their rights and are now opposition leaders are persistently seeking to violate them. And of course this is unacceptable to me and, of course, unacceptable interpretation against the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	Look at this peace in the hall! [[...]] Like yesterday, there's going to be about 30 explanations of vote today. I'm going to go in order of the parliamentary groups. Now someone from the second largest will get it. Who wants a word? There were a few hands up. Comrade Jerovšek. Then someone from the United List and so on. Could not close temporary folder: %s Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Your Honor! There are really many deleted in Slovenia. For me, truly deleted Slovenian citizens, those tens of thousands of workers who have been robbed by bankruptcy managers in Maribor and elsewhere in Slovenia for the second time with the support of your bankruptcy managers. However, I cannot support the accession of the Minister and the United List to this rehabilitation, both Aksentijevic and other most violent opponents of Slovenia's independence, which would result in high compensation. Unfortunately, you want to undermine the roots of the Slovenian state. However, citizens on the plebiscite for Slovenia will certainly resist this on Sunday. Last night, at the age of 130, Rudolph Maister’s birth, he proved to be still erased under your authority, as he was 60 years old. For I was at three civil society events in his honor. None of your clients were there from official policy. The Minister of Culture has not yet held a national celebration, and all this is happening around deleted witnesses that the values of the Slovenian country are foreign to you. To always act against it everywhere, those without whom the Slovenian state would not be. Rudolf Master is one of those. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	It's a combined list. I'm a colleague of Jerica Frostel's. Please. Then, we go in order, by the size of the groups in the circle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Dear, dear people! I don't support this interpolation, and worse than that, I think it's scary. Today's day and decision-making is more fateful than we imagine. Human civilisation has sought all its existence for human rights. We have them written down in the constitution. This is also a fundamental human rule in Europe. Hectolitres of blood were spilled for violating these fundamental rights. Today you want some to say no to a man of high professional competence. Minister Bohinc is a doctor, master and professor of law, a well-known lecturer at home and abroad. In the USA, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands. He is the author of numerous books, debates and laws. And he also has a quality with which he hoped to correct the evil which others have done before him. We came out of the Balkan horrors of no doubt happy. Every day, I get over the feeling of happiness and gratitude. I'm a war orphan. For the first time in history, we have a country of our own. We're going to Europe. We're going to Europe. We're going to Europe. The alpha and omega of today's debate have been erased and I believe they are victims of interwar reckoning. Errors and injustices that have been machined must be recognised as far as possible. Talking about compensation is a misleading lie. All other topics of interpolation are unrealistic paths with one goal. This goal will be achieved when you show people the qualities that will make you elected in the next legal elections, not by dishonest interpretations and referendums, which take away the credibility of all of us in Parliament for which we have been elected. Otherwise, my people, we can get ready to do a referendum day once a month and people go to make decisions for us, everything we should do. And then let them take our money, which they give us here fairly. Once again, interpellations, I don't support and oppose her. I also strongly oppose the referendum, which is supposed to decide on human rights, this is the wrong and uncultured, inhumane path, this is not the historical path of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	Comrade Rokavec, then my colleague Peterle, we go by the size of the sent groups in the circle ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you, for your word. I'll vote for the interpolation. However, I will also vote in favour of this interpretation on the basis of the Minister's last reply, who has literally lied. Indeed, the Minister argued that I had said that any decision of the Constitutional Court must be fair. In my implementation, I said the following: However, it is wrong to believe that all decisions of the Constitutional Court, in any country, are absolutely fair and that they cannot be resolved in another more appropriate way. The problem addressed is whether it is the willingness of the Minister, the Government, to resolve this issue in a more appropriate manner. The problem with the minister is that at a certain point he succumbed to interests and pressures in the two most powerful ruling parties. From this point of view, I believe that the Minister no longer deserves to be trusted to carry out his task, because in key decisions, the Minister must in fact have exclusive respect for the Constitution, respect for the law, as well as the issue of the current very important political situation in the country, so as not to deepen the crisis. With his decisions, the minister has deepened the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we understand what happened. What Mr Minister, under the name of Bohinc, has done is to voluntarily ignore an unfinished legislative process that will end when people decide on the referendum and no sooner. The legislative process is not concluded because we have exercised the constitutional right to speak about it. This is the usurpation of power, as it did in the old days, when one party interpreted the law today in a different way, tomorrow. The Minister has no basic democratic sense. If I had that feeling, I wouldn't say that the constitutional right to referendum is to drive the law by the opposition. What if the people decide on Sunday to support the marriage? Then I would get a legal basis for my decisions, which are now without this basis. It's no different than supporting the Democrats with this interpolation, because this will make a step towards the dignity of this country. I'll do the same on a flowery Sunday, and I'll vote against it. My voice was raised, which is not in my habit, because it's a hell of a serious matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, I think or think that Minister Bohinc is guilty. Mr. Police Minister, I also took the expression of some literary discourses from a template written by Fran Milicinski. By the way, it's Officer Bohinc's fault. And even our politicized non-professional judges with life-long mandates would be able to identify and see that. And I hope that in time, after the elections, the entire dossier will be taken over by the criminal police, the department of economic crime, which the current minister deliberately refuses to strengthen his powers and takes over his powers so that this department can act to investigate matters and then process them all further. If not now, surely not now, but after the elections very likely. The essential thing of this interpolation has certainly been erased. For the deleted, so-called, were those who handed over the weapons of the territorial defence of JLA, who signed the white deed of surrender, who wanted to stop the tanks with the flowers, which set up the party for Yugoslavia and were against the independent Republic of Slovenia, while some of us fought for a new country today. As Minister Bohinc was among those who set up against the Slovenian party. On the other hand, there are various members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats, as well as some both former and current presidents. Sunday's referendum will show how people feel about interpretation. And at the referendum, those who are for honest Slovenia and Slovenia of Slovenian citizens must circle against and I think they will circle against and say what they think about Minister Bohinc. Finally, special congratulations to the United List of Social Democrats, especially Mr Ptræ, that he managed to push the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia so deeply into the quicksand, while the United List of Social Democrats with the dry shoes is on its head. Apparently, it was a very perfidious plan and it worked. I hope that this success will also be reflected in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Does anyone want a word from DeSUS? From a text? Not at all. Then my colleague Wolf has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, vote against the interpretation of the Minister of the Council of Bohinc. I will vote to come to interpolation because this interpolation is not based on arguments, evidence, but rather on misleading, misleading, lying and discrediting. I will vote against this because the primary purpose of the interpolation is to raise political votes and the opposition has used the interpolation mainly to further mislead the public on the issue of deleted. This is undoubtedly evidence of today's debate. The latter, in some ways, proves today that Dr Brejc's proposal for interpretation has succeeded since it was submitted. The comment is superfluous. It should be pointed out, however, that the supplementary explanation given at the meeting of the national assembly does not. And a lie was presented again. This statement was not made at the press conference, but it is a concrete, concrete question and a concrete answer. Finally, I strongly oppose Mr Brejc's suggestion in the closing speech that we are those who advocate the settlement of the issue deleted in the manner required by the Constitutional Court, that in 1991 we have opposed independence and that we have hidden ourselves. I think such hints are unacceptable to those who have participated actively in the war of independence, and I expect a sincere apology from my colleague Brejc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My friend Pukšič is now on his way, followed by his colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will vote in favour of the interpretation for the following reasons. It is unjustifiable for the Ministry to issue decisions, as set out in the Constitutional Court decision written by the Constitutional Judges, including Dr Cyril Ribič, who was former President of the United Nations. In any event, such a view of the decision is significantly less credible than the opinion of the legal expert, the former Constitutional Judge, the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Tonet Jerovska, who, among other things, wrote the Constitutional Charter. Among other things, he wrote: "In doing so, those who were truly ignorant or misled may be reopened to the possibility, i.e. the hands, of exercising the rights that we have offered by Article 13 of the Constitutional Law to all those who saw their home and perception in the Republic of Slovenia in 1991. I am prepared to write a second paragraph in 1991 of Article 13 of the Constitutional Law, which must be a burden for the Constitutional Court if it is adopted by the National Assembly. So enough reasons to back up the interpolation. However, I am convinced that Sunday's decision will be very important because it will tell people whether they are willing to waive their constitutional rights and pay millions of damages to those who are not in Slovenia and do not live here in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Comrade Webber, behind you, Comrade Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Minister Rado Bohinc has taken on an extremely responsible task when he took over the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, which is a national director, and today we are pleased to note that he has contributed greatly to the stability of the government and thus to the stability of the Slovenian state. This is also reflected in all the data that make Slovenia one of the safer countries in the world. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior is aware of the problems of today's, modern time and has also drawn up a national programme for the suppression and prevention of crime in the Republic of Slovenia, a national road safety programme, a resolution on migration policy, a Schengen implementation plan for the implementation of the future border of the European Union and many other regulations under the Ministry's competence that contribute to the successful governance of the country. The results shown by all these programmes also confirm my allegations, as crime is indeed on the rise, but all forms of organised crime are well controlled. The results in the area of detection and prosecution of organised international criminal groups are relatively good, and irregular migration is tackled and so on. I can therefore conclude that, even with the responses given to all other allegations, they reject all these findings and point out that the interpolation or interpolation proponents do not contribute to the country's security and stability through this interpolation, but want to establish a government crisis, to encourage intolerance and to destabilise the country, so I will vote against the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you. Let's move forward. My friend Barovic now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. He was in front of me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u185	Excuse me! Dr. Bajuk, please, I let you go by mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The position of New Slovenia, as regards the actions of the Minister concerning the implementation and issuance of decisions relating to deleted persons, is clear. We have called on the Minister to step down, and I will not repeat our views. Otherwise, the proponents also highlighted certain, very clearly presented errors, breaches of public procurement legislation and others that are highly worrying. The Minister, with his answers to the allegations which I believe are justified, did not convince me, at least not me. However, he has called twice, and not only him, but also some colleagues, who support the work of the Minister, have referred to decisions or opinions of the Court of Auditors. I just want to tell you that these opinions are actually what you have presented them, but this opinion is based on small samples that judge around 2% of everything, this is the accepted methodology when you look at the accounts or global action, but in these examples there were none of these contracts or those acts that were discussed today, and they are part of this position taken by the tenderer. The use of the Court of Auditors’ position or opinion on these particulars is inappropriate because these cases were not examined by the Court of Auditors. I will vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to repeat it with simple words, as I said today. The issue of constitutional decisions that have been removed from the will of the National Assembly, past the will of the people to decide on the referendum and, on the other hand, the rejection and failure of constitutional decisions relating to taxes and income, non-respect, violation of the constitutional right of Slovenian workers who have remained unemployed, and this is a violation of constitutional law. They were deprived of their right to work. Not a word about them. I will no doubt vote in favour of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u189	My fellow Master Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u190	Your Honor! So we don't forget. Today's the first day in Nat. In one month we will be the first day in the European Union. This is a dream we wrote in 1991 in our own self-sustainment declaration. And since this year it could have gone smoothly, because we are very pleased to hear from foreign states how Slovenia is the story of success and how they accept us all in these links. If we hadn't made a mistake in 1992. A mistake that the current minister didn't make. The mistakes that the then government has made with President Peterlet with Defence Minister Janša. That's what we're talking about today. That's what interpolation is about. It's a referendum. In 1992, we simply did not grant the status of foreign nationals to those who did not apply for citizenship, but we deleted them from the register of permanent residents. And we made a mistake. That was decided by the Constitutional Court. Our legal system is regulated so that there is no appeal against the Constitutional Court, as the greatest guardian of human rights and constitutional arrangements. Neither does the referendum change this decision of the Constitutional Court. The decision will remain as it is. And at this referendum, we will not decide on damages, nor on the traumas that have taken place during the war of independence, but will decide on Slovenia's reputation, Slovenia's reputation today in NATO, and tomorrow in the European Union. Because of this, no one can expect me to support this kind of interpolation. I will not support her, nor will I support this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u191	I think we have had, in view of the debate so far on this issue today, a slow but patient debate, culturally, to the end. My friend Candy has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the interpolation for the following reason. Mr. Minister's making the decisions. These decisions say, Mr. This and this one, you are constantly living in Slovenia from 1992 onwards, until today when the decision has been sent to you. A third of these decisions are returned by post note, unknown, not living in Slovenia. That's crazy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u193	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u194	That's crazy. And I don't care what it is and why it makes such a decision. Such a decision is a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u195	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u196	People who don't live in Slovenia don't know how much time, and their mail comes back, unknown, it's not, it's a decision that makes no sense to them. And this country can't afford nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much. My friend Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the proposal of the interpolators for four reasons. Firstly, with the written and oral replies of the Minister, the governments and the debates, all the motions of the indictment were rejected. Secondly, the interpolators convinced me that interpolation was not only a legitimate means of parliamentary control, but could also be a subject of abuse for political purposes and irresponsible conduct, when we were put into a situation where we spent two days and two nights to discuss, if we paraphrased Scheakespar, I would say, a lot of noise for nothing, at a time when so many urgent tasks await us in the national assembly and, of course, in the government. Thirdly, a great deal of absurdity and misrepresentation of the facts that those who have caused the problem of the deleted are accused of trying to remedy the consequences of this disputed act. Fourthly, a forced referendum, which will not only mean 600 million costs for taxpayers and the risk of the spread of intolerance, but mainly the risk that Slovenia will receive critical assessments in the EU and in the Council of Europe after a number of flattering estimates of its entry into the EU, given the fact that we know that Europe is increasingly vulnerable to human rights violations and also to decide on issues that are not decided at the referendums in normal civilised countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you very much. My friend Mamić, then his friend Pec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. I was no smarter than the other 172 thousand or about 20% of the non-Slovaks at that time that could be erased today than those who are called deleted. Quite spontaneously, certainly not just in case, I felt the need to regulate some normal status that a civilized man has in a democratic society, in a country where he lives and has his family. The same option had the other 10%. Six months is not enough, but too much for the cautious, and for the reckless, it has been less than twelve years to this day. Until someone remembers them, I can't help but feel like it's not about manipulation and its own benefit politically or some other tutor. I'm not saying it's Minister Bohinc, but I don't understand him. What do you say to that if I tell you that my friend, who I asked in time to settle the same status as mine, didn't want him, doesn't want him today because of pride. This man is not at all concerned about what will happen to this law, about which Members are wasting time and money, about the reparation of damage, even if they were entitled to it. I want to know what happened to the boat. The one who tells the truth because the truth is only one can sue the one who lies. I hope something happens soon. Finally, the debate and criticism at the expense of the opposition, honourable Members of the Krebs, despite her good knowledge of legal matters did not bring me into a dilemma in order to possibly reconsider my decision-making. I will vote in favour of the interpretation of Minister Bohinc and on Sunday against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u201	Just to warn you, it is not possible to give a replica or an explanation, so please do not refer to the position of other Members and Members, but say yours. He's a friend of mine. You have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u202	Your Honors are here! In its implementation, Minister Bohinc did not respond to any thesis put forward, at least by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. At least not in such a form as to be able to say that he has touched the answer. It is true, however, that we are used to this kind of response by the Minister and the problem is in this response. Today we have shown that the Minister has violated at least three principles of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, none of the government Members were interested in this. He violated the constitutional principle of equality before the law in his current practice in the field of deleted persons. It violated the principle of the division of power in the implementation of the so-called Constitutional Court decisions and violated that basic principle of the hierarchy of legal acts. But it seems to the government Members that it does not matter whether a minister respects the Constitution, which is the highest legal act within our country. On the other hand, it is necessary to say, at least on my behalf, and I believe that even on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, that the Minister is expected, especially from the Minister in our country, to be able to distinguish between his clientele and his ministerial work. Mr. Bohinc certainly doesn't know that. The consequences are in the palm of your hand. This leads to consequences in its ministerial deficit role, which means that our country is still waiting or suffering in both urban and regional development. In this national assembly, we have met several times with a poor attempt to establish regions, and for all of this, at least in the parliamentary group, we are blaming the minister. But in any case, there was a large, high-quality response from the minister. We also estimate that it is very unwise and unwise for government Members to blame opposition Members who are trying to ensure and create constitutional order and the implementation of laws in the form prescribed. I'll support the interpolation myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We're going in the fourth round of explanations of vote, first of all, Comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u204	Thank you, President. The 8th point of interpolation says: Political abuse of the Ministry of the Interior magazine Slovenian Administration. This magazine was shown. I have to say that many times I'm skeptical of these magazines issued by the ministries. For example, I have here a magazine published by the Ministry of Environment and Space. This one, too, has an editorial, perhaps I do not agree with this editorial myself, probably members as well, but the opposition gentlemen do not, and no one remembers that they might give an interpretation for this minister. It would probably be right to look inside and see a different opinion that isn't just, I'll say, unilaterally. Perhaps another position, with a different view, would balance the matter. However, I would like to remind you of another magazine, the Slovenian Army, which has been coming out for 11 years. It worked out, I think, during the Minister's time of colleague Janša's ministry, he arranged it for the first time, I think, Mr Schmajner. I must say that this is also very nice because Minister Grizold appears on one of two, three sides, but interestingly, all ministers like to appear in this magazine, and also Mr Janša, I remember because I have been reading this for a long time because I have been in this department for a long time. And the articles and the editorials were, I must say, politically incorrect many times. I also remember some cartoons that were also distasteful. In this magazine, there has been a lot of emphasis on the support of NATU. I have seen more here, say, advocates or opponents of Slovenia entering this Euro-Atlantic organisation. So you see, we can find a lot of things everywhere, so, I'll say, this argument that's written in here is more about the hair and more about the fact that it's complemented by some other point just by the interpretation. I'll vote against the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan, a colleague of Yuri's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We've talked a lot about eraseds today, too. I don't think it's free. I'm sure someone here wanted to take us thirsty across the water with a mix-up with two laws. And in these two laws, they hid or sought to cover, above all, financial obligations that would follow from these two laws, which would be the result of these two laws. At the outset, the minister himself said that there was no financial obligation. When he corrected or lied to the legal representative of the so-called deleted, Mr Krivic, when he said behind this speaker panel or a spokeswoman that they would negotiate because they knew that there would be so much compensation that Slovenia could not pay them with one budget. Well, then we could have heard the official version that somehow these damages would be limited. That's what it says, there's already a matter that shows that something was trying to hide, that it was even a delusion. This went on so far as to say it was only about, I don't know, 150,000, but they didn't say it was just immaterial damage, and for the rest nothing. Well, let me finish. I understand why some people are so afraid to look up to people to make decisions about work, so to speak, and this is a referendum because people decide there. So far, the government has always drawn short; all the referendums, except for railways, have been negative for the government. And if people made that decision today, it would be a completely different coalition. On the web site RTV SLO says, TV Slovenia, today is a survey whether you support interpretation against the interior minister - with "yes" answered 216 with "no" 140. So it's a completely different coalition when people make decisions. That's why I understand why you're afraid to look at it -- that's 60 to 40. And that's why I'm going to support this interpolation myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u207	First he has the word of his colleague Yuri, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you, President. Interpellation is weak, it's full of untruths, ignorance of matters and, of course, it's not worth supporting. However, because the interpreters knew it was weak in one way or another, they took advantage of today's pre-referendum campaign and talked all our viewers into going to the polls on Sunday. Of course, because I have the opportunity to say something about it myself, I call on the other side: Sunday is worth some other pleasures, and of course I will not go to the referendum myself, and I expect that many other people will not go and celebrate a better day. At the end of the initiative, Minister, because there was a lot of talk about the boat to organise for all the boat's interesting sightings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Let's keep this level! My friend Sok. I'm asking for peace. Everyone has the right to explain his voice in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Just like we're exchanging, I'll support the interpellation myself. If I did not support it, I would agree with the Minister's interpretation of this National Assembly, which is one or the other. It is clear that, on the basis of the Constitutional Court decision, the Minister passed the law, has begun to issue decisions. If we have come to such a situation in this country, then I conclude that we do not need a national assembly. We can, ladies and gentlemen, pack our suitcases and go home so we don't make any costs to the state. If the Constitutional Court can rule for us, then we can say goodbye. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the United List, who are defending Mr Bohinc, because you have actually pushed him into this situation that he is now in; you have to defend him. But I am very happy that you will not go to the referendum, because this will give us a greater opportunity to win this referendum on Sunday. So, we call on our citizens and citizens to go to the referendum and vote strongly against it. And that is how I will do it myself - I will vote against this law, which you have forced, which does not mean a solution, and which also Prime Minister Rob and all the government thinks is unnecessary and actually sucks if I put it that way. I think that this process is not yet complete and that the voters will actually tell you on Sunday what has already been said today, which reveals the survey on the RTV page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u211	Comrade Juban begins the fifth round. Please, I've got it all in writing and you'll all be on your way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the proposal to dismiss the Minister. In this I see that comedy, the second act, is nearing its end. Comedy presented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. For me, Mr. President, it's a comedy. But I'm still worried about something. We have before us the current and former Minister of Home Affairs, who has been torn down by the same producers, writers, actors of stories such as we have today, constructs, implants, lies and so on. But I'm concerned about something else that was then and is still sitting in the Ministry of Interior, the police, helping these writers to paint stories that are taking place in this National Assembly and that we have comedies that are likely to continue. One condition that is harmful to this country is not good and leads to where many have warned that it is not good. I'm not going to support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace's colleague. Behind you, Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u214	Dear Mr. President! Some Members are talking about comedy tonight, about deception, and in short, everything about us who have proposed interpretation is not in the hall all day. Yesterday it was similar, the hall was empty, but at night they were talking about what we were doing in here. That's really interesting. Moreover, for example, the individual explanations of vote are not in line with the Rules of Procedure because they say everything possible. Today I'm just waiting for Mr Moge to say something about weapons and so on. Well, now it's true. The Minister and his, as I say, professional colleagues who are here today, as well as members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List, continue to praise the achievements of the Ministry of the Interior today. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not filed an intervention against the Ministry, but against the Ministry because it is a bad minister. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party greatly appreciate the work of employees in the Ministry of the Interior who are working for the good of Slovenia, but they are not themselves to blame if they have a poor minister. Thank you. I will, of course, vote in favour of this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you very much. My friend Run. Behind you, Comrade Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I will vote against the discharge of the Minister. The truths, instigations and lies that have been said today cannot be the basis for the discharge of the minister. Everything was answered with facts, with arguments. Anyone who doesn't know the arguments and the facts doesn't believe, he's just going to vote in favour. It was clear to all today that the interpolation was only and exclusively for the sake of deleted. At the same time, you have spoken against the Minister or the promoters of the interpretation, the rights of deleted persons cannot be regulated, there has been no injustice, there has been no erasure because they are so-called self-existence. There's no need for technical law. No decision shall be taken. Then what can we do? What you say all the time. Nothing. But if we do nothing, we will preserve the injustices that were committed in 1992. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is also right to say that such a referendum will also make sense on Sunday. You claim that Sunday's referendum, a referendum on the work of the government, will be a referendum on the achievements of self-reliance and the like, which is all purely a lie. This referendum, as you represent it, will not be the highest democratic form of people's statements, but will be manipulation of people. Therefore, anyone who does not want to legitimize such conduct will remain at home. And last but not least, the United List, ladies and gentlemen, was active and active in the period before and after independence for independent and independent Slovenia. Much more than many of you who are sitting here today. We're proud of that. But we want these values to be maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u217	Colleague Zupan, follow you, colleague Majnik. First, my colleague Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will vote in favour of the Minister's interpretation because he has not convinced me of his answers. I believe that, Mr Minister, you are responsible for the situation in the case of the so-called deleted, I know this area most, and therefore are responsible for the inadequate enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. In cases of deleted opposition, you simply pushed the opposition to the brink, did not take into account any of our proposals, and did not create a situation for more equal roles as a responsible minister, and as a poor listener, you implemented a solution that I do not think is appropriate. I can only hope that, after the consolidation of the will of the people, you will be expressed in the Sunday referendum, and I am confident that people will decide against the law, so that at least you will try to be a better professional implementer of the instructions that voters will give you. Or I'm wrong. In a country with a good, modern and advanced democracy, which we want to at least be similar to, every power must cooperate with the electorate. In the implementation of the objectives and priorities and of mutual control, the authorities must carry out their work in a qualitative manner. And in doing so, the ruling coalition and with it you, Mr. Minister, who is responsible for this area, have failed the exam, so you deserve a negative assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. My colleague Majnik is starting a new round.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Today, among other things, we have heard that we have to interpret the minister because he carries all his luggage from the old regime. Some people would just interpel citizens, even though they call themselves democrats. I have a feeling that this failure to resolve the problem, which we call deleted, by the opposition, is a very clear example of an attempt to eliminate the heavy burden of mistakes that the then ruling Demos had imposed. During the discussion, a fellow who spoke of this as a mistake, some argued that this was not a mistake, but that it was a conscious act. If that's true, then it's even worse. There was a lot of demagogies, a lot of lies. On the plebiscite, we decided mainly on rights, including those brought by denationalisation. And even for the fact that today in the National Assembly, colleagues who had not been here for decades lived elsewhere and could not know what was in our luggage. But I am proud of her, because she is a part of me, she has brought a new country, brought values, freedom, human rights and respect for the principles of the rule of law. And interpelling a minister who respects the Constitutional Court's decision is an extremely frivolous act. I'm sure I won't support the interpolation itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u221	SDS, anyone want a word? Don't you? Then my friend Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u222	On behalf of the parliamentary group, only if someone has been notified [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u223	Please, please, you have the floor. We will go in line, otherwise it is not possible to hold a debate in an organised manner. You have the floor, Comrade Janša, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u224	Okay, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u225	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u226	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u227	Three minutes. Please, I'll take this time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u228	The SDS Group will vote in favour of the interpolation. We doubt there'll be enough votes. We are confident, however, that at Sunday's vote, which will reject the law proposed by Mr Bohinc, will be more than enough. That is why we will go to the referendum and vote against it, despite the fact that some here are calling for a boycott of this referendum. The statements that the referendum is not necessary, the calls for boycott of this referendum, are nothing new. We also met in 1990 before the plebiscite for independent Slovenia. If we are correct, we must say that at that time the parties represented here today, which already existed, supported a plebiscite decision. There was, however, a party that had only just been established and was called the Social Democratic Union - whose president then became Rastko Močnik, Mr Bohinc, today's Minister of Home Affairs, who was the chairman of the Main Committee - who called for a boycott of the referendum or plebiscite. In the announcement issued at the end of November in Del, Rastko Močnik, speaking the same things that we are listening to today, plebiscite is not needed, plebiscite will be harmful, we will not decide anything. Today we listen exactly the same in a similar matter, that the decision at the referendum on Sunday will be manipulation, even for plebiscite we have heard that this will be manipulation. Mr Minister spoke today about defending the values of collective independence I am pleased to talk today about collective independence, because that is when his own party called the trees into international isolation of Slovenia and headless militarisation. Change of attitude, not the only one, we welcome. We don't expect the interpolation to work today. However, we expect that the governing majority, which will prevent this, will certainly not receive the majority support on Sunday and that the majority who will decide on Sunday, even though you are calling for a boycott, will decide who will not come, will leave the decision to those who want to make the decision. This majority, which will decide on Sunday, will soon also decide what majority will be sitting in this Parliament in the coming term, and then the illegalities we report to the minister will no longer be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much. It's Bevk's turn. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote against the interpretation. The National Assembly, thanks to the interpolators, lost precious 48 hours, two full days that could be usefully used to speed up the implementation of European legislation. For two days you are representatives of the Slovenian Coalition together with the People's Party and some individual satellites accused the Minister of Health of Dr Dušan Kebra and the Minister of the Interior of Dr. Rad Bohinca, both of whom have been very successful in their arguments and have effectively rejected the statements made by the interpolators. The government coalition, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the United List of Social Democrats were successfully defended yesterday by Dr. Kebra, and certainly today the result will not be significantly different with Dr. Rad Bohinc. Your attempt to destabilise the government coalition failed, and in part you convinced only its weakest member, who has been sitting on two chairs for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to apologize for being in the previous debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u233	If there's no peace in the hall, we won't hear from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u234	I raised my voice and I hope you'll forgive me. [[...]] Today, we have heard quite a bit of cumular and congregational language that we have not heard in a long time, and I can see that some have not forgotten it. Let me remind you that there were quite a number of moles in Demos' government who came from the former government and then dispersed later when they did their work, elsewhere. I would also like to say that I congratulate the United List so elegantly that they carried out the problem. Indeed, some parties, in particular this list, have some problems and a large, large deficit in human rights territory. They cooked cowardly eggs, they were wiped clean from it, and now they have what they wanted: human rights. Congratulations and I hope you've read this well to your friends in other parties. But I would tell the Minister that his language and his excuses or his explanation were entirely Qumrov, and I hope that you will remain in this language so that we will listen to you in this language. But I wish you a bon voyage in your political career. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u236	If that were the case, if the eight hundred JLA officers, who had even been eliminated, had been indicted against all those cases, they would not have had these problems today. I don't know why the Secretary of Defense didn't explain it, why they didn't do it. Instead, why did some of the few officers employ even in territorial defense? Some say it was because the tank drivers were missing. And why, for example, did some members of the territorial defence who thought they were citizens of the Republic of Slovenia also disappear, but were not born in Slovenia? You see, between all these extremes, we have to solve the problems and we can only solve them by correcting the injustices behind us, I don't mean to support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, behind you, colleague of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Oh, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u239	Order! I'm asking for peace in the hall! You justly demand this peace and I'll give it to you in time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u240	All of you! All of you! All of you! Respectable people! I must remind you that you will not, if you have accidentally forgotten, live in a modern state of law, this has been said earlier by an important representative of the National Assembly. You live in a modern, legal state so you won't forget it. By the way, if ministers are illegally spending or domestically spending your money, it doesn't matter at all. And if we prove it with the documents, it doesn't matter at all. And that's all right, and that's all within a modern, legal state. And this representative has also talked a lot about why we don't want to admit some of the mistakes we've made. I don't see them. In the opposition, you can't actually make any big mistakes, even if you're doing a lot or you're not doing anything, because it doesn't matter because you're being voted on, even in this case. Why don't you just admit to what we're about to prove to you with the documents? The only idiot who admits his mistake may be me who admitted that I did something wrong there. And none of this takes into account that in these eight years I have distributed millions of money, such as among humanitarian organisations, the poor, helped wherever possible. But no one took that into account at the time. At the time, they were just beating on me because I confessed something that maybe no one else would. And that's what you should do. Admitting what you did wrong. And that needs to be confirmed today. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you very much. It's my colleague's turn. Behind you, comrade Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll vote against the interpolation. I think that when I vote against interpretation, I vote for the rule of law, for the protection of human rights, because I vote for the freedom of everyone in the country of Slovenia, because I vote for stable and sustainable development and because I vote for a good life. If I vote and those who vote in favour of interpolation will vote in favour of manipulation, for lies, for discredits, for false pretenses, for short for a dictatorship of lies. Today, in this National Assembly, we have actually heard so many lies that I hope that all those historians and archivists who will read the complete material will not be so disdainful as I have had the opportunity all night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u243	My fellow Master Kramberger. After you, Comrade Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers! I must tell you, and also you, colleagues and colleagues, that on behalf of an article of the coalition, which is becoming ever stronger and in which internal democracy applies in accordance with our current constitution, I can tell you that there is no need for you to be afraid for us. As for the interpretation, Mr Minister, I must say that it is not true, Minister, that you simply comply with the constitutional decision, and it is not true that this is why you are being demolished. You have experienced interpretation because you have decided to issue decisions before the legal procedure with the technical law has ended. That's why you've experienced interpolation and because you're only fulfilling part of the 8th point, so that's the part that you think is right. As for the referendum, we trust people and know that they will make the right decision and vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u245	Mag. Squirrel, Mr. Beumann will be next. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u246	In fact, today it is decided on the dignity of this country, whether we will subjugate the state and its dignity to some who do not care about the loyalty of this country, or whether it will be the other way around to respect the rule of law. This is actually what is being voted on today. By a convincing majority, 75%, listeners or readers of the Diary claimed that it was necessary to support the interpretation of the Interior Minister for his actions, which are also mentioned in the proposal for interpretation. In the opposition, we proposed a law or amendment that would solve the problem in a way that would verify anyone who could possibly have been wronged by a procedure that would be prescribed and his role. But not in such a way as to impose on him. We've already told you that. If you continue to do so with the country, the country will become like that boat in the Gulf of Piran which is constantly in repair and will eventually remain dry. That's how it's gonna be with this country. Those who do not guarantee dignity will lose out in full. And that's how it can happen to our country. I think that the citizens will say what is going on with this interpretation at the referendum with a convincing majority will say that this law is wrong, that this law that you have tried to make, I think you have made a big mistake. I'll support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Buddy Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u248	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that big mistakes, big injustices, big problems have been made. We're trying to get rid of them, and the opposition won't let us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u249	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u250	Don't let her do anything, do everything in her power. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u251	Everyone has the right to his opinion and the right to respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u252	Thank you for letting me finish. There's something I'd like to say. I'm among those who are active participants in the self-sustaining war. Since then, I've known a lot of people on different sides. I know a territorial man who was wiped out because the poor guy didn't know he wasn't Slovenian. I know someone who, at the same time as the disappearance took place, counted big money, tens of millions of marks at the time people were wiped out, because earlier, my colleague Brace was saying that someone was going to pull the gun, but I was going to be the first one. I know a lot of things back then. The story of the deleted is also closely related to that time, as well as to the arms trade. However, there is certainly no way for me to vote in favour of the intervention of a minister who respects the constitutional order of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u253	A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs. We have three more explanations, and we're done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u254	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! In dictatorships, they decide what is in accordance with the Constitution, politics and in democratic countries, the Constitutional Court. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Members of the New Slovenia and of the Slovenian People's Party have chosen a model of dictatorship and claim today all day, you claimed that you know what is in accordance with the Constitution, better than a constitutional court. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we stand in a democratic position and acknowledge the Constitutional Court's role to decide on constitutionality and legality, and thus, where necessary, also in the political activities of the legislative and executive authorities. Since we cannot support the model of dictatorship, but only democracy, I will vote against the interpretation of Minister Rad Bohinc. And I will not go to Janša's referendum; only Mr Janša needs it for the election campaign to speak for three months that he has won. The law implementing the Constitutional Court ruling would be welcome, but since Mr Janša does not wish to be in force, we will use the solutions offered by the Constitutional Court and we will eliminate the injustices on the basis of a provisional legal norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u255	My friend Rupar has a word behind him, Comrade Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u256	Yeah, well, this is all becoming a farce, Mr. President. And I'm gonna run into a little bit more light darkness myself, not dictatorship. Mr. Beumann said he'd be the first to draw the weapon, if I understood correctly, that you'd be the first to shoot. Well, given that I was appointed today as an interpreter, but now in Beumann's style, I would say, give me the terminator, it would be better, because I will continue to fight against the privileges, I will fight for equality before the law, I will fight for the injustices of those Slovenians and Slovenes that you have taken away from them and for whom you no longer want to hear. Well, if I'm gonna go down the hall a little bit more, then let me copy my buddy Bevek a little bit more. Although he has reached out to the weakest article, I will go to another medium and I will say this: in two days of interpolation you have already used half of it last night; the voice of the people, ladies and gentlemen, is waiting for you on Sunday, but an emergency call will be called a few days before the elections, because the devil will come to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u257	My friend Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u259	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u260	I have already mentioned my intention in voting in the debate. Let me briefly state my reasons for voting against the interpretation. Firstly, because the Minister regulates the issue of so-called deleted persons, which he has not cooked, nor is the party to which we both belong, because the Minister in law and regulation regulated the appeal procedure concerning the work of police officers and because the boat that was bought in his mandate or purchased from budget resources in his mandate is in the sea and performs his duties. The boat, which you talked about for the most part, was not purchased in this mandate or under the mandate of Minister Dr. Rad Bohinec. I therefore strongly oppose interpretation, because there are simply no reasons for it, but it is true that the management of an unpopular base, such as internal affairs, is a kind of art of survival. Also, when we were talking a little bit about the weakest article in the joke, we usually end up with "adio".
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u261	Look, there's nothing wrong, I'd rather have a witty comment from all sides than a insulting one, but I suggest that it's not necessary for everyone to explain their voice, it's not an obligation of the Rules of Procedure. He's got a few more applications. It's my buddy's turn. It's still the turn of my colleague Partljič and Mogo, and so on, but in the back is my colleague Kremjar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u262	Thank you very much. This interpolation has one serious matter and something a little less serious. It is a serious threat, which I have already talked about today, which implies some other way of leading the country in a normal democratic system. This is a serious threat and is therefore worth mentioning and it is therefore necessary to support the Minister, at least in the part where absolute respect for the Constitution and the Constitutional Court is involved. The second part, which is a trifle, I would say, is cheery, but it is part of - where some interpretation is where one of the main points is, whether a minister appears in a magazine 18 times or 19 times. However, the minister is not a mechanic in the end, but a minister, and they will have to take care of the boat in a different way. The referendum, about which we are a few rivers and which is also connected here - is related to the law that it has, believe me, four articles. Article 1: Content of the law, Article 2: Introduction of the procedure, issuance of the decision and registration of the address in the register; Article 3: Record of decisions issued under this law and application and transmission of the data in the records and Article 4 of the final provision. People will vote on Sunday, while they will be at mass or on a walk or in stores as long as they are open. They will vote on this. And nothing else. And that's why such things, which are written in this interpretation, and like yesterday's unproven thesis, because someone thinks so - to which the Minister replied, cannot be a serious basis for a minister no longer being a minister. It is not a serious basis, so of course I cannot vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u263	My friend Partich. Comrade Partich, he has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u264	First of all, I apologize, and Mr President and my colleagues, because I am calling because I really didn't want to answer. But I'll explain my voice first. Well, I won't support the interpolation. First of all, I find it unhygienic to destroy my own government. And secondly, I think that this soup that the minister is going to have to eat today is not actually cooked or cooked. His unfortunate circumstance is that he's being served now. Now I would say, "Kelemina, if you don't mind me," as my colleague Kelemin did, he would have told the people. I'd say it was a little clapping around here, a little laughing, but someone was talking about comedy. I'd like to specifically say that comedy is a noble literary species and it has nothing to do with it. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Think of the dream of a sleepover. [[...]] Yes, I answer to my colleague, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u265	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u266	But you also answered him - the Lord Micah, who is now nodding to me, with the same word. [[...]] Think of the Dream of Dream Night and the Auditor, the Molière comedies, and you'll see that you would actually sin if you actually did that to people -- I wrote a comedy of Politics, my illness, that's the closest, even closer to it. So please don't use those nice words for what's going on here between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u267	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u268	To vote against my minister, I've shown it many times, then I'm [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u269	I'm sorry, colleague Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u270	voted in favour of the discharge of Minister Kopač. [[...]] Of all the Members, when the rights of Members were being fought, there are 4 of us, last but not least, who were rebellious and we voted for them, and today I would also vote in favour of the Minister's discharge. I'll tell you why later. So, dear colleagues, I can tell you that we can't even fix a piano out here. We've turned the lobby into something like a whole Hollywood national council and nothing else. And of what we mean in this congregation and what is happening out there, we might consider. But it's on the edge. In other words, Minister, you, besides the Ministry of Defence, are responsible for the security of this country. You haven't exposed any burglaries to any of the parliamentary apartments. You haven't exposed a single burglary to the President of the National Assembly's apartment. With the minister. You haven't yet revealed who took the central records that came out of the country in any way. I don't blame you. But I resent something, and this to you, who gave you the interpretation and who you have the chairman of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Committee, that you didn't hang up on the minister that he didn't do almost anything and that he didn't reveal for the security of the country why the documents from the Depala village, stored in the Treasury, appeared on the website of one party. This minister, which was in the ministerial rooms and which disappeared from there, what was needed for the daily political use of politics, but you were not aware if this were obvious and you did not have an answer to it, but believe me, I would vote in favour of this interpretation, and so I will vote against it because it seems to me that the pure abuse of the Institute is for political purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u271	Comrade Master of Tradition, you're the last of my list. So I'd call my colleagues at the gym.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the interpretation against Minister Bohinc because the debate has convinced me that the interpretation is built on torn legs. Last but not least, the interpellations' proponents were also aware of this because, during the discussion, they were spreading the charges at the expense of Minister Bohinc. Well, interestingly enough, only one department, Secretary of State of Virant, was not in possession of this honor. What has been said in this context many times about the people and because some refer to the authority of the people in this country, I would like to speak on behalf of that part of the people who think politically in the same way as I think. Since the people are not politically amorphous, the people are politically heterogeneous, and so is the composition of this national assembly. Well, I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u273	Comrade Anderlich, colleague Visjak. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u274	On behalf of the Group of Members. Of course, it will not be difficult to find that I reject the intervention against the Minister, not only because of what Mr Partljič said and of course the Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy agree, but because today's interpolation is actually proof of what the interpolators were trying to prove yesterday that the interpolation is but an act of concrete perceptions, evidentiary things and also of course foreseeable consequences. And today - what a twist! All in general and all on average, but after all, all with one goal: to show how this government - without the SLS of course, which is now in a dedicated place and is considered the only fair party, how all the other parties to the coalition are guilty of the Slovenes, until the independence and I don't know what else. Of course, that's not what we're talking about today. You wanted to say that it was wrong that what came to the government in 1999 was at the table of Drnovškov, if I may say so, it was at the table of Bajuk, it was at Drnovškov's table again, and it is now, if you want, on the table of Robov. And, isn't it too long for the whole thing to go around and not to sort out some things we should've done a long time ago? Of course, I would be thinking about supporting the discharge of the Minister if at least at one point we showed how to solve this problem; you are not talking about one law, not another law, you are not dealing with it, and that these rights are not regulated as stated in the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, the question is whether it would be appropriate to discuss some of the things that the minister and the government should or could arrange - but this is obviously not in your interest and is not on the agenda. What will or will be the subject of a referendum decision shall be immediately indicated where it is decided. One more thing. It is not true that the situation is identical in 2000; in 2000 we changed the Constitution by a decision of the Constitutional Court and it was a decision [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Exceeded [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u275	A colleague of mags. Vizjak, behind him is colleague Merlo and Pohorec, and then we'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I will support the interpretation, especially for this reason, because I believe that the Minister should gather more patience, more will and also more desire to achieve on such a sensitive issue as the case of deleted, a consensus that would not ultimately undermine some of the values that are important for the creation of Slovenia. I think that the Minister has moved too far when he began to issue decisions before the end of a procedure that took place in this House. I think that he did this too early, because it was also the opposition's will to resolve this problem, that we finally put the law of constitutional nature into the parliamentary procedure with which we wanted to settle this issue, but when you started issuing the decisions, we withdrew it because it was no longer meaningful. So it is not true that we did not want to seek and find a solution to these questions, but you did not want to settle them in the way we proposed. This is that cases are dealt with selectively to correct the injustices of those who have been done to them, but not to grant the status all the contrary: also of those who are not yet in the country, and of those who have participated in Slovenia and have also turned against Slovenia. That he was just an unhappy minister because he waited and waited until he had to do it - it's not true. The Income Act is a typical case where the Constitutional Court's decision is not yet an arrangement for children's relief. But the law waits and waits and waits. This one can wait! I therefore stress once again that we would support any solution that deals selectively with cases and which would, of course, limit the possibility of enormous compensation. But unfortunately, Minister, there was no will, maybe no patience, and that is why, of course, I will support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u277	My friend Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I must say that I will not support interpellations against the Minister, especially since the interpellationers did not listen to me either by reason or by means of these quasi-proofs. I must admit that the unexpected and welcome I have come to know and educate myself in some areas, such as: how and what kind of vessel you buy, what the newspaper should be like, and I don't know what the political abuse of a political newspaper should be like today's first opportunity to see it in front of me, and some similar issues are being published by other ministries. But I remembered that in the old country we also had some of those newspapers that we know about, what their destiny was, and I don't know what their purpose was, when they came from the printery past us, directly, not to say, they went to recycling. A little joke, a little bit, I think, or I'm sure that this interpolation was more of a consequence, like yesterday's, more like the start of some pre-election campaign, a fight that was just launched by the parties who proposed the interpolation. Unfortunately, however, I must point out that my style was not best written on my skin, because unfortunately today's intellectuals were falling on the backs of 18,000 people, for whom I think they were often nothing to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u279	There are two more on my list, if there are no new applications, these are colleagues Tanko and Pohorec. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u280	Not only Forum 21, which will be set up in a few hours and will represent the passage of this official policy. We don't care where this boat named Slovenia sails in the opposition either. That is why I will support this interpolation, because most of the ruling coalition has decided that this project will be implemented by "power or soap" - if I express myself in the language deleted. If the situation is favourable - by technical and systemic law, if the situation is not favourable - by direct decision-making. Well, there's been an unpleasant situation, a complication on the way, and you've decided on this second option. I think you've abused the things you've used in these procedures, and you've also advocated a non-participation invitation to Sunday's referendum is, according to my assessment, a fraud. This is for the public, for those who listen to this, may indeed be an invitation not to participate, but I am sure that the public are working and that participation on your part will also be extremely good. Nevertheless, because you accused us of being a xenophobic opposition, we have a Member among us, who is from this population 170,000, who have taken over Slovenian citizenship, and has received a post in this national assembly. All those who have received most of the votes from the people who have been granted citizenship do not have it, and you probably have not had it on the lists. And as far as public procurement is concerned, that's what I'd like to say, Mr. Minister. Three ways are: through negotiations, an open and limited way. You chose the boat in an open manner. There's no negotiation, there's no blackmail with the contract. When you terminated the contract, you forced him to resign because you wanted him to lower the price, and then you made a new tender and you made a contract for 30% more expensive. And in this part, you've abused the matter. That is why I will support this interpretation, and I will vote against your law in the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u281	Comrade Pohorec, then Comrade Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u282	Thank you for your word. As always, I'm going to the polls on Sunday or the election because I've always gone to every referendum and every election. I will vote on my conscience. However, since it is known how I voted here, I will also vote in the referendum. And today I will vote in favour, but support to the Minister, not for interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u283	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u284	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to tell my buddy Tank how you recognize anti-Semitism. You recognize him by saying anti-Semite, my best friend is a Jew. So much for that. Otherwise, I'm very disappointed in both interpolations. Yesterday, 30 of you sat there and watched Dr. Kebra bewitched, without having one man among you, if you have men and women to know, you've been able to hide it successfully, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u285	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u286	That was yesterday, but you didn't cut yourself any better today. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u287	There's no controversy in the bench, no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u288	Even though you thought the Home Secretary would be easier to eat, you broke your teeth here, too. [[...]] Yeah, because I don't know who I could give you to be your equal partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u289	Please, Comrade Germich. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. So, of course, when we decided, more than ten years ago, with a large majority, that we want to change the values that have been valid for decades and build on the values of freedom, democracy, human rights and countries based on the law, which are also the fundamental values of the European Union, to which we pass and become full members on 1 May, it seems to me that today's discussion on the interpretation of the Minister is also about the attitude of Slovenian society towards these values. We hear many times from the opposition that the school system does not build values, it does not raise young people in respect of these values - I think it is a very important message that we are giving today, not this European community, but, above all, a message to our home public. When we join the European Union of nations based on these values, are we willing to respect these values at home? And since this debate is under way today, of course, I will vote against Minister Bohinc's interpretation because I feel that the basis of respect for these values will also show this result today, and my voice, of course, goes to respect these values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u291	He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u292	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is slowly closing. This year's election time and interpolation are an integral part of this election year. We will simply resolve the case or problem of the deleted after the elections, which will be in November this year with the other law, which is also the only one suitable to solve this problem. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u293	Let's be please. [[...]] I think we are done with the explanation of the votes and moving on to the decision-making process. Colleagues and colleagues, please come to the hall, I ask you once again politely to check the voting device, the light must be on fire, that is, everything is ready for decision. I will put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, give an untrust to the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Rad Bohinc." In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if it is voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We decide on the proposal for a decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision. A contract? Comrade Lavrinz. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u294	I'm sorry, but this device isn't working.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u295	It's not working? Even though you checked earlier?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u296	He's working now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u297	Look. Not once, but more than once today you've asked to look at the operation of your device, and I think everyone would rightly consider it an insult if you did it again. But since the hand was raised at a time when the computer recorded your decision, and I noticed it, as I have always done so far, I will put the decision to the vote again. Once again, if this had been done after a known result, I would not have done so. So once again, I would like to take the floor that, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, the National Assembly would say no to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rad Bohinc. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 79 present, 30 for, 46 versus. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been voted on, that this point is so concluded and that we can move on to the following. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the co-workers for participating at this point. We still have a few more obligations on our agenda and they're gonna take some time. And I'd like to ask your attention. Let's go in one order. We're at the 4th item of the agenda. Now I'm going to ask for your kindness, please! We'll decide other things. Minister! Are you so kind? Minister! Please! We are moving on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the criminal code On Tuesday 23 of this month, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third hearing would be held on the basis of Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. And now we're with her. I do not know that the text would be [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] We'll decide the whole marriage. [[...]] I have no information that the text would be inconsistent. Anyone else wants to explain their vote before then, or we're going to make a full decision on the law. Peace in the hall! Comrade Roman Jakič, please, colleague Jakič, we are in the middle of deciding the laws. We are voting on the law as a whole. Attending 72, 56 for and 7 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. In the following 5th item of the agenda, in the third reading of the proposal for a law on corporate income tax, we will move to third reading, as stated. There are no amendments, so we can make a full decision on the law. I also have no information that the text would be inconsistent. Is that right? Then we can determine the law as a whole. We're voting. Present 73, 49 for and 18 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] The law was adopted, the point is closed. We are on the third reading of the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. I note that we could move on to decision-making in the context of the third hearing. I have no information that the text would be inconsistent. Can we decide the whole marriage? Okay. We are voting on the law as a whole. Attending 74, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. Let's move on. The 7th item of the agenda - third reading - the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence. I'll point you to the quorum here. In order for the position or the law to be adopted, we must, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124, vote with two thirds "in favour" of Members and Members present. We can move on to a decision on the law. Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. I'll explain my voice. Today we have been adopted in NATO, and I believe that we must comply with our legislation with the requirements and expectations as set out in the NATO countries. It is important, however, - which we have opposed and also made an amendment - that this law is unduly divided and does not respect the general law on pension and disability insurance. This detail, which may be irrelevant to someone, if I may remind you, is that of those five years when an exception is made for people with disabilities or for such persons in the military who are no longer able to do their work so far, but for other people with disabilities in such and other companies we do not have any hearing to solve them in the same way or otherwise. This matter is for citizens and for our party, which puts equality at the forefront both before the Constitution and before all laws and that all citizens should be equal. With a heavy heart, just for the first reason, I will vote in favour of this law, because otherwise, if we hadn't been admitted to NATO today, I would have abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u299	Please, Comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u300	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act is one of the last activities to complement the system-wide regime of the defence area before Slovenia's full membership in the European Union and NATO. The solution to the problem of personnel mismatches in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army is one of the obligations created by the transition to the professionalization of the Slovenian army and cannot be delayed by the resolution of the problem. We know that, for this reason, the Ministry of Defence, as a proponent, has been looking for political consensus and support for all parliamentary groups for some time. Regardless of the fact that amendments have been tabled, which should also address the area of veteran organisations and veterans of the Slovenian army and the maneuvering structures of national protection, we appeal to colleagues who have decided that they may not vote in favour of this law precisely because they support the law - we need a two-thirds majority - and in particular the commitment to resolve this issue as we have said in the debate, in the second legislation governing this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u301	I understand we can move on to the law. Once again, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Constitution, the proposed law will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Please, let's make a decision. We're voting! 74 present, 60 for, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. The 8th item of the agenda - the third item deals with the proposal of the law on environmental protection. Please be careful. Can you take into account the revision of the amendments to the draft Environmental Protection Act in third reading? It's got a number 8. The review is from 30.3. It contains amendments to 110., 111. and 186. We'll decide and discuss it in a row. First, Article 110, four LDS, ZLS, SLS and DeSUS shall submit an amendment under order number 1, and the Slovenian Democratic Party or its Group of Members shall submit an amendment under order number 2. I'm putting both amendments to the debate. We'll make a successful decision. Who wants a word? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. I must say, I am increasingly disappointed by the proposals that come to this law. At the proposal of the Youth Party a few days ago, we voted, however, that the funds collected by the fees for environmental pollution taxes should be fully devoted to the implementation of the environmental burden reduction works. Today, the coalition is proposing that the funds collected and paid by environmental polluters should not be used in full for the purpose of environmental recovery or to improve the state of the environment and that we have a similar story in this area, such as the story of the gas toll. In short, the budget or whatever the one who manages it is likely to devote part of the funds to solving environmental problems and a large part of the funds to various other budgetary and non-budgetary issues, and I do not know what kind of expenditure. In short, it is one game where the ministry will only decide how much money it will spend to remedy problems. In order at the same time to have terrible problems with key environmental indicators not improving; even on the contrary, key environmental indicators are even getting worse for us. And we will not support this first amendment in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u303	A fellow cremator. Please, please have your word, I thought you were done. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u304	With regard to the second amendment, however, we allow for the diction set out in paragraph 1 to be completed and, in some way, it is possible that, on the basis of the programme drawn up by the municipality, those funds, which would otherwise have been the new revenue of the state budget, could be retained on the basis of the programme in the municipalities for environmental pollution reduction projects. In short, what has been kind of regulated by the regulation so far, we are trying to regulate, supplement and transpose with the new paragraph 12 by making a basis for action to be taken. If this clause is not accepted, this will mean that from all these environments where these fees are collected, this money is collected in the national budget, these funds are likely to be based on some key, usually with a call for proposals [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The State has granted certain criteria, certain criteria and the key to meeting these criteria will likely be burdens, which means that it will take precedence over the funds to be collected in rural areas, in order to allocate most of these funds or even all of them, I would say, urban or developed environments. In short, if we want to keep the money in a location where it collects, where there is also an environmental problem, then it is necessary to allow these funds to be held in municipalities where these funds are collected or where fees are charged for these environmental problems. I think it makes sense for this amendment to be supported, probably even among the mayors, there should not be any particular opposition, because it is actually based on what is now in operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u305	A fellow cremator. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u306	Thank you very much, President. The concern of colleague Tank is justified, but it is necessary to read in conjunction, in combination, the amendment to Article 110 and the amendment to Article 111 of the four groups of Members, which thus define the whole matter in detail. This, however, is a national tax, which will be simplified, collected on municipal sub-accounts and used exclusively for these purposes on the basis of development programmes, which are, of course, set for four years in advance. Only where they do not have municipalities, and this is already the case today, such projects referred to in Article 149, are being merged and used again for the same projects but elsewhere. So, municipalities that have projects that have this in development programmes in the same way as before - and in the debate we have found that this is good - will also be able to use this money only for this purpose in the future, and it is also right. But both things need to be linked together and then we get this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u307	Comrade Tanko, will you give the floor to the Minister or would you like to do so? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! All that Mr Tanko has said I must say is unrealistic and would cause, in the event that this amendment to the 110th member of the Slovenian Democratic Party is adopted, only one major confusion. Why? Environmental taxes are not just taxes on waste water and environmental charges, which are mainly of interest to municipalities. Environmental taxes are a number of things, including carbon dioxide tax, which has already been collected at more than 7 billion tolars. This is not directly intended for some environmental programmes. And if you remember when we discussed the report on the state of the environment, you Slovenian Democrats taught me what a green tax reform would look like. At that time, you said: the key focus of the green tax reform is to tax the environmental burden and thus to work an empty tax space to relieve work - right, that is the right direction. What you are now proposing here is exactly the opposite of what you were explaining at the time and, of course, would cause a lot of confusion. How would we divide a tax into carbon dioxide, which is now being paid, for example, at each litre of petrol that anyone buys at a gas station, by municipalities, if they had a program of work to reduce the environmental burden? The amendment, which has been tabled by four coalition groups, very precisely defines and allows, as Mr Kremjar said, that the existing system, which you have all praised, with a tax on waste water and environmental burdens, to be carried forward. However, if this amendment of yours were accepted, then we would only really have problems and the thing would absolutely not be directed towards the system that you at least verbally want. So I propose that you support the amendment of the four coalition groups to Article 110 and by no means the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this and later to Article 186. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u309	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u310	Look, Mr. Secretary, I didn't say any unreal things. This is the first thing that is, and I would like to remind you again to watch out for what you are telling me, because you are always trying to degrade or criticize me in some way. The fact is, Mr Minister, that if we are to do anything in the field of the environment, all three amendments must be accepted. The first must be voted against, because the funds are being kept, the second must be adopted in order to make the basis for what you have written in Article 111. All of this has to be accepted if you want this thing to work. These are the three related amendments. The first is to refuse to keep the quotas in-not reduced height, but at a level such as environmental taxes to be collected. In the second part, there is an opportunity to do so, and in article 111, you have the opportunity to write the criteria for how you do it. These three things just need to be looked at in a kind of comprehensive way and also, in my opinion, in a way accepted as I have now said. It is said that the first amendment must be rejected, the second adopted and the third adopted, because these are three related matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u311	My friend Mamić, did you want a word? Did you raise one hand? My friend Sok. Someone raised their hand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u312	Thank you very much for your word. I would like to say that, on the Infrastructure Committee, we have already discussed extensively that what is now proposed with the first amendment to delete has been adopted in the second reading of this law. Nor does it make sense to me why the funds collected by environmental taxes should be fully devoted to the implementation of the environmental burden reduction works. This would, in fact, include an obligation in the law to actually use these funds for these purposes. Because, if not, if this is not the case in law, then of course, the peaceful souls can use the funds collected with environmental charging fees for other purposes. Of course, it bothers me very much how the minister rejects proposals that come from either the SDS party or New Slovenia, he constantly uses these same arguments, if you deceive, you are not telling the truth. I don't know if it would work, Minister Kopač, to somehow communicate with members of the opposition in a slightly more cultural way, but not always so arrogantly reject the initiatives and proposals coming from this side. I must say that from the opposition parties together, the SDS and Nova Slovenija, we have tabled a number of amendments to this law. In fact, I hope to say that this law on environmental protection was written as such literally on the Infrastructure Committee. There was no article on which either the ruling party or the opposition parties tabled an amendment, and the amendments were once more than those in this law. And with such a law, Mr Minister, you come to Parliament and claim that the law must be passed on the basis of directives of the European Union. The result cannot be different from adopting such a way of adopting a bad law that will have to be corrected. And this law on environmental protection, as it is, of course, is bad. We will not vote in favour of these amendments of the ruling coalition, and I say now that we will not support the law in such a form because it is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u313	If I understand correctly, we can move on to a decision. Please, everyone, if you take your seats, check the functioning of the voting devices so that there are no objections. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 110, tabled by the four groups of Members. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 72 in attendance, 49 in, 18 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] This amendment has been adopted. Now we have an amendment under order number two. We're voting. Problem with the device. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. This amendment did not receive the necessary support. 64 in attendance, 19 in and 41 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] Article 111 We are voting on the amendment tabled by the four groups of Members. We're voting. 69 present, 60 in, 5 in. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 186 SDS task force, Comrade Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u314	This Article concerns concessions awarded by the State. We propose the same solution as for mining, so to speak, concessions collected from this title are divided in a 50-50 ratio. 50 on the state level, 50 on the local level. I think that the matter is acceptable and is identically resolved, as solved in the Mining Act, and I also think that it is fair to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u315	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u316	Firstly, the payment of the concession is regulated by the Law on Economic Public Services, not by the Law on Environmental Protection, so that it does not systematically belong here. And a second time. No concessions are provided for this activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u317	We decide on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group on 186. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 22 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment was not accepted. Minister - Coherence?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u318	No, I'm sorry about the amendments that were voted on. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u319	Just a moment, Minister. Could it be peace in the hall, please? Minister, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. As a result of the amendments voted in the third reading, there has been some disagreement. The government has put in stock four harmonisation amendments, which have already been reproduced and will now be distributed to you on the bench, and I ask you to support them, of course, if possible, in the next item.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u321	Yeah, you don't have them on your hands. Okay, we'll get that on the bench now. I suggest we don't even interrupt this point. Then we have one more, then the decision of the procedural nature in the course of the meeting and we are done for today. These are the harmonisation amendments that are now coming on the bench. I agree with that, perhaps it would be useful - we can conclude this in accordance with the rules of procedure, that we stop this point and go to the next one, right? Then I'd ask everyone to pay attention. I think what colleague Tanko says is past the microphone - everyone has the right to ask for the text to be read. That's why I'm gonna break this point. We are moving on to the 11th item of the agenda - the coordination procedure in the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme. On 24 this month, the National Assembly held a hearing and a vote on the motion for that resolution. The amendment was adopted by Chapter 6. The government then warned the assembly that the resolution was unharmonised, submitted the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. And I ask whether the Government's harmonisation amendment to Chapter 6.4.3 can be decided? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u322	Well, in this case, we already have the first sentence on the table of what we have adopted in the previous law that all funds are not earmarked for certain purposes. In short, what we voted on in the previous vote on the resolution is getting us back into the old state. Instead of aligning the items in the table to 14 billion, the minister chose the option of harmonising to half the lower amount. In short, to correct what we voted for. I think that these environmental issues, which we have been talking about so much lately, in the law on environmental protection, in nature conservation, in the energy resolution, do not take these things seriously. As resources are not used to deal with environmental problems, these issues cannot be regulated and the indicators of environmental pollution, burdens, excessive energy consumption and so on, all these problems are only escalating, growing and not falling. And this harmonisation amendment, in view of what we have voted in the previous vote at this point, is not corrected. The Ministry should coordinate the allocation within the table on page 76. We have accepted the amount to 14 billion commulatively, the allocation by programme should be in line with the harmonisation amendment, but not that the amount should then be reduced. And I don't think there's any real emphasis on the things that we're defending, I'm going to say, 100 an hour that we have full mouth; when it comes to actual things to take up a matter, everything falls automatically. On the one hand, the right to the budget - this balances as it wishes - and to the Minister, on the other hand, what actually comes together is reduced to half and half and half for other purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u323	Comrade Kelemin, then Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr President, I personally assess that in this case this harmonisation amendment is an abuse of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and I would also ask that our professional services determine whether it is an abuse of the rules of procedure. In fact, if the National Assembly has adopted an amendment setting the amount of a certain amount, then the Ministry or Government, and in particular the Minister with its harmonisation amendment, shall reduce this amount by half to the extent that it is an abuse of the State Assembly's voting institute. This cannot be done in any case and I would ask the legislature to tell whether this is in accordance with the harmonisation amendment. That's the first thing we need to find out. Instead of correcting the table according to the amendment adopted, the amount has been corrected and reduced by half, this is unacceptable. I estimate it was an abuse of the rules of procedure, and please explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u325	Look, I've asked the secretary-general for an explanation, the practice has been one way or another with regard to rounding, of course I could cut this down with a vote, but I want to ask the next thing, the clock is coming midnight, and I know that if I'm well informed, there will also be a proposal to continue tomorrow due to the 10th point. Is it possible that we may now interrupt the discussion on all these points and continue tomorrow - so that we do not torture ourselves late at night. In fact, there will be a proposal at point 10, and here I would have plenty of time then, colleague Kelemina, to examine this proposal of yours, before we move on to a decision. Since the conditions for hearing are not met at point 10 and because we have not exhausted the agenda, I would suggest that tomorrow at 3 p.m. the National Assembly continue its work to address this issue first. I'm going to consult on this question that you, Comrade Kelemina, have asked. I'm going to make this proposal. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] as you will also get the floor for a brief explanation of the views of the groups of Members, then we will decide on this procedural proposal. We have to do the meeting. It's not over. In order for the Internal Policy Committee to meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the Grand Salon, the Finance Committee would meet at 212 p.m. at 3 p.m. and decide on these broken agenda items which remained for us in this meeting. I would now like to ask Members of the Group, if they may say so, Procedurally, please let us see what this is all about, Comrade Kelemin. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u326	Mr President, I would procedurally ask how I should deal with my committee, which I have convened at 2 p.m. Should I call it off or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u327	No, no! Look out, look out! There I heard an exclaim that just because the Commission would not take office, I would like to refer to everything - once tomorrow or Thursday, I must call on the National Assembly to continue with the decisions it has to make. There was not enough time to consult about the hour, and it would probably be different views. You can do it at 4:00, so you have plenty of time, or on Thursday at 10:00, because the options are different. Please, peace in the hall, I know there are a hundred different proposals, but we must continue. Would tomorrow afternoon be better than Thursday morning? They're working bodies, I know the College, please, you've raised your hand, please. [[....]] I will adjourn the session and call the leaders of the Group of Members here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u328	Mr President, I don't know if this is possible yet, but sometimes such situations could have been resolved in a way that would have moved the points to the next meeting. This means, of course, that we somehow do not bypass the fully-established programme, but it still seems to me that it is better to extend the programme of the next session than actually break this rhythm, which is quite dramatic. That is, of course, I will say, in your jurisdiction and competence of the college, but the solution is just as decent as to undermine the schedules of 90 people and others who are bound to them in tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u329	Before you'll be hard on me, for 3 minutes the leaders of the parliamentary groups in the center for 3 minutes I interrupt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u330	See, it is perfectly clear if the proposal to continue work at 16 tomorrow will not be adopted, will be automatically adopted or will then be put to the vote formally to move the items to the next meeting of the agenda. The majority, which will vote on one or the other proposal, is also, of course, responsible for ensuring coherence tomorrow, if we so decide. I will therefore put to the vote a procedural proposal to suspend today's session and proceed at 4 p.m. tomorrow, so that colleague Kelemin can carry out the work of the Commission. And at this stage, we will also do the items on the agenda that have remained on the agenda. Please sit down to decide on this procedural proposal. We're voting. Please. We'd continue at 4:00 tomorrow. If the proposal is not adopted, I will propose that the items be moved to the next meeting. Of the 65 present 36 for, 27 versus. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] We'll be back to work tomorrow at 4:00. Thank you very much until then. Committees: tomorrow at 9 p.m., 12 p.m., 14 p.m., colleague of Kelemin - commission, right? Please.
