ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day! On behalf of Members and Members, also a successful first school day for all our children and students! I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ivan Kebrič and Anton Partljič. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the following letter to the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ferry Horvath: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of additional observations from the debate on agenda item 1 of the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, requests the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to suspend the consideration of agenda item 1 until today, 1.9.2004 until 12.00 to prepare additional answers to the debate's findings." At the meeting with the President of the National Assembly, we have found that this is a procedural proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is undeniable that we can all find that in yesterday's debate, many questions and those that were not mentioned in the interpretation were raised, and it is also probably a reasonable request from representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because they want to answer all the questions raised in the Chamber. That is why I am putting this procedural proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to a vote – so that we can stop the first item until the ministers' replies are ready. We will continue to address the following point, that is 1.A point in the daily editor there is no reasonable reason not to continue working. Once the answers are ready, we will continue to address item 1 of the agenda. There is no explanation of vote or debate on procedural proposals, so we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 40 Members and Members voted against 13. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. So, we interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue when the government responds to those findings that were not contained in the interpretation. We are therefore moving on to the reading of the 1st A Agenda item - This is on the basis of the request for a breakdown of the previous legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor countries formerly in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia. Procedural proposal, Mr. Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. We understand that some questions for the government are very embarrassing and that it needs to be prepared for an answer. And we do not object to giving her time to try, however, to find some justification for her wrong or flawed choices in the past. However, we have expected that the debate will now continue as it has been predicted since the beginning. However, since you have immediately moved on to a whole new point, I propose, on behalf of the 30-minute recess group, that we prepare ourselves for the next point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Even though I feel that this would not be necessary, I think that, according to the decision taken, of course, a reasonable request is also on behalf of the applicants, so that we continue at 10.30 a.m. I'm adjourning the session. At 10.30 a.m., we continue to discuss the 1.A item on the agenda so that, of course, the applicants can join in accordance with the decision taken by the National Assembly. At 10.30 a.m., we will continue the treatment of the 1.A item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. Therefore, we are moving on to the consideration of the 1st A Agenda item - Defence of the requirement to list the previous legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries formerly in the Republic of Slovenia, which were held on 31.12. IN 1990 and 25.2.1992, a permanent residence was declared in Slovenia. The request was submitted to the assembly by a group of 31 Members, with first-signed Janez Janša. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates for the invitation to a previous legislative referendum. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The meeting of the National Assembly is held on the second day. We note that these meetings are not open for the Vice-President of the opposition, because the coalition has rejected him. And in our opinion, the leadership of this National Assembly is limited and only partially legitimate. The second thing I would like to say in the beginning is that the time for this topic has been unreasonablely limited, even with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly shows that the government coalition, which has convened four extraordinary meetings on the subject of deleted, no longer knows what it would have done with this topic, which it itself brought to the Slovenian political scene. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the Group of Members and Members of the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian National Party and with the signature of the Member of the Party of Youth Slovenia, have submitted an application for an invitation to a preliminary legislative referendum on the so-called Systemic Law deleted because we want the next mandate to ease the debate on this subject and to protect taxpayers from paying high unwarranted damages. And because the authorities have arrogantly rejected the opposition's proposed proposal to reject this so-called system law together and by adopting an already prepared and tabled constitutional law as quickly as possible, without further controversy and in a just manner and in a just manner, to resolve the issues of the so-called deleted. We have also tabled this request because the referendum can be declared at the same time as the national elections on 3 October 2004, which, in the event that the government coalition does not delay, remains a real date and this sky has caused additional voting costs. In the course of this debate, we are once again proposing to the authorities that they reconsider rejecting our offer, that they decide that at this or future meeting in September, we together reject the inadequate system law in the procedure and that we adopt a constitutional law that will be the only solution whenever it is adopted for this topic. In this case, we are prepared to withdraw or withdraw our signatures. Let me say that this topic has been reintroduced by Minister of the Interior, Mr Bohinc, from the United List, which has apparently been deleted on the flag. First of all, its former President, Mr Ribičič, has coerced this last decision of the Constitutional Court into a decision that has no case in the rule of law. And then the Minister of the United States first claimed that a law was needed to regulate this issue, ordered a study where 13 legal experts had confirmed the same. When people clearly rejected such a rescue proposal, he began to issue decisions without law and to continue to issue them illegally. In doing so, the United List and the government parties that support this burden the whole of Slovenia, while at the same time citing themselves to others. The United List and the Liberal Democracy cannot simply plead the Constitutional Court’s decision, given the relationship between the two parties and the other decisions of the Constitutional Court. If government parties respected the Constitutional Court, then today the decision on the Municipality of Koper would not have been put in the drawer for many years, there is no rush to do so. If the authorities respected the Constitutional Court, then it would not take seven years for the tax system to be amended. If they respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then they would not listen to the statements we heard from the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest government party, that there is no god to force him to vote in favour of a decision of the Constitutional Court. So, the fact is that there has been a legally complicated issue here, which can be resolved primarily by constitutional law. The condition that this constitutional law enters into procedure is that an inadequate so-called system law is withdrawn. This is what our initiative is about. Therefore, there is no need for a referendum if there is some sense in government; if there is no reason to do so, then there is no other than direct decision-making of people that can be carried out at the same time as the day of the vote for the National Assembly, which does not constitute additional costs. And here it is on the government coalition to decide on the solution that it considers to be better for it and also for citizens and citizens of this country. Since time is unreasonablely limited, I will proceed with the introduction after the time has come to present the views of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Thank you very much. With deep respect, Mr Janša, but perhaps also because I am a woman, there are many things that simply do not. My presence here is not illegal. 68 Members and Members gave me a mandate to chair the National Assembly at the beginning of the mandate. And what we are doing in this way is not a violation of the rules of procedure. I think that we are trying, within the framework of the business regulations, to hold meetings, and I am also assessing that I am conducting them properly. Therefore, I really ask that you continue to abstain from these allegations, which do not hold back, or is it my duty to protest because they are not real. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I ask the Committee member, Mr Leopold Kremjar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you very much. At its 58th urgent meeting, on 31.08.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, who had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.02.1992. A group of Members and Members made a request. On behalf of the initiators, she was further explained by a member of the Rudolf Petan Committee. In its explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service fully summed up the written opinion of this service of 31.08.2004. In particular, it stated that the legislative and legal service had reviewed the application submitted pursuant to Article 185(2) and had examined whether it met all the conditions laid down by law, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In examining the compatibility of this requirement with the law, the four decisions already issued by the Constitutional Court have been taken into account as the requirement relates to a proposal for a law on which four referendum initiatives have been tabled so far. In this case, too, it is estimated that the anti-constitutional situation is prolonged by the submission of the request, since the National Assembly has not yet implemented the decision of the Constitutional Court of April 2003. It was also necessary to assess these requirements from the point of view of whether there are also elements of the abuse of the constitutional right to referenda, which, in both cases so far, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, has also attached to such assessments, in view of the repetition of the content and arguments which the Constitutional Court has already ruled that they are unconstitutional. On the basis of all the above, the legislative and legal service assesses that, in the light of the proposed referendum requirement, it would not be possible to call for a referendum under Articles 15 and 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Government fully agrees with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the debate, the Member stressed his support for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and suggested that the Committee should adopt a decision proposing to the National Assembly not to call a preliminary legislative referendum on the referendum issue contained in that referendum initiative. Members of the opposition did not support such a proposal. After the discussion, the Internal Policy Committee, pursuant to Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted the following decision with 13 votes in favour and five against. Here I must warn you that there has been a small error in writing at the date and I will read it as it should have been written, unfortunately it was miswritten. Following the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that it requires a call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which on 23.12.1990 and 25.02.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia registered a permanent residence lodged with the President of the National Assembly - and here this correction of 26.8.2004, the wrong date is thus written on 26.8.2004, for the first time, containing a question of compensation, which the Constitutional Court has decided on several occasions. Secondly, there is a discrepancy between the question and the explanation, as the content of the explanation leads to a situation where even in the light of all the arguments presented to the public, the electorate and the voters in the referendum could not know exactly what they are deciding. However, in the event that the legislative solutions in question were not confirmed at the referendum, the National Assembly would not have had detailed instructions as to what arrangements to adopt, in accordance with the will expressed in the referendum, that is why the content of the question is inconsistent with the second and third indents of Article 18 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thirdly, it means unwarranted and deliberate delaying the adoption of a bill by repeating similar issues, making the Institute of the Referendum misused for non-constitutional purposes. The National Assembly will therefore not call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the referendum issue referred to in that referendum requirement. That's the board's will.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I invite the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present the opening opinion. Minister of the Interior Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Decisions shall be issued in accordance with the legal procedure and shall have the legal basis in point 8 of the Constitutional Court’s decision. I repeat this and take advantage of the opportunity to repeat myself. With regard to the decision before you today, the government fully agrees with the position of Parliament's legislative service and also with the position of the Committee. On several occasions, a decision has already been taken on these issues, in this National Assembly and also in the Constitutional Court, and we therefore attach ourselves to the view that it is an abuse of constitutional right to referendum and that it is a matter of prolonging the anti-constitutional situation. With regard to the settlement of the issue of compensations - those who have not sufficiently delved into this issue, I suggest that you take a close look at Article 19c, which discusses the compensation of damages - the purpose of the system law in this part is to limit compensation liability. No exclusion, because this is not possible under Article 15 of the Constitution. However, the restriction on determining the elements of illegality in the conduct of the legal authority, which must be demonstrated, is that the injured person has taken advantage of all legal possibilities to regulate his status or that he meets all the legal conditions prescribed by law. Otherwise, decisions are issued exclusively to people who have already obtained a permanent residence permit and who actually live in Slovenia. This is particularly true, the purpose of the system law in this part is to limit compensation liability, irrespective of the fact that there are virtually no compensation claims. I have already given statistics on this, but I suggest that you also hear about this from a colleague of the Minister of Justice who has collected information on this. We support the Internal Policy Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the Minister's position, I apologize. [[....]] Here, on behalf of the government, is the opinion of the Minister of Justice. Here you go. Madam Minister, you can use your time as a payphone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u11	On 27 August this year, the Slovenian National Party asked the Ministry of Justice how many damages have been filed in the area of deleted. This is the issue that you are dealing with today. Although the Ministry could not inquire about the number through the courts [[This is 44 District Courts and 11 District Courts]] . However, since we have always asked them about the actions in which the State is acting as the defendant, we have asked them, and the situation is as follows: Before the decision of the Constitutional Court was issued, two claims have been filed for damages, because the public authorities have long resolved the application for recognition of nationality. However, following the decision of the Constitutional Court, two lawsuits were also brought before a court in Maribor and before a court in Cyprus, one in 20 million, one in 16 million. However, the defence has a role to play in the hearing, which does not have all the elements of the action and it is still being assessed how it can be qualified. So far, this is the information that the Attorney General is telling us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u12	Thank you very much. So we heard the government's opinion. Presentations of the positions of the groups are now under way. First of all, Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Your Honors are here! The story of self-removed persons in the National Assembly has been going on ever since last March, when the Constitutional Court transmitted to the general public and to us the decision by which, at least in the National Party, we assess, the Republic of Slovenia was not satisfied and that it is to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. At this time, since March last year, the government of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly intervened in the story of self-exposure, with, in my opinion, chaotic statements, both by Bohinc, that two laws should be adopted to resolve this – it later proved, of course, that this is not true. He appealed to Prime Minister Tone Rop, who said that constitutional law was urgently needed at the meetings, and he changed his mind later. And the government has repeatedly so chaoticly intervened in the matter. We have also dealt with the law and the subject matter several times in the framework of the National Assembly. We have discussed the laws themselves, for the first time, for the third time, for the referendum initiatives, after all, some constitutional laws have been introduced and so on. As regards self-removal matter, the judicial branch of authorities, with instructions, with initiatives or decisions, as well as groups of voters who requested the legislative and executive branch to resolve the matter, the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian National Party and some other opposition Members have shown you the way many times. But you never wanted to take a path that would be proud of the Republic of Slovenia. The story involved both the professional and the layman's public. Most of the instructions and recommendations went in the direction that this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should find a solution that would not devalue periods of self-reliance and that would not devalue the people who fought for our independence, and a way that would not reward those who speculated with their citizenship, or even join the aggressor in attacking our country. In particular because of this, i.e. the widespread involvement in the matter, and in particular because of the long-term nature of the fact that the government has long indicated that it is not able to resolve the matter within a reasonable period of time, we estimate in the National Party that it would be reasonable and wise and particularly necessary to resolve this matter in this mandate, which it has cooperated with all involved. Do not leave the responsibility to the next term. We have previously heard that the question is unclear that the Slovenian executive branch of power, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that Slovenian voters are so stupid that they will not understand the question. How, then, can you expect new Members to be able to resolve this matter for the first time, the second time, or perhaps through newspapers? Well, mostly because of that. Most importantly, because of the Republic of Slovenia, because of citizens and citizens, let us resolve this matter this month. We have all the legal bases for an appropriate solution in the procedure, but unfortunately this is not in the will and favour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is more than obvious that the government with Minister Bohince and Prime Minister Rob is stalling with a final solution. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the work of Mr Bohinc is, that is, the issue of decisions which are, of course, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the people who attacked or cooperated with the aggressor, the people who have never believed in our country, the Republic of Slovenia, and the people who speculated with the status of citizenship that it is, of course, an unreality, and above all, an unreality of doing that goes to the financial and moral harm of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, as much as the Minister spoke before me, there are, of course, many more claims for compensation lodged with our country. The Minister correctly stated and honestly concluded that she did not have data from 44 district and 11 district courts. Therefore, the information provided by it is insufficient, given that most of the judicial institutions did not give out one more piece of information. So, we found out, on average, indemnity claims, or lawsuits against the state, over 10 million on a case-by-case basis. Does that seem acceptable to you? With 10 million we will reward an individual who either cooperated with the aggressor or did not believe or deliberately refused to regulate his status. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports these people. We have offered you solutions in the Slovenian National Party several times, after all in the past 30 days. So we offered you a solution that's in your hand. But as of yesterday, when the agenda was discussed, you rejected this solution. According to our assessment, the National Assembly should consider a system law which, between the second and third readings, at which the Constitutional Court gave its opinion that it is unconstitutional at six points, and the National Assembly should, of course, reject such a law in all normal principles and at the same time adopt a law that has also been tabled in the Slovenian National Party with some other Members and is called the Constitutional Law. The constitutional law based on good starting points, according to our assessment of the five high-quality starting points that magnify and stress that we are Slovenians living in the Republic of Slovenia - but of course for you a story that would further evaluate or re-evaluate and restore the brilliance of our country, is not acceptable and that is why today is another way forward. As far as I'm concerned, a little worse than the one I just said and you had the chance to decide yesterday, but you rejected it, that's a referendum initiative. However, we will support it in the Slovenian National Party, despite the fact that we are aware that the referendum is not a kind form, because there have been too many in the last year. But this multitude of referendums or referendum initiatives is, of course, a result of the ignorance of government policy and government Members. We should be aware that a referendum on this subject, similar to that of Slovenian citizens, has been carried out and that the vast majority of Slovenian citizens have made it clear that they do not agree with the way in which the said matter is resolved, either in the manner proposed by Mr Bohinc or as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know about the outcome of the future referendum, but you don't care about it, and of course we can understand Mr Bohinc's reaction, of course we just don't understand, we don't support it. To see that during the period of independence with his friends he opposed the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, his doing, according to our assessment, is not contrary to what he is doing then. But so much more is the shameful work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it supports in these individual aspirations. We cannot agree on this in the National Party, we have never, and we will not, nor in this mandate, which we hope to resolve matter until the end, and not in the coming mandate. On the other hand, at least on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, I call on you from this speaker and I promise you that Members of the National Party will withdraw the signatures for the referendum, as long as we are assured today that we will reject the system law in this mandate and that a constitutional law will be passed in this mandate, which is already in the procedure pending that the Members of the ruling majority will be drawn up and you will raise your hands. In this case, at the moment in the National Party, we withdraw the signature against the referendum. Despite the fact that one of the speakers told me before me that this referendum will not burden Slovenian citizens financially in such a form. This is particularly important with the reply just given by Minister Cerarjev that on average the amount of the claim to our country is between 10 million and 16 million Slovenian tolars. This is the information we just received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - what more would we want? They have the legal material invested in the National Assembly. You all know that in the second reading, you have adopted a system law on deleted persons in such a way that it is impossible to amend them in the third reading. And it is impossible to include the components given to us by the Constitutional Court. So, the law must be rejected in the third reading. A constitutional law shall be opened by signatures and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the procedure of the national assembly, but this shall also be unacceptable. And if I started yesterday saying that in our country after the 1960s some restrictive forces succeeded in establishing some shadow over the NOB fighters during the Second World War, Mr Bohinc and, of course, the United List managed to devalue the independence of the Republic of Slovenia within ten years, managed to reward those who defended Slovenia and made it their own, and in ten years, Mr Bohinc was able to devalue the good part of the concept of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I am not proud of government policy, but I can assure you that the national party will always, as it has been, defend the ideas of Slovenia. We have only one Slovenia, and it is so important that, at this moment, when we are involved in those European integrations that are beginning our being, unfortunately, to begin, it was very important that we realize that we are Slovenians, that we have our own history and that we must not give up on Mr Bohinc's individual aspirations for destroying all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in this term, the National Assembly has not been able to resolve one of the issues that we have inherited in this National Assembly since the time of the rule of Demos, which covered up such a situation. Unfortunately, I am speaking because such a solution would be worthy of less than 0.8% of people living in Slovenia, because it would be acceptable for European human rights enforcement practice, because we have received clear warnings from all the institutions in Europe that deal with this issue and because this would be appropriate to the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I also understand from today's debate that such a reasonable agreement has unfortunately not been possible. If a reasonable agreement tries to enforce lies with explicit falsehoods, then it is difficult to reach an agreement. And it is certainly a lie that the United List is trying in any way to detract from self-sustainment, since it has participated and voted unanimously in all decisions taken for independence. In addition, many of its members were active participants in armed resistance to aggression against Slovenia at the time. Therefore, anyone who was nowhere at the time cannot launch such lies. Secondly, it is not possible to reach an agreement on the consequences of a law that is not real. Nor will he give any privileges to anyone, nor will they allow enormous compensation, nor will it be taken into account that they do not have the right to be blotted out by returning a permanent residence, are those individual who have not been here all the time, who have not tried to exercise their rights or who have been organised against the interests of the Slovenian State, even at the time of independence. These are all the substantive solutions that we all take. And because there was no basis for an honest conversation, there was also the view in the United List of Social Democrats that, unfortunately, it is better to remain optimistic and not expect that – now I will use the term used by the usual opposition – one or the other solution is forced, conscious that one or the other solution cannot be definitively adopted in this mandate. Therefore, it is better to remain optimistic and expect that all of us — and I do not accuse anyone — will be able to come to terms with our minds after the new elections and that we will be ready to sit down peacefully and design a solution that will be enforceable, because of us, all the time with the constitutional law, including the necessary two-thirds majority, but not with the forced constitutional law, as it is not possible to make a decision by means of forced decision to simplify, in the third reading of this law, or by deciding on a referendum on a matter that would have already been decided or decided on human rights, which we cannot decide on. I would therefore like to point out that the view of the United List of Social Democrats that it is most reasonable to take a decision that is proposed that this decision is consistent with everything, which has already had to be decided four times on the same subject by the Constitutional Court – namely, the fifth, similar to or approximately the same requirement, once in the form of an initiative, once directly in the form of a request. There is no doubt that it is the wish of the applicants that the law in the proposed content is not adopted, and this has been said several times. There is no doubt that it is the proposaler's desire to find solutions that will be contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, as they have also said on several occasions, and the Constitutional Court has already ruled. There is no doubt that it is a desire to delay the final decision again, because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we would also like to speak about the possible referendum on 3 October, which is practically due to an inappropriate proposal that is not concluded, which is contrary to the proposal and the explanation and so on, which we have all been able to read, that I do not speak, cannot be completed by the end of the mandate. Because even if the referendum were adopted, then, we all know, within a year the duty of the National Assembly to settle. Then, in any case, there is still a possible referendum on the law itself, constitutional judgment and the like. And don't have citizens and citizens as fools and say that you can do it in this term because it's stupidity and a lie. Please! We have different interests and desires, right to say them honestly, just not to say that you want to solve the problem. This problem, unfortunately, when you asked for it, does not mean that there must be five extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly in relation to the referendums – we did not require them, you have submitted five initiatives and requests. Don't be a fool, it's extreme cynicism and a lie, Mr. Janša! We had to decide on this at an extraordinary meeting, as the proposal was made. Would you like us not to put this to an extraordinary session and to be able to invoke the violation of the Constitution's rules of procedure again and not know what right? This is a lie, and on this basis qualified and correct decision cannot be made. It is therefore right, in our view, that the decision on the referendum and the decision on the substantive question should be postponed, in the hope that we can start the debate, we can, on the constitutional law, but we must start it and find out where the differences in views are. These differences are that one believes that a solution must be found that respects all the acquisitions of Slovenia, which will not burden taxpayers, but which will be consistent with the legal system and human rights. Others feel that the constitutional law is necessary for us to shave - how much? - six, seven, eight decisions by the Constitutional Court and you don't want a state of law. We need to start the discussion and find reasonable solutions. As long as these are not available, it is only right that we do not prejudge this by making decisions at the referendum. And it is also right to say realistically that it is not possible to expect the implementation of the requirements required by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members. Minister and Minister! The Slovenian People's Party insists on the belief that we will be able to deal with the issue, in an appropriate and only definitive manner, with the adoption of an appropriate constitutional law, which, of course, will also be based on the already clearly expressed will of the electorate and electorate at the referendum on 4 April this year. Indeed, in this law, it is also necessary to adequately address the problem of complementary decisions that the Minister has issued so far without a legal basis and, of course, against the decision of the electorate and the electorate in the referendum. The legal consequences and effects of such decisions must also be established in the law. We stress the need to address each case individually, to identify the actual situation. However, recognition of a back-up status is possible only for certain reasons. The Slovenian People's Party insists on not being able to obtain a permanent residence permit for those who acted against the independence and values acquired by the independence of Slovenia. It is unacceptable that those who shot at our soldiers would now receive any compensation from our citizens from the country, even status. We therefore support the possibility of the system law withdrawing from the procedure and, of course, the referendum will not be necessary. However, at the same time, it is of course unacceptable for the legislative and legal service and also for the coalition to, of course, prolong the unconstitutional situation through the re-referendum initiatives. The unconstitutional situation at this time is prolonging the coalition itself because it does not want to resolve this issue in this very sensitive pre-election period. Why? Because, of course, this is one of the fundamental issues which, of course, requires the special sensitivity of citizens and citizens, and of course, the coalition at this time does not want to make clear what their final decision will be if, of course, we have the confidence of the electorate and the electorate. I hope not. Because otherwise, of course, decisions will be known. It will not respect the will of people who have already been clearly expressed and, of course, do not respect one of the fundamental interests of Slovenia and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of this Republic, which was, of course, agreed upon in the context of the independence of our country. Here I believe that the more crucial question is why there is no fundamental agreement, because of course the concept of resolving the so-called deleted issue needs to be changed. We know that all three branches have committed this procedure, from the Constitutional Court, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also from this National Assembly. However, only on the basis of the people's will, which was clearly expressed, and with the necessary constitutional law, which would naturally follow this expressed will in the referendum, will this matter be easily resolved. Otherwise, I am sure that politics in our country will always revolve in a vicious circle, which, of course, will not be proud of our country. And, of course, now specifically on the proposed referendum initiative. Of course, it is unacceptable that it is here, such as the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee, that this referendum issue be rejected, without, of course, the previous option referred to in Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which states that, of course, the initiators are invited to complete their referendum question or, of course, to change it. Once again, I will quote Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which states: "If the Council of State considers that the request for a referendum does not clearly express the question which should be the subject of the referendum, or if the request is not substantiated, it calls on the representative of the proposer or the initiator of the request to clearly define the question, or to complete the request with an explanation." The decision of the Constitutional Court, second paragraph, Official Gazette, number 13-662/95 states, of course: "If the representative of the applicant or the initiator of the request insists on the question referred to in the preceding paragraph or if he does not complete the request with an explanation, the national assembly may decide to sign the referendum." However, in this particular case, the National Assembly did not, of course, call on the initiators to amend or supplement the referendum question. This has already been exposed to at least two such proposals. It is said to be a conscious violation of the procedure, which is clearly referred to in Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, please, first of all, do your business as is necessary, as the law requires, but then of course afford to take such a decision. Because you are in strict violation of the law on referendum and human initiative. Of course, now for the end. I am convinced that it is in the interest, and so does the Slovenian People's Party's Group from the outset, that it is in the interest of voters and voters, that each political party and every candidate clearly declares their position at this time, before the voters and voters, how they want to resolve the issue of the deleted, and it can be a period of time, of course, for policy to shrink and, of course, adopt the relevant constitutional law. This way, of course, there will be no need for a referendum. Otherwise, we think it is most appropriate that, together with the elections to the National Assembly, the system law should also be assessed for the electorate and the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented by Mr Dorijan Marsič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! At the LDS, we are particularly wondering why one month before the elections we have to deal again with the problem of the deleted. The answer is in the palm of your hand. It is more than obvious after yesterday's debate that in SDS and Nova Slovenija they have come to the realization that they will not achieve the desired effect with the input of interpolation, that the government has prepared good answers and rejected the obvious arguments. The government therefore has something to say about its work in the previous term. Therefore, since there are no arguments, the opposition decided on a new referendum initiative, which it is known that if the referendum took place, the decision should focus on the next term of the National Assembly, and because people do not like referendums, they are tired of them, they obviously want to participate as little as possible in the next national elections. This time the referendum requirement is already the fifth referendum initiative that has been tabled on the System Act on deleted for the past six months. Last, the fourth referendum initiative was tabled by SDS Executive Committee member Branko Grims on 21 May, referring to the issue of compensation of deleted persons and the revision of decisions on permanent residence. The National Assembly rejected the request, but Grims appealed to the Constitutional Court, which subsequently confirmed the decision of the National Assembly on 8 July. Three more referendum initiatives were put into the National Assembly before the initiative, namely two Slovenian coalition initiatives and one group of voters and voters signed by Sandro Letica, a member of the SDS minor. At that time, we listened for months and months to lies and deceptions against the public, especially regarding damages, and we also listened to unacceptable discredits of the Constitutional Court. The opposition obviously again wants to make pre-election points on the subject of deleted, shared by political parties and people in Slovenia. The proposed requirement is not a way to solve the problems that have been deleted, but it is only to politicise this issue in an unacceptable way. In the LDS, we have made every effort, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, to regulate the situation and rights of the deleted, while the applicants have been working all this time to prevent the functioning of the National Assembly and the standing invitation to referenda from resolving this issue. The applicants do not want to solve the problem, but they simply want to reintroduce it. On the basis of the formal questions, we are confused about the content. Once again, it is worth noting that this is a law that we are adopting with the aim of eliminating the anti-constitutional situation that prevails in our country in this area. This law is not a product of the arrogance of government parties, but is its content, a compromise, and this law actually answers all the questions that the same voters and voters are convinced that we do not want to solve them properly, even to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are fully responsible for our efforts to comply with the Constitution and the laws in force in this country. Above all, we want the legislative function entrusted to us by the electorate and the electorate to act responsibly this time when perhaps someone does not like it. And, of course, we also want to defend the National Assembly as an institution that is being used over and over again for purposes that are not in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. In this case, it is another of the many requirements for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992, or on the so-called System Law on deleted persons. As far as compensation is concerned, both the government and the professional public are of the uniform opinion that any claims for compensation for the deletion or obsolete or are inconclusive from the point of view of the causal link between the deletion and the claimed damage. However, due to excessive views on this issue, the law provides for a compensation regime in particular in client coordination. The specific arrangements for the general rules of bond law concern in particular the additional provisions of liability for the deleted. In addition to the general rules of bond law, the law considers that the presumption of liability is not met even if any injured person fails to comply with the statutory conditions for the recognition of permanent residence of 25.2.1992 or in accordance with the general rules on the compulsory conduct of the injured person, unless he has made use of all legal options in accordance with the then applicable law on foreigners and on the regulation of the status of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The assumptions for compensation liability are also not met if the damage is not due to the unlawful conduct of the administrative authority, which means that the illegality of the functioning of the administrative authority must be demonstrated in particular. The law provides for general limitation periods, provides that the right to claim compensation from the State is obsolete within the limitation periods laid down by the rules governing bond relations. The implementation of the law has no impact on the progress of those deadlines. The law has another special provision, which is considered to be "lex specialis" in relation to the regime of non-profit damage under the bond code. It provides that, in any case of damage, non-proprietary damage shall not be recognised. The issue of compensation is linked to the actions and conduct of individuals, and the law also stipulates that non-profit damage in money is not recognised. It is clear from the above that this requirement, or the referendum issue that we are discussing today, has the following characteristics, which are identified not only by the legal and legislative services, but also by most of the members and members of the Internal Policy Committee. Firstly, the referendum question contains matters of compensation which have already been decided by the Constitutional Court on a number of occasions. Secondly, there is a discrepancy between the question and the explanation, as the content of the explanation is a matter of a situation where even in the light of all the arguments put forward so far in public, voters and voters in the referendum could not know exactly what they are deciding. However, if the relevant legislative solutions were not confirmed at the referendum, the National Assembly would not have detailed instructions as to what arrangements to accept that it would be preferable to be expressed in the referendum. The content of the question is therefore inconsistent with the second and third indents of Article 18 of the ZRLI. Thirdly, it means unwarranted and deliberate delaying the adoption of a bill by repeating similar issues, making the Institute of the Referendum misused for non-constitutional purposes. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, we expect that the National Assembly will carefully weigh this statement and decide that the referendum will not be signed in this case, as the question is unclear and the Institute of the Referendum used by the same applicants. This is how we assessed because we feel disabled in our legislative function, and also in favour of people who are going to the referendum, we are obliged to examine each referendum issue and to consider whether the question is clear whether it is justified whether it may not be in conflict with the Constitution and, in this case, whether we are not in our legislative function because the same applicants are putting the same initiatives in place, disabled. This is our duty, which we will discharge in a responsible manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Dear colleagues and colleagues! What is before us today as a proposal for a decision is simply a constitutional blow. We did not expect anything like this to happen in the middle and even less at the end of the term, for the National Assembly here wants to vote on what is stated in the Constitution, which was adopted by a two-thirds majority. The Constitution states in its 90th Article very clearly and unequivocally, and it cannot change any opinion of the legislative and legal service, the following: "The National Assembly may sign a referendum on its own initiative, but it must call it if at least one third of the Members, the State Council or 40,000 voters so require." It must be described, however, by the Constitution, and you would now, by a simple majority, reject what the Constitution says, which was adopted by a two-thirds majority. Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative to which you refer allows only two options for the National Assembly, which are intended to protect the correctness of the procedure. The first option is for the National Assembly, if it considers that the request is not constitutional, to send this request to the Constitutional Court for review. The second option is that if the Council of State considers that the request is not clear, it requires the applicants to complete the request. Only these two legal options are in law. But the Constitution says that the National Assembly must call a referendum. Here you propose a decision to be taken by a simple majority to sign the referendum. It's a constitutional blow. This is something that most people in no parliament can afford - by a simple majority to vote on the constitution. I suggest you take your breath and reconsider what you're doing. If this becomes a legal practice, if you vote today, this can happen again at any time. Perhaps even when you make a request. Life will not end with this conclusion. Consider what you are doing with such a vote and such a decision for legal practice and for the quality of the legal order in Slovenia in the future. After all, life will not end on October 3rd with elections that you are obviously so afraid of and are now proposing unconstitutional conclusions. As regards the eligibility of this requirement, which is solely linked to the provision of compensation in this so-called system law, I must say that we do not believe in these allegations, which have recently been made by government parties, if there is no compensation. In an official position presented on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group at the 30th meeting of the National Assembly before the bad year, the largest government party presented the following position on compensation: "The law before us," they said in the LDS, "we must accept. Human rights and freedoms of so-called eraseds, which we must protect, have no price. In our country, we will not defend messages that arouse fear in the public, which promote contemporary forms of intolerance." This was the position of the Liberal Democracy Group on compensations erased. Their rights don't have a price. The position of this same party when we proposed compensation for widows and children fell into the war for Slovenia was as follows. It was presented by the then Minister Kopač, who was a member of the LDS, the current Minister of Kopač. He says: "The amounts you are proposing are, in my opinion, beyond reasonable deadlines in these matters. Any such legal right shall entail a wave of other requirements, which shall then be difficult to resist." Liberal democracy has drastically reduced the damages to its members in the war for Slovenia. Drastic. However, when we examined the deleted law, it was the official position of the Liberal Democracy that the rights and freedoms that had been erased had no price. Today, due to the proximity of the elections, they say there will be no compensation, at the same time the government says it agrees with the opinion of the legislative and legal commission, which states that compensation cannot be excluded. According to data published publicly on 1 April this year, more than one billion claims were submitted. For over a billion claims! In this same Chamber, the legal representative of the deleted, former Constitutional Judge Matevž Krivic, stated on 12 January this year: "It is clear that the state of compensation for the damage that has been accumulated for 12 years cannot be paid from one annual budget. It will take more budgets to cover this." Former Constitutional Judge, legal representative of the deleted. The president of the so-called deleted society - those 200 who normally protested, apparently no longer in Slovenia, went back to Banjo Luka and Serbia, might come back for any protest or decisions issued by Mr Bohinc - but Alexander Todorov, president of the so-called deleted society, who has settled status in Slovenia, said in the first half of this year at POP TV: "I did not want Slovenian citizenship because Slovenia is an uncivilised country. I expect Slovenia to pay me compensation for deleting me." And you say here that there are no claims that there will be no damages, but at the same time six months ago you said that their rights do not have a price. However, when it came to compensations to relatives who had fallen into the war for Slovenia, you severely restricted them and had a bloody price. The fact is that we have proposed some reasonable way to solve this problem. From the very beginning it is clear that this situation will not be resolved by the law you have proposed; if you believed it, you would probably accept it. To say that we are prolonging the unconstitutional state - cynicism without chance, the government coalition has a majority in this House, the law has been waiting for a third reading for six months and you have not accepted it. From this point of view, you are prolonging the unconstitutional situation, you are delaying this procedure, we wanted to speed it up here, but we know that with the law proposed, this cannot be definitively resolved. If you insist that there is no compensation, if you are really in favour of separating yourself from unjustifiable cases, then here is an offer that is very generous. We have proposed a constitutional law that allows for the separation of beneficiaries from unjustifiable cases, which excludes intangible compensation, which limits compensation in potentially justified cases where it is a material compensation which, in the opinion of the legislative and legal commission, cannot be excluded, although you say it will not - on the other hand, for the electorate. The Constitutional Law also allows for the revision of illegal decisions issued by the Ministry of the Interior. And here we are about a thing that, of course, forces additionally, to solve the problem as soon as possible. For the minister boasted after he had told us that we had not put the deleted into interpolation, that he had issued 4,000 illegal decisions. We have received official information on this at the Ministry of the Interior, from which it follows that the Minister is considered to be served those decisions which no one takes to the post office. The addressee gets a notice because he's not at home because he's not there - and he's probably gone for ten years, some - then leave it at his post office and if he doesn't take this notice in fifteen days, it's considered, Mr Bohinc, that the decision is served. They have nearly 500 such decisions. The returns came back, the address book didn't accept the shipment, but he thinks it's hot. Decisions are sent to the addresses of the people no longer in 1990, to those who come after this decision then from Banja Luka, and from Serbia, they go back and will come back to Slovenia after the elections if the same power coalition continues to be in power and will then submit high claims for compensation. And then we will hear again the position of the biggest government party six months ago that their rights do not have a price. And now they've turned the board a little bit, given that the election is and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and given that 95% of the voters and voters in the referendum, which had a higher participation than the European elections, refused such a solution. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy not to sign a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other countries the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia who had a permanent residence registered in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. In the Group of Members, we agree with the opinion presented by the Legislative and Legal Commission, in which it assesses that the submission of a request for a preliminary legislative referendum constitutes a continuation of the anti-constitutional situation. There is no way we can agree to call for a referendum on a case for which the Constitutional Court has previously ruled several times and decided that it is unconstitutional. The creation of anti-constitutional situations, as referred to in the call for a preliminary legislative referendum, does not, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, constitute a means of electoral campaigning. It is time for us to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions on the problem and to end the constant abuse of the problem on the ground. We are convinced that for the rule of law it is not permissible to unduly and intentionally delay the adoption of the bill by repeating similar issues. It would be time for the political game to stop the policy of abuse of constitutional institutions or their compliance with the needs of daily policy. As already mentioned, for those reasons, the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group will support the Internal Policy Committee's decision not to sign a previous legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Thank you very much. And that's the last position. This is the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First, it must be said that the ruling coalition, as well as the government or the ministry, has recently systematically violated laws, constitutions and rules of procedure. The President-in-charge has already called and set time limits for this item of the agenda has been inconsistent with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly states that the time for discussion cannot be less than 20 minutes. Otherwise, we should allow each Member five minutes. No matter what you've done, we're going to say what's necessary in this short time, because a lot of things have already been said. In this case, Article 90 of the Constitution shall also be infringed in the event of a decision on a proposal for a decision. First, it is an unconstitutional question or an unconstitutional decision. The referendum question concerns the law and, if it concerns the law and it is only a matter of whether it settles as proposed, then the issue cannot be unconstitutional. It can't be, can it? Otherwise, the rule of law is unconstitutional. Next, if you claim that it is unclear, then this law that you have prepared for the second reading or third reading is unclear, and people do not understand it. So, Mr. Minister and representatives of the coalition, you also insist that it is unclear. But you are aware that it is clear, just as citizens are clearly aware of the consequences of this – based on discussions, applications submitted and more. In the New Slovenia Group, we wanted to resolve this issue, so we also signed initiatives that constructively address this problem and, of course, through the Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia, which also includes a selective approach to allow those persons who, in any event, have a solution to the issue or problem. That is why there was also an initiative of constitutional law, which the government had been supporting for some time, and then rejected, because the government acted confusedly. First of all, it offered legal forms of resolution of this issue, in the meantime also the possibility of constitutional law and finally the decision without law. Understand who can! The government's completely confused. Now in the third reading, she has her own law, in which she introduced the provisions of that law, which was the subject of a referendum initiative and was rejected by citizens in 95%. The trick is to get the text, the legal substance of the law that was the subject of the referendum question, into the new law. Therefore, the justification for the referendum is entirely in place. However, the justification for this is completely pointless, but it is necessary for the unconstitutional conduct of the ruling coalition and, of course, for the government. We could have adopted this law. You've had six months, Mr. Potch. You have the necessary majority to do so. Politics is also that you withdraw from solving this issue. If you claim that this needs to be settled immediately, then this law could be passed, we have been voted out because you have a small-day two-thirds majority. That's right. This is also a politicization that you postponed the decision on the most vital issue concerning the Slovenians. Yeah, that's right. See, this question, of course, also refers to an extremely important dilemma on equality and justice. Those citizens who, at the time of independence and after it, settled the issue of permanent residence and came from a former common country that did not have a settled residence and settled it, including citizenship and permanent residence, are, of course, placed in a worse situation in this case. And these people will also pay huge sums for those who have not proved loyal to this country. Thus, Mr Ismet Aljeski may continue to claim: "Those who persecuted me at the time I took care of it will have to pay an adequate fee for them." This is a punishment for loyalty because he has shown loyalty to this country. Mr Potts can be optimistic about how this will be resolved. Just like in the transition story. The 500 or 800 richest people who have made a fortune are optimists. There are also optimists around this government, and the question is, what is it with other citizens, or can they say they are optimistic? I'm sure you don't. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support such a proposal for a decision or the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission because it is unconstitutional. And we don't want any part of this. This will, of course, have financial implications, and the label or direction that is responsible for doing so will be clear. Voters, once again, would know what they are deciding, because the question is quite clear: it relates to the dictates of the article in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Miran the Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize to Mr Petty Officer for expecting and being optimistic that he, too, can act properly and honestly. If I'm wrong, forgive me. Mr Drobnic, I am not optimistic that you, as a member of the new term, would act honestly and properly. Secondly, I would like to say that, of course, it is clear to each of us that whenever the third examination of the law was tabled, a request or an initiative for a referendum was put forward and a final decision could not have been reached, because it was such a law on a referendum that we had to respect. We all know today that this referendum law makes it difficult or makes it impossible to perform the function of the National Assembly in some cases, but you do not want to change it. And third, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the decision taken is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has said that the referendum must also be legal and that it is also possible to abuse the Constitutional Institute of the Referendum with constant new referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Franz Kangler, he's not here. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Your Honor! I would like to use this short time only to explain the sentence that respected colleague Janš has been abusing for more than a year. In my performance, I said that respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia does not have a price for our party - no so-called deleted ones, which Mr Janša adds! Human rights are listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - in the second chapter, from page 38 to page 63 - a large number is indicated. And it is the duty of all of us in this country to defend and respect them regardless of the cost. And there was no link to the damages and he was not allowed to make, Mr Janša. Since my position on behalf of Liberal Democracy on compensation was the same as that of the former Constitutional Judge, Member, Minister of your Government, Mr Sturm; and this is that the state of compensation in judicial proceedings can limit only when it finds that they are excessive, large and threaten the public benefit in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's how we stand for it. And that's how we put it into the marriage. And this is a pure abuse of the integration of respect for human rights, which must not have a price, and of the compensations for which we in our party with full responsibility claim that in the event that they arise, we will limit them, so that Slovenians and Slovenians will continue to live as well in our country as they do in our country and even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Now they get the word in order and those who have the time at their disposal. Vojko Celigoj - do you want to discuss it? No, no, no. Aloyz Sok, New Slovenia. I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you very much. For the record, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! First of all, I would like to tell Mr Ptræ, who is leaving now, that there is no controversy with the opinions expressed here, the leaders of the groups of Members, and even less of course it is appropriate for our fellow Member, Mr Drobnič, here to insult you in your own way. So I, as an experienced parliamentarian whose work goes far into the former regime, would not expect something like this, but it is your way of working and your communication with members of the opposition that we are already accustomed to. So, you're reading out the politicization and that in the fact that today has been repeatedly told that you actually have parties to the ruling coalitions almost a two-thirds majority all the time. If you wanted to, this system law, which you've brought to third reading, would be passed. Today, at this session, we could accept it if we wanted to! So, I'm asking you to explain to us why you don't really want to do this. Why are you reading politics, and at the same time, do nothing to get this law adopted? Now, when we propose a solution when we propose a solution, you say that Slovenian citizens and citizens are ignorant of what is going on and that they would not be able to make the right decision at the referendum on such a matter. So, having such an attitude towards citizens and citizens and towards the direct democracy called the referendum is a little bit incomprehensible. In fact, I think the reward for doing this will come soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you very much. It is already true, Mr Sok, that you also say that it is not possible to decide on the system law because a request for a preliminary legislative referendum has been tabled, and we must always decide on this and it is not possible to adopt a law. That's a procedural explanation, of course. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Since, of course, the Minister is likely to perform yet, at least as indicated, there is probably one question on the ground. Indeed, it is known that Parliament has all the right, and, of course, the electorate, to express its disagreement with the decision of the Constitutional Court through a constitutional referendum. In the end, such a position was forwarded to the Minister of Home Affairs by the Government's Law Service as early as July 2003. Of course, there is a very important question here why the minister did not take this opinion into account or why it is likely that the post-government law department would have had to change its basic opinion. The same service has, of course, given two different opinions in the proceedings, but the government's legislative service in the proceedings has come to the conclusion that there is also a need to assess certain disagreements with the Constitutional Court's decision and, of course, to take a step in thinking about upgrading the resolution of this issue by constitutional law. What were these clear motives? And of course, above all: Why did you, Mr Minister, then silence this opinion of your own legal service? And above all the question: Why do you, as Minister, not respect the will of people who were, of course, clearly expressed in the referendum? When this question is resolved, answered to this question, it is likely that it will be easier to reach a consensus on the solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, I think there's 30 seconds left for your task force. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. I only have a few seconds, so I'm just gonna say a few things. For the first time, the police minister and the United List - are one party and have their reasons to adopt or somehow adopt deleted, for reasons they or they know best. Let me say that our position here has been repeatedly highlighted and we stand on the legal principles that allow us to request a referendum. If you are gentlemen who have been associated with the previous regime against the referendum, it is quite easy to understand. In addition, this decision, which was also made by the Constitutional Court, was then dealt with politically by our legislative service. And among all the lawyers we have in Slovenia, there is no one who would have the courage to say these things out loud. That's why we're not good at writing. And I hope that people understand now: sometimes it was impossible to have referendums, but today the same people do not want them, and they are against people making direct decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I don't think any parliamentary group has any more time, I mean, from the applicants, except Mr Bayuk, the others don't have any more. I'd like to take the floor with you. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Once again, I call on the proposers of this Decision to withdraw the decision. This decision has no basis in the constitution, has no basis in the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative; it introduces into the Slovenian legal order a common majority's will, which allows for very clear and explicit constitutional provisions. From this point of view, this decision, if adopted, is a constitutional blow of "par exellation". The National Assembly can do two things if it feels that something is wrong with the request. I repeat, the National Assembly may, if it considers that the request is unconstitutional and votes in favour, send a request to the Constitutional Court for review. This has happened many times before. The procedure is well known. Once you missed your hand, I hear, but otherwise you used it many times; we all know what it is. Alternatively, if you consider that the question or requirement is unclear, as you stated in this opinion, you should invite the applicant to complete or amend the request in the part where the requirement is unclear. Only after the proposer is not willing to do so can the National Assembly reject the request, but it cannot simply reject it as you propose. Really, I'd like to hear someone who tells me a piece of the constitution or the law on referendum and human initiative on the basis of which you propose such a decision. This article is not in the constitution, this article is not in the law. And you're doing something that's a constitutional blow. By a simple majority, you reject the explicit provision of Article 90 of the Constitution. Recall the similar situation that Mr Potræ said he knows that the deadline is 7 days, but he is not ready to vote today for the referendum to be called, but he may be in a few days. And, of course, a few days later, the government coalition had to break down with the ashes and adopt a decree. Because the entire legal profession in the country has stepped into the defence of the Constitution. In this case, something similar must happen. You're proposing a decision that has no legal basis whatsoever. You are in violation of the Constitution because you are the law on the referendum and the people's initiative, which is also adopted by a two-thirds majority, and with some sting you want to change the rule of law in this country. To deny the fundamental constitutional rights that the Constitution confers on either the State Council or 40,000 citizens if they make this request by signature, or 30th Members! And in the constitution, the apostles were written in the first place. This is the guardian that the Constitution gives to a minority in the National Assembly, that some important decision that it imposes on the general majority of the ruling coalition is to review those who have the main word after the constitution. These are electives and voters or people, as the constitution says. You work here according to some tradition that you use differently in the economy, "by-pass" around the constitution, and you change the legal order in an illegal way. So, I propose on behalf of the proponents that you take a 10-minute break from the government, consult, think about what you've proposed, and then either change this decision or we'll take the decision as we should. Otherwise, if you introduce such a practice today, even if it continues, there will be no protector against the abuse of the ordinary majority over the constitutional majority. Whenever someone can think of something like that, even in cases you won't like, and then it'll be too late. What's happening today is unprecedented. It's never happened before. What you're proposing has no legal basis, no legal basis. He represents the Constitutional Office. Again, we call for thought and reason. Whoever suggested it obviously doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I also invite the Minister to the floor. Dr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Allow me this position first. Manipulating with Slovenian independence: on this issue is a cheap pre-election work and extremely rude work, pointing to the relationship of this individual - in my mind Mr. Pečet - to Slovenian independence. Manipulation and integration with this daily political problem is the defamation of the historical ideal of Slovenian people and the sacrament, which is Slovenian independence. I myself am appalled at such debates because I am joining the crowds of Slovenians who feel that way. I am also protesting personally against drowning and lying about my role in self-sustainment. As regards the subject matter of today's debate. Many times it has been mentioned here that illegal decisions are being made. Decisions are legal. They are based on the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision and so far no annulment procedure has been initiated nor one audit procedure or recovery procedure by those who claim that the decisions are illegal. I wonder why that is. It is claimed that the solution is constitutional law. I prepared 13 versions of the constitutional law in December, January and February. All these options have been rejected by the opposition, and there has always been a speech that they are for constitutional law, you really are not the solution to this, so you refused a solution by constitutional law, and then you allowed yourself to initiate a constitutional procedure a month before the elections. This is something that is a miracle in modern democracy. A month before the elections, start the constitutional audit procedure! There have been many speeches here, Mr Janša has said this many times that it is the Minister of the Interior who has returned the debate on the deleted. I think very few people will believe this multiple statement. You have prepared two major projects for the month of September or a month before the elections, this is a constitutional audit procedure and a referendum requirement. It's very unlikely that you'd remember that when I realized that you'd forgotten about this when you were interpreting, very unlikely, I think you can only convince the most naive people. As far as the service is concerned. What we have officially published is true and based on the law on the general administrative procedure and this is the information that I said several times, including yesterday, 29 cases where a shipment marked that a person is unknown on the title, etc., is even a type of data you have. Everything else is information that, I don't know, from where - but above all, I deny it as implausible or inaccurate and prove nothing in this regard. Indemnity claims. It has never been claimed that there will be no compensation claims. It is claimed, however, that not one has been legally judged and, as you have heard today, according to the official data of the judiciary, and also according to our inquiries at the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office, that there are two or three pleas. Speaking and upsetting people with billions of amounts has become a complete lie. The argument for a referendum with Article 19 c, which limits the general rules, the bond rules on compensation, of course has no reason. I think that the approach we have taken together is that compensation should be limited as much as possible. This is the right approach. Now you want to challenge this with a referendum. Nor will it be held that the decision proposed today does not have a legal basis, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled, we have heard four times today, and in one case it is expressly clear that in the context of the examination of the request, a referendum can be refused even when it finds that the referendum is intended to delay the legislative procedure for the adoption of a specific law. And that's exactly what today's case is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Respectable, Your Honor. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Cuckoo, here's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u41	I understand you've come to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Then allow me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to announce an obstruction of voting. Can I explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u44	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u45	By the rules of procedure - three minutes. Indeed, the proposal for a referendum is in line with all the legal provisions that say how the referendum question is asked. It is a literal copy of this law as to how the question is formulated. Secondly, the allegations listed here that we are trying to stall are unfounded, because the system law on deleted persons is not in the process, is not in the process of being adopted and will not be adopted for a few months. We wanted the referendum to be on the electoral day, which is October 3rd, and regardless of the outcome of the referendum, which would, of course, be free of charge for the state, then the next national assembly could resolve this issue. So it's not about stalling in any way. It is obvious, however, that there is another delay between government parties, namely, that this whole mandate is very intense, unjustifiably and unlawfully delaying any referendum initiative and preventing it from being implemented, although Article 3 of the Constitution makes it clear that we have the authority of the people who exercise it through elections and directly in the referendum. This is also an attempt today to delay the referendum initiative and to prevent this basic constitutional right. However, since Article 90 of the Constitution clearly states that the National Assembly must call for a referendum, if at least a third of the Members so require, we believe that the proposal you have made to reject this requirement is, of course, a request, not an initiative, a request clearly defined in the Constitution, a counter-constitutional act. It is a violation of that fundamental, democratic right and fundamental democratic principle on which our constitutional democracy is based. Gentlemen, this is serious! It's a serious matter. We could talk about the reasons for the "yes" and the "against" referendum - you didn't allow us time, not a second for a single MP. You have already violated the Rules of Procedure here, where the right which the Group of Members may request is clearly stated, at least 5 minutes per Member. For the five agenda items - we only asked for this at one point. You've already violated the Rules of Procedure and now you're in violation of the Constitution! Gentlemen, I once said that every criminal in the first crime shakes in his heart, in his conscience; in the second crime he is more calm; in the third, it becomes routine. Gentlemen, I'm afraid this violation of the law, the constitution and the rules of procedure has already become routine for you. For this reason, of course, we will not participate in such a massacre of constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, procedural proposal. Then Mr. Petty Officer and Barovich. Yes, in order, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Indeed, what the predecessor has already said, in the second paragraph, article 90 clearly states that the national assembly must call a referendum if at least one third of Members and Members so require. This is a violation of Article 90 of the Constitution, of course of the Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, because the leadership of the National Assembly did not invite the initiators to call for a preliminary legislative referendum to supplement or amend the referendum issues. It's total ignorance, but it's more than that! It is a constitutional blow if, of course, the ruling majority does so today in Parliament. The National Assembly may assess this referendum question to the Constitutional Court, but it cannot walk or simply overlook the second paragraph of Article 90, which clearly states what the task of the National Assembly is if such a request is, of course, transmitted. And the parliamentary group, Members of the Slovenian People's Party, do not want to participate in the constitutional coup, so of course we will not take part in the vote on this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. The New Slovenia Group will also participate not only in the exercise of the fundamental constitutionality of the Slovenian State, which will have long-term consequences, but also in the strength of the rule of law. This, however, is the foundation of the order of each society. In this way, it cannot be managed by the state. You have lost every sense of justice, and so obviously there is no argument for you, nor does the constitution. Such efforts should be avoided absolutely, and I ask myself, and I would also now appeal to the President of the National Assembly, that he did not perform all those necessary actions to convene the Group of Members and perhaps to turn those who wanted to do so away from such acts. At such times, I think the previous President called, even when we were looking for solutions in the case of constitutional law. I don't think the solution was too far back then. So it's a constitutional change. He was listening. Apparently, that is no longer the case. The New Slovenia Group will not participate in this unconstitutional work, so it declares obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Thank you very much. And Mr. Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Thank you. The decision offered to all of us in decision-making is, in the opinion and assessment of the Slovenian National Party, primarily a disgrace to us Members. And in the second row, of course, shame for all Slovenes and Slovenes. It is clear that, whether positive or negative, such a decision will not be taken by the Slovenian National Party. I justifiably claim, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, colleague and colleague, that the Slovenian National Party, at each hearing: first the technical law, then the system law, and later always justified, and we can prove, offer a hand, offer assistance, offer solutions that were fair. The Slovenian national party was the first to propose that the law, when we talked about technical, as well as systemic, should be laid down that everyone must prove - who wants to be justified - and that he should renounce compensation. Never and never has this national assembly, as well as now no, listened to Slovenian national parties. And of course, we will never accept any perceptions, especially in this context, that we are just saying that we are rude, I don't know what else. That's not true! All possible solutions have always been deaf ears! It's the Slovenians and the Slovenian people. And in violating the fundamental rights of Slovenians, all Slovenians, the Slovenian National Party will not be included.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I note that the four groups of Members have announced obstruction of voting on the draft decision. However, from this city, I would like to comfort viewers and viewers who may be watching us, in these words, that a constitutional coup is taking place, but I would like to comfort them that the 21.5th National Assembly has decided on a similar matter in the same way as today, and the Constitutional Court has confirmed the decision as constitutionally consistent. So there will be no fear of an emergency as reported by the opposition. So, everyone who's left will move on to a decision on the proposal. The decision has points 1, 2 and 3. The representative of the mother's working body has already read them. So, who wants to explain the voice? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I will support this decision, and I will use the explanation to say that, despite all of this, the national assembly is doing what is its duty, even by referring to the Constitution. Colleagues who left the decision by reason of the reasons given by Article 90 obligatoryly instructs the National Assembly to call a referendum in each case when these 30 and more signatures were actually overlooked by the parties to the text, and those who adopted the constitution that we understood that if anyone, then Members were qualified to make appropriate initiatives for referendum decision-making. So, I would like to say otherwise that only the number of signatures does not guarantee that an initiative is capable of a referendum. In other words, if 31 Members suggested that, for example, in amending the penal code for some type of criminal offence, a death penalty should be imposed, the National Assembly would be faced with a similar dilemma as it is now. If what the opposition colleagues say were to do, then such a referendum should be declared, and the outcome could not be legalised, because the constitution in the second place says that there is no death penalty in Slovenia. It is also a matter that is completely solved. And from this point of view, I think it is right that the National Assembly should do what it knows is right, regardless of this assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the election to the National Assembly is too serious for the opposition to try to play them with such a show. I will therefore be happy to support the proposal for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Lavrinz, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Thank you very much. So, politics itself, they say, is one such area where you can beautifully bluff and even live a good life. Well, what they have done today, and what they have done here several times before us, Members and Members of the opposition, is, in fact, such an example of how this can be well marketed. In fact, they tried to frame us in every way, and I'm afraid they even framed us. That's the first one. Secondly, they inspire intolerance, an intolerance, and this is a horror, in fact, because one cannot imagine that politics can also be so low. Don't worry about all of us and all of those who are witnesses to this action here, it is that in Slovenia all three branches of government work as it should. So, the judicial branch of power works, as it has to, the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of power. It is not true what the representative of the SLS said here, that it is time for us not to say any special action, because there is no Messiah, so we know what this country could do to rid the three irresponsible branches of power. Therefore, I will say, such a decision, such a decision that the Constitutional Court has actually suggested to us in one of its decisions, is the only right way to get rid of such matters culturally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote; we can now move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision, as corrected by the rapporteur of the working body to the assembly today. So, in the first paragraph of the decision, 21.5.2004 is corrected by 26.8.2004. On such a revised proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister very much for his cooperation. We're going to break it down. Agenda item - Defence of Interpellations on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - which, at the request of the Government, which therefore wished to prepare additional answers, we have interrupted by 12 noon, as proposed. Ministers and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament who have left the Chamber, of course, I invite them to the Chamber, because we will continue with the interrupted first item of the agenda. Yesterday we interrupted the first item of the agenda, of course, at the point of general discussion. I really ask Members of Parliament and Members of the parties who have left the Chamber to return because it is their turn to debate. Mr. Kelemina was reported yesterday, so, please, yes. Excuse me, Mr Kelemina concluded his debate yesterday; the next panellist, Mrs Breda Pecan, is in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Dear Members and Members, dear colleagues, dear comrades and comrades. In the interpretation that I have carefully read, there are quite a few statements that are likely to need to be pointed out and that are answered by themselves, as far as I can, but I do know and, because of this or the reactions that I can make as mayor in particular. One claim, for example, is that Slovenia has the lowest share of rental apartments in Europe, only 12%, and Germany and Sweden 59 and 62%. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen who signed the interpellation, that, fortunately, it is yours, the first and, except in the lonely six months of 2000, the last government put together a famous housing law through Parliament in 1990, with which it carried out the so-called 'business of the century'. That's what the Minister of the Environment then called him. And for the presumptive purchases she sold out apartments that were leased by then, and now, of course, are privately owned, often in the burden of owners who are not able to cover maintenance costs. Thus, we now have a negative comparison of the shares of rents in other countries, especially in those with an average high share of rents, which cannot be attributed to this one, but to the Government of Demos. This not only caused the worst social disintegration in Slovenia's modern history, but also in other laws. The denationalisation, which has returned property to the polished feudal subjects and other wealthy, has created the very top of the wealthiest citizens in our country. These individuals, who have been given such wealth by you, are now working together with some others who have taken advantage of the opportunities afforded them by the property transition, a group which is a narrow but, on the basis of the extent of the assets and annual incomes, an enormous contradiction to the poorest people in our country and creates a psychological impression of the general social distribution. But, of course, your allegations of increasing poverty in Slovenia do not really have any real basis, since you have no real data to prove your allegations. At the same time, in the style of the Korean chief, dressed in Armani's creation, in front of the Slovenian public, with the apparent care of a small man, you casually announce the difficulties of an individual, exposing the difficulties of an individual, which is why the National Assembly has already adopted amendments to the housing law, which provides the possibility of subsidising rents for all those tenants who are unable to pay all the non-profit rents. If we cooperated in the adoption of housing law with sincere intent to help all the necessary assistance, the writer of yesterday's letter would have his problem solved long ago, as it happens to those who turn for advice or assistance to Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Just for a moment, because I don't have a computer yet so I can print in the National Assembly. Just like you have a habit, and as you did in this so-called interpolation. First, in one of your, supposedly high-reliability newspapers, you published some, supposedly made up of information, and then in interpreting that information you refer to as a reliable source. Or that in the interpolation you referred to comparisons of trends in gross domestic product growth, employment, unemployment, wage share in gross domestic product, and so on, after years you have always chosen the years compared by re-electing your hypothesis of the failure of this government with your chosen comparisons. This would not be allowed by any expert who gives something to his credibility. Therefore, it is good that the interpolation cannot be signed by the experts who helped to form it, since they could lose all their reputation throughout eternity, perhaps even having it in their civilian lives. Last but not least, in yesterday's debates, I have found that you have no interest in comparing the growth of our gross domestic product with the growth of gross domestic product in the European Fifteenth century, and that it is only important whether the promises of this coalition are fulfilled, regardless of what is happening in our broader environment. Of course, if we were to highlight the fact that the only year in which the difference between the growth of our gross domestic product and the gross domestic product of the Fifteen fell far below 1%, to 0.3%, a significant year in 2000, the year in which the economic response due to the sudden and unexpected change of government, similar to that of every market country, proved to be a deterrent to investment, a decline in market values and, consequently, a retention of economic growth throughout the country, I am sure that this year, as well as four years ago, electives and voters will be able to assess which policy option provides a developmentally oriented, socially secure and stable future. And that. The claim that one of the main conditions for ensuring coherent regional development is the establishment of landscapes is true. It also maintains your claim that policy has not been able to agree for years on the establishment of landscapes that could be carriers of regional spatial planning. However, not only spatial planning, but also all kinds of other tasks that are too demanding for each congregation, but also too far away from the state centre by content, interests and space. Unfortunately, you forget which part of the policy is one that does not want to agree on establishing the provinces. You had the opportunity to support the constitutional change in the landscapes, and together with a client who has played your mole in the government and coalition for more than a decade, you prevented it. So refer your criticisms to the right address, which you certainly know best.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Lydia Majnik has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Interpellation also appears to be part of the SDS and New Slovenia programme. But I must admit that their programme scares me if they accidentally manage to make it happen after the elections. While I believe that this will not happen, our citizens and citizens do not appreciate lies, non-truths, instigations and demagogies. Let me just give you a few examples. The problem of the unemployed is great and painful and we all know when it came to it. But despite the decline in the number of unemployed from 1993 onwards, from 137,000 to 95,000, the Slovenian Coalition, in the interpretation of the sample year, chose 1988, when we had 25,000 unemployed. True, we had neither the unemployed nor the poor back then, but there was another time and another country. Perhaps you regret the result of the plebiscite, I'd like to ask you. The Coalition Slovenia builds its economic policy to support small businesses and criticises aid to large ones. It is obvious that they are not concerned about job losses and the increase in the number of unemployed; in Revoz, these are several thousand, but this is obviously not important to them. In the field of higher and higher education and universities, we have a weak offer in Slovenia. It was as if they had forgotten that we had established another third university in Primorska in this mandate and that we had set up another medical university in Maribor. From their thematic round tables, they tell us that they are offering us more private schools. Why not say that private schools also mean paying tuition? In the area of agriculture, they find that partial and separate fragmentation predominates and that this prevents rational and economic production. At the same time, it is said that 3,000 farms are falling annually and that the cultural landscape is failing and it is growing. But the truth is the opposite. The development strategy and agricultural reform were adopted and the number of agricultural holdings has indeed decreased from 90,000 to 77,000, but the share of agricultural land in use has increased by 4% to 465,000 hectares compared to 1997. The average farm size, now 6.3 hectares, also increased by 23%. The increase in the area of agricultural land in use is recorded mainly in farms ranging from 20 to 50 hectares. The earth, however, is an element that is superficially limited. The justices also went very easy in the interpretation. From a few findings that no one challenges them, for example, judicial backlogs, although we have devoted quite a lot of time to solving this problem and several laws, to a direct prosecution of the prosecution, which is to blame for corruption and clientism, and that is not to be pursued. At the end of the day, the opposition champion is still resting on the Minister to be politically defined when she joins the government. But is there even a lot of people in Slovenia who are supposed to be defined one way or another? I don't think so. If I stay with the judiciary, I must say that I do not know the definitions of judges and judges from our bird courts. Except in one case where the current judge was formerly a member of the City Council and belonged to a SDS client. I'd like to know where you get the data on their definition. But you probably have this information for a large number of our citizens, or we wouldn't be proposing a percentage representation of the position and opposition in the supervisory councils in terms of political belongings coming from exactly your kind. We or the government have made decisions based on professional references, not membership cards. Intrusion of politics into the economy is therefore your idea, not ours. Like the judges, if they are an autonomous branch of power, and it would be very wrong if the policy were to directly interfere with their work, others, including the prosecutor, the presidential candidate, and including journalists, are identified, as one of the more engaged research journalists is running for office on your list. Some also change their definition, if necessary, even twice. Therefore, it is distasteful if you read the political definition to someone else. As distasteful as it is that a month before the end of the term of office, the Secretary of State, whose membership we all know, will then receive three months' service salary at the expense of taxpayers, and will also actively work in the party's electoral campaign. It is already so that in each election the electoral body is redefined. Given everything you promise and predict, I'm not afraid of these definitions in a month because I'm sure the Slovenians prefer peace to fear and uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'd like a word with the Secretary of Defense, Dr. Anton Grizold, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members and Members! In yesterday's debate, Mr Kangler, when he spoke about the processes of centralisation, decentralisation, regionalisation in Slovenia, he also raised at least two issues concerning the Ministry of Defence. I think I owe it to him and give you all an answer. The fact is that the Ministry of Defence has become an important economic partner to the entire Slovenian economy in recent years. This means both to larger companies and to medium and small enterprises. The fact is also that the Ministry of Defence has consistently implemented the principle of this regional approach in practice in many of our vital projects, from professionalisation onward. Or simply, wherever we are, either with military infrastructure or military units, or with the infrastructure of the system of protection against natural and other disasters, partner and in accordance with cooperation, we are working together with local communities, regional or regions, and, of course, we ensure that we are also, with our actions, an incentive or an incentive for socio-economic and cultural development of areas. Mr Kangler mentioned and was more interested in the municipality, or Maribor with its surroundings, so let me briefly mention some of the projects that we have implemented or are in the process of implementation in the municipality of Maribor and the wider area. First of all, it is a very large project called Kadetnica, worth 2.5 billion Slovenian tolars, which is in full swing. The second phase is ending. And in the first half of the following year, in 2005, this project was also to be completed in this third phase. This project is about rebuilding a complex of buildings that have a very large cultural and historical significance. These are buildings from 1860. After the renovation of these facilities we will transfer to this complex of educational, museum and other activities or the headquarters of the military school centre. The Ministry of Defence was carried in the establishment of a logistics centre in Maribor, located in the area of the former Tama, where this project provides jobs, circus 200. So keep jobs or new jobs. Of course, it is an activity of servicing military vehicles and other military equipment of the Slovenian army. Third time. The study for the establishment of this centre was made by the Technical Faculty in Maribor and also the Institute for Project Management of the Faculty of Economics in Maribor is included in our key project Provoj or Professionalization of the Slovenian Army. The former military station Melje and the Municipality of Maribor were transformed into an entrepreneurial zone. The warehouse of Pevol and the plot around this warehouse were transferred to the Faculty of Agriculture in Maribor. We left the shooting site under Pohorje. This was a shooting site near the Habakuk hotel, mainly because it was in the interest of Maribor to implement their tourism development plans. Through the program of so-called integrated supply of soldiers, we together with the Canadian armed forces ensured the use of hotels in Maribor and the surrounding area. Part of the army of the Duke of Misič we transferred to the Red Cross and Karitas in Maribor, while the rest of this barracks was intended for the expansion of the hospital in Maribor. The former Military Bakery was handed over to Maribor City Municipality for the conduct of social activities. The National House was also given in the use of the Municipality of Maribor. In short, together with the Municipality of Maribor, we also build a regional and dispatch centre for a fire and rescue agency and emergency medical services. In summary, during the period considered 4 billion Slovenian tolars were concluded with companies in Maribor and around the area, and once again so many, 4 billion Slovenian tolars, through contracts under the title of basic development programmes. The second part of the issue referred to the objective research programme Security for Peace, which was launched by the Ministry of Defence in 2004 together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, to summarise. The number of applications submitted by universities was as follows: "The University of Ljubljana has submitted 76 applications, of which 19 projects were accepted, representing 25%. The University of Maribor submitted 19 applications and received 3 projects, representing 16%. The University of Primorsk received 43% of the approved projects, which of course makes it clear that the tender did not predominate regional criteria, but other criteria such as the quality of the application, the research character, the application in terms of the overall quality of the project and the project group, the appropriateness of the application in terms of the topics presented and the feasibility and organisation of the project."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Joseph Bernick gets the floor for his discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies ministers, ladies ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I have to be very brief because you've given us too little time, but let me start by saying this. It seems to me that this interpolation system is on your head because you're talking about how we provoked you and demanded you, and you've actually turned the whole thing upside down. Just look at what's going on. We've sent you questions, and you've sent us back a whole set of official data that we haven't even asked about, and today you need to fix this. In any case, you've been given full hours of propaganda for your work. If you look at the list of those who will still speak for me, somehow 49 people are together and 35 of them are from the United List and the Liberal Party. One after the other. Let the audience prepare to get the perfect, what I'd say, salvo, what you've done, but I'll talk about some other thing. I'd like to talk about what the Minister, who's responsible, hasn't even mentioned, and he's in his ministry. And that's what this ministry does to those dead who were killed after the war. They'll say Bernick's talking about it again, and I'll always talk about it because I want to appeal to your conscience. Let me tell you, the minister in his ministry has an office dealing with the living, these are old fighters of both the revolution and the liberation fronts and the dead. The dead don't trouble him because they're dead, they're making him a problem, and he only has money to live for. And now it's like this. I want to know what the Minister did for all of this. Look, the government put up one camouflage ten years ago, that's the Cemetery Commission or the War Cemetery. This commission had no powers, it was all in the power of a secretary who, of course, wasn't cute. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And while it's clear [[...]] [[...]] [[Continuation.]] It's time for the living. [[...]] This took a long time, ten years almost, but in November 2001 we received the first letter from the former president of the country saying how the dead should be recognised as being our people, but he did not forget to say that history should not be corrected because the hedgehogs were set. Later one interesting letter came from the government itself, ten pages. And here it tells us how to proceed in a pietically manner to ensure that the remains are unearthed under the supervision of the judicial authorities and appeals to the State's Attorney's Office to issue the death certificate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the State Prosecutor's Office to establish procedures for determining and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the law on the mother book of all cases because there is no other proposer. [[...]] And so on. I've been asking you what kind of pie this is, but it's probably the pieta that was defined in Kumrovec. Good. Finally, we received a law last June, which was adopted under great pressure and also outvoted. We were overvoted, so it's like there was no pie, nothing, it was just the dead. And we don't seem to understand this in this national assembly and even in the whole government that this is about people who have been killed violently and it's either genocide or it's a crime against humanity. Here, too, Mrs State Prosecutor, now the Justice Minister, who was in this group trying to hide all these things, and to this day nothing has changed so much, although the law was passed last June and so far nothing has happened, only a few months ago some acts have been adopted, but they should have been long ago. You can see how this whole thing works. What should the government do? If the government really thinks about Slovenians, about society, about the country, then we should think about some things and do them. First time. Let us finally face the test of facts in the past, contrary to the unfair design of the same history, adapted over long years for political purposes. Let it set up a committee of honest people who will look for facts and come to certain conclusions. But we'll be able to save the rest ourselves later. Where are the files on these murders? Where are the records of those graves that were desecrated and so on and so on. Mr Rob, the current president, was sometimes a minister for work and family and should know this; therefore I ask him, but he is not here. And we've been asking that for a long time, and we didn't get any answers. Then I would say that some things need to be explored, such as the killing of prisoners of war, who were pulled from the hospital in Slovenia immediately after World War II and then disappeared – well documented, but the last thing I got from the former chief state prosecutor is that it's still being investigated. Well, yeah, it's probably going to be researched forever. Let me finish. Look, this government, as well as the customers, these customers of yours, are acting like some horribly closed company that reminds us of the mob. What's going on: you have no sense of pluralism, you have no tolerance for your members, you don't want to talk about things that would be common good for Slovenians at home and around the world, and total intolerance to other thinkers. I'm gonna end this: it's been on your conscience for 60 years, and God knows how long it's gonna be until we move things somewhere else. But remember the Latin rule that says, "Ve victis!"Woe to the winners!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Ivan Christmas has the floor to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! Nice to meet you, too, Minister! I must say that it has never happened to me before when I said that the three ministers were present, that there were almost half of them, one in two in favour of the male sex - and the ministers were also greeted! - which shows that it is not true that we do not have a hearing for the gentle sex in Slovenia. Yesterday's conversation between the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and the current Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the regions, in particular the Western region, Slovenia and Italy, gave me a thought and that is why I am announcing myself. I will never, as a Primorec, agree to any region with the contours of the Rapal Treaty. The marines paid dearly for their lives in the then part of Italy. And we don't want to have her anymore. Not at all. Second. I also ask the current Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Maritime Diary, today, speaks of the disgrace that took place in Trieste at the election of Miss Trieste. Since she was elected Slovenian, she is not a true winner of the beauty contest. Read today's issue of the Naval Diary and you'll see what it says. I ask him what he did on the basis of such articles and such a right - hand attitude in Italy. That is why Trieste cannot be the seat of the regions. And another thing I'd like to say is that we're talking today about interpolation. The dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language says that interpellation is the request of a group of Members, delegates in the Assembly, so it was written that a specific political issue from the work of the Supreme Executive Body should be addressed. Or a legal lexicon that says interpellation is a way of expressing criticism. Today I am calling for damage and earthquake in the Soča Valley, which affected three municipalities in the previous term and the present, and almost all the northern and western parts of Slovenia in 1998. I'm asking why this earthquake recovery hasn't been completed in six years. Because we wrote a lot in these 350s and several other sides of the government's response, what has happened and nothing is mentioned about the earthquake. It would be good to write down why everything didn't happen. Six years is a long time. I am not asking how the Ministry of the Environment and Space will resolve the issue of poorly restored facilities. This is a matter of a minister who will be able to persecute the people who have done this wrong. But I'm talking about why it wasn't all done. Never in the National Assembly have we voted against any harm the government has proposed. We've always confirmed it. We even demanded more. Secondly, what I would like to say is about the Upper Lawn and after the earthquake of the affected work, what the aid to the economy should be. I think help through incubators is too small. Looks like she didn't do well, because employees and new companies are too small. They're not doing well. I am still in favour of, and will defend, that with other economic concessions affecting the Ministry of Finance and Economics, by reducing taxes, it is necessary to attract people who will come to invest and live and work in the Soko Valley. What's wrong, and what brings me to this? Today, according to the papers, is the day of the yellow route, which is the first day of school. In the upper Soča, three municipalities now had 152 children in 16 primary schools. Out of eight schools, less than five. A new initiative, when we begin to talk about life and work in Parliament and life and work in the Upper House, will certainly be a matter of demographic breakdown. As we imagine Baska Grapa, who has 11 more children, Gorenje Trebuša, who has not been in elementary school for years or years. How that part of the Soča valley from Bovec to Trenta, which still has two children enrolled in the first grade of primary school in Soča, in the whole valley from Bovec to Vršič. I think we need to think about that. And I'm going to say and I'm going to end this part of me, the contribution to this point, all 359 or how many pages of your government response, these people are not interested. They want to know when the impact of the earthquake will be resolved and when it will return with the help of the government, life in Upper Soča. A better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u68	Thank you, Ivan Christmas. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. At the time of the interpolation, the government reacted extremely nervously, with extreme panic, responding to the news of the intervention. We have witnessed not only this panic, but also the insult, the very serious insult and the stupidity. Mr. Rouss spoke about how the pensioner was upset, but now that his client was falling apart, he was referring to a meeting in August, and he was expelled from Maribor and so on. Look, the insults were unnecessary, too. I was surprised that Mr Pavliha was so insulted and even it turned out that he did not know what the word paraphrase was, paraphrasing - because it was no paraphrasing, but we could paraphrase in all this Ashkerec and his song and ask ourselves, "Why are you so lame, you're afraid of the Slovenians?" Looks like an Ashkin. He says, "Fear vengeance from the multitude of the unnumbered." In fact, this fear is incredible. This morning there was panic in the government ranks, delaying, seeking answers, with the opposition almost taking the word, being reduced to the lowest possible extent. Look, the best interpretation of the government's work in the past term was actually put forward by Mr Pahor, the previous President of Parliament, who was in an interview with the Journal on 12 July - please, if you will allow it - said that "the new government will not be in power for all four years" and yet, "we are in a position where we need a brave government" which we do not have now, "according to my assessment of the government that we will elect in the fall, it will not be in power for all four years." This means that she will have to take a series of unpopular measures. The president of the government party, the other largest government parties, obviously knows what is covered by the Slovenian people, what mistakes the government has made, what it has been covering, how unreal data is what the people are asking about. He frankly said that we have a very difficult period ahead of us. Usually at the end of the term of office, all governments, all politicians praise what they have done. And there's evidence that everything we've said about the interpretation is quite true. The government has absolutely no arguments in this reply. If I had any arguments, I'd write a short answer, no more than an interpolation, but it did bring 350 pages from computers. It is shameful to respond in such a way to a government that is competent. These are the frames. Why is the government so nervous? I would touch only one scandal, which is in these August days regarding the functioning of justice and bankruptcy proceedings that took place in Maribor. We know that the bankruptcy administrators apparently, in agreement with the power centers, have spent billions of dollars, collected billions of money. And apparently, the government, the justice ministry, as it were, ordered a supervisory commission at the Maribor District Attorney's Office, official supervision, so-called, on the functioning of bankruptcy senate. This commission, which she is hiding, I couldn't get it, even though I officially requested it from the Justice Minister, she wrote, the bankruptcy Senate, which the supervisory authorities are in bankruptcy, is nothing to blame because they were seduced by the bankruptcy managers. These covered the correct data, although Article 81 of the bankruptcy law makes it clear that every three months they have to provide a written report on the financial situation. But they didn't ask and they were seduced. It's a scandal of a couple of excellencies. In any democratic country, the Minister or Minister of Justice would react very harshly at such a time, and our Minister would make the committee to sweep under the carpet so that no one would be to blame. Oh, obviously no one is to blame, and therefore we have asked the Prime Minister to leave the Minister for objective reasons for moral reasons. He didn't react at all to the Prime Minister, as far as I know. The Maribor newspapers called for a scandal. It's actually a scandal. Others who are even more under pressure from government and capital are, of course, silent about this scandal. Such a sweeping of corruption and customerism is taking place daily by this government in many areas. However, you did not write in this reply about where you really were successful, about the total centralisation of the country and the total bureaucracy of the country. And here you are successful. The former Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, says in a Saturday interview at Evening that nothing has been done on the Anti-Birocratic Programme. Mrs Nevenka Pergar is now in another job; huge money has settled for that program and nothing has been done. And that's how it's done in this government. And here you were successful. Admit that you were successful here — that it consumes a lot of money that does not work. And then, look, the sale of the New Credit Bank. Yesterday, Minister Lahovnik was telling the truth that we supported the explicit sale of the Bank of Maribor to foreigners. That's not true! I had to park – and this only moved when I said if you were to sell this bank to the Austrians, you would comply with the command "make me this country German again," and only then did it move. Otherwise, commissions have already been changed, everything has been settled, everything has been set for this sale. There was no national interest and no patriotism. Then, at the time of taking office, Mr Rob promised the actual financial pillar. It's practically nothing. They'll take away Maribor insurance company, that's the only thing, even though he made a clear promise. I'm in a hurry because I have little time on what the government has promised. I'm sorry Mr. Gantar isn't here. Mr Gantar, when he was Minister of the Environment, promised money in my places, in the Dravin Valley, for the regulation of Dravinje, for the regulation of Haloz and so on, on the face of the city. Then he promised me every year that he would be in the next budget, and then he moved to another resort because he knew that he had promised and kept nothing. Now, of course, Minister Kopač, who has no relation to a small person, an average citizen, to these places that are demographically threatened. Because he is the author of this "Doctor's Doctrine" that, say, there are no capable people in Maribor at all, at the holding. And here you were also successful – holding you took to Ljubljana, and money, of course. See, and you withdrew in this mandate the law on coherent regional development, which is the most needed law throughout the country. When I mention Dravinjska Valley, Haloze, there are a lot of local communities like Makole, Studenice, Poljčany, Šmartno, Opletnica, Příchova and so on, which should have some hope under this law; they will not have it until we have such authority. Obviously, it is necessary for these places to change power in order to start another policy in this country, so that hope in these places can be re-examined. And, Mr. Minister of Health, I've been specifically contacted by people. You are talking – and also yesterday – about reduced types of operations, backlogs. From Upper Poland, I got a call from a man who said he'd been waiting 18 months for a gray cloud, and he called me from Prague. Don't say that I don't know how those hands got cut because that's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you, Joseph Jerovšek. The word is wanted by Minister Zdenka Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Woe to us if such ones were to judge — only one side would find out, the other would always be unknown, even though it was published in the newspaper. When the Ministry found out about the failure of bankruptcy managers [[He didn't have money in his private pocket yet, but he was borrowed.]] , was immediately determined by official supervision. The official controls have been carried out and the Ministry has announced publicly that it does not agree with the findings of official controls because it assesses that errors have been made. It also proposed the withdrawal of licences under the bankruptcy law that you accepted. You have made such a provision that this is the maximum that the Minister of Justice can do in such a case. The maximum option has been used. There is not enough time for dialogue, so I continue in another area of judicial backlog. I agree with the assessments made yesterday that the judicial backlogs are one of the main obstacles to the rapid path to justice, to the dissatisfaction of citizens and to the reduction of confidence in justice. I said that the government in this area has provided the judiciary with all possible instruments to improve the situation. And when the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday that we also have a plan for the judicial backlogs to be eliminated, he did not have in mind the government's plan, but rather the judiciary's plan, which he adopted with the Ministry of Justice, along with me. A number of activities have been carried out in relation to this plan, personal discussions, discussions and intensive involvement of the President of the Supreme Court himself. I can tell you that the plans have already produced the first fruit. The statistics we received for the first half of 2004 show that backlogs in the general field in the judiciary have decreased by 2.4%, in the area of important cases by 4.5%, and the Senate President for Offences has informed me that they have resolved out of the ordinary over 30,000 cases in the last three months. These are the results that show that the plan adopted by the judiciary has begun to work. I personally feel not the minimum but the maximum responsibility to keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word gets Bojan Kontic for his discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear Ministers and Ministers of the Slovenian Government! Members of the ruling coalition, too, are time-bound, not only by mandate, but also by debate, in a democratic way. And that's why, my colleague Bernick, is probably the last time in this term. He used to say worse to the winners. I say it makes us feel worse if his men won World War II. History cannot be fixed, neither in your image nor in the image of the patriots, the facts remain. Each party represented in Parliament has left for the elections with its programme and its staff offer. The result in the 2000 elections was not only a reflection of this but also of the experience of that period four years ago. People chose between the then current government, which named Bajukova government, but essentially the government of Mr Janez Janša, and the offer that was then special with Drnovšek. And what is the object of the opposition today? To demonstrate the inability of this government and the experience of 2000 to gain people's confidence with the desire that four years is enough for voters and voters to forget about the period when they had power, they played it with unwitting moves. It is not a government that can fully fulfil all the tasks set and achieve all the objectives set. It is impossible to accurately predict the conduct of all factors and the external impact that cannot be affected. It is true that if we thought of all of this, we could do more and better. But in the given circumstances, much work was done. The opposition also participated in some of the successes. All of this was mentioned today and yesterday. But there are also unfinished acts. Here, in Parliament, not in government. I am talking about regional policy, about the uneven development of Slovenia. We must recognise that in this mandate we have failed to change the constitution in the articles that would allow the introduction of the provinces. It was said that the reason was to prevent the participation of local communities. The regions are essential for more coherent regional development projects. In view of those who say that the congregations, including the smallest ones, are the guarantee for development. Let me mention only Prekmurje, which according to the number and size of the municipalities is most divided, has the most developmental problems at the same time. That's actually what he's calling the provinces. Although much has already been said about the following topics, let me define my relationship with two, I believe, key achievements of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Social partnership has also been established in practice, which has become a standard of conduct. Civil society is involved in the legislative process, which is much better than simply contributing to creating conditions for social conflicts. Let me mention only the Labour Relations Act, pension reform, as well as the regulation of public sector relations, including wage policy. All of this is regulated or has been regulated by the involvement of the social partners. Another area that is very sensitive is unemployment. What it means to be unemployed is known only by those who have actually experienced it. Work is the one that ensures personal security, social inclusion. This is especially important for us where work is an important value. Aware of the problems faced by the unemployed, it is essential to recognize that unemployment has been the lowest since 1993. The claim that we've changed the recording system is true. At the same time, however, it is also clear that there are currently approximately 15,000 more people in employment. I have an economic analysis in the Savini-Shales region, where they found that compared to 1997 in 2003 there are more employees in the Savini-Shales region than I said in 1997. This confirms that we are on track to the goal of full employment. And a few more views from the local angle. This government has been one of the best, if not already the best, after a period of independence, and this is true in many areas. Finally, I have a recognized demand for a better road connection. The fast road is included in all the necessary state programmes. In the field of education, culture, sport, social society, with the cooperation of the government and Parliament, at state level, and the municipalities, at local level, we have achieved a concerted investment of many important objects. There's some work done, some investments are under way, and we're planning some more together. And in the end, let me just say that in Velenj we will not forget the right-wing government's attitude at the time Gorenje was in trouble because of the fire. As I said in the introduction, not everything we wanted to do has been done, but the overall assessment of the past period is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u74	Thank you, Comrade Kontic. Anton Butolen gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the presidents, representatives of the government and all Members and Members of Parliament. I have always imagined my work in Parliament as serious and garage work, which, on the basis of arguments, is trying to find the best solutions for our citizens and citizens. I am not saying that most of the work at this time was not such or that much work was done, but unfortunately there was too much performance and I apologize for the word "activities" in the worst sense of the word. I have always been able to engage in serious work myself, but I find it difficult to engage in such a debate without arguments as it was just before, if the gentleman who spoke not directly before me, but just before me, read the report on the State Prosecutor's Office, I would not be saying what he was saying, which is demagogic and without arguments. I am saying this because foreign demagogies are my foreign disqualification of political opponents. But I want to say a few words about demography, because I come from the environment alone, because I come from an environment where demography and birth rates are extremely important. This matter or this chapter is extremely important for our country, as well as for the entire European community, which is why it pains me so much more when this approach is simplified.I have been listening to one basic thesis in this Parliament for two years: poverty has caused the number of births to fall. This is, of course, notorious nonsense, indicating that there are no demographic experts among the 500 experts of the so-called shadow government. Please tell me one state council from the third world, the country where there is the greatest poverty, where the number of births is declining. Please look at the data for Bangladesh, and you'll understand. Just the opposite. The number of births is declining in the developed world. This is the problem of the developed world, that is the problem of Europe. Sounds sad, but it's real. When this matter came to us, we actually entered the developed world. This, of course, does not mean that this problem is not serious and that it does not need to be dealt with. Otherwise, because I'm being read to Bangladesh, I might as well say otherwise. There was a survey in our area, and in the school environment in our area there were 92 births in 1896. Later I looked at the 1995 data and there were five births. In 1896 you would have felt that you were dipping honey and milk in Haloza if you thought that poverty caused the birth rate to drop. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and there are other important levers that have led to our being where we are now. The problem is that at the time, honey and milk were not drained, and there are other data that I will now read: of the 92 births, 16 children died in that distant year at birth, 11 children died before their first birthday, and 16 children died by the age of 15. In total, 49 children were born on their 15th birthday, and 43 died. This means that this thesis that poverty causes the number of births to fall is completely flawed. It is true, however, that because of the unpredictability, perhaps even poverty, there has been an increase in evictions. And in the 1950 ’ s, the number of citizens in our congregation fell from 2,700 to 1,430, unfortunately that happened. However, I am pleased to say that in the last five years this matter has changed for the better and the number is no longer falling. As I have already said, there is not enough time to discuss this in more detail. However, this will have to be dealt with throughout the European Community, which we are members of, but we need to face it on the basis of arguments. Our government has also adopted some good programmes during this period. Regardless of which government it will be, it will have to face this constantly and take serious measures and serious programmes to take account of this negative trend in the number of births, but certainly not on the basis of so simplified, flat-rate estimates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u76	Thanks, buddy Butolin. The word is Maria Ana Tisovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, all government representatives. Hello, colleagues. Since I have very little time, I will touch only one thing, namely the department of the school ministry. We have recently passed a law on higher education. In this law, the government also brought tuition for university studies. Much has been said about whether school fees are necessary or not, but the law is adopted and the tuition will be. In our client, we are committed to enabling all serious students to study, regardless of their financial capacity. At the time of the adoption of the Higher Education Act, it was said that social transfers would help students whose income per family member would not exceed a certain degree of censorship. We know that non-census families are very difficult or unable to survive from month to month, so these transfers are. There is another segment of the population that has income on the family member just above the price; they are not entitled to any money aid, but live literally from hand to mouth. Students in this group will almost be unable to afford a study. However, since it is harmful for each society to lose quite a part of its intellectual potential, each government should imagine doing so. Before adopting this law, or at least at the same time a mandatory legal basis should be laid down for the formation of scholarship funds and for favourable loans studies. In certain countries, they also give good students a discount on the repayment of credit. The government has not yet fulfilled the promises made to students in the field of student homes, which also limits the possibility of studying students coming from the so-called lower middle-class population with poor financial opportunities. Since we have become members of the EU, we can also expect changes in the field of student work, which will certainly have a negative impact on the possibility of student work. We believe that the government has done a great deal of damage because of uncoordinated moves in the area of higher education. I'm afraid the trend that she set for higher education to rise will suddenly begin to decline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word gets to Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your word. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, in the introduction, I would like to respond to Mr Pavliha's debate yesterday, which says that there are many unilateral, misleading and unrealistic claims in interpretation. And he didn't say a word about who they were. As for quality and quantity of response. Quality is not likely to be special, but quantity is extremely high and thus quality cannot be hidden. Next thing, Mr Minister says that this government inherited a national highway programme for 1995 and 1998. No, she took over the 1998 program. This programme was obviously so good that the government coalition incorporated it into its coalition contract, and it predicted that all motorways would be completed in 2004. The claim that the Government had adopted a national programme in February, a resolution of the national programme, was not correct and adopted by the national assembly. But it had to prepare that national programme that you put into your coalition contract, which, within six years, from 1998 to 2004, was expected to be completed, found that it would take another 9 years to implement this programme. So much for the quality of government and planning. You were also talking about the number of miles of highways built by this government. The mandate of this government began in October 2000 and will end in October 2004. So far, 80 kilometers of highways have been opened, not 166, as you said. This is probably true if we consider 1998 to be the start of the motorway programme. That's from Dars. Next thing. I have to say, I'm very surprised that you said at the meeting in Odessa that it's investing in highways of 36 billion, in state roads of 30 billion, and that the programmes are balanced. That's not true. According to the financial plan for this year, 122 billion will be invested in the motorway. 7. 8% of the state budget. So much is written in a document to be adopted by the National Assembly, or he has already accepted it. This can be checked out. The next thing is, Mr Minister, there are no resolutions on transport policy in this country. The only one who can adopt this resolution is the National Assembly. Everything else you have is work material or whatever we call it. This resolution has not been published anywhere and cannot be implemented by the Government. Everything you do on the basis of a resolution on transport policy falls into the category of illegality and all those matters that are and even if they are financial, constitute breaches of financial plans. It is similar with the national programme for the construction of motorways. He was admitted to the National Assembly in February. You have been in Prekmurje on the initiative of, I don't know, the President of Parliament, Members from that area, and you have assured that certain sections of the road will happen and come into effect sooner than anticipated. You haven't changed any financial plans, you haven't fixed any deadlines, but you promise to build twice as many projects as this government has been capable of so far with the same funds at a shorter time interval. I wonder if these miracles are even possible, and I'm interested in who we're going to rob on the highway in this dynamic. The financial structure has not changed in this part. If the doctor makes so many mistakes about what's adopted and what's not accepted and what's not valid and what's not, then I have to say it's a disaster. And what you said about the driver's license and the traffic licence probably applies to government ministers. And I have a feeling that all you've done is take a social exam at LDS, as well as a sovereign chauffeur in this area. In short, the information you provide in this area is absolutely not true and is all recorded in documents that are available on the Internet or anywhere else. And even in the National Assembly, they were presented. Next, I must say that 500 million Euros of earmarked funds have disappeared from the highway programme. They need to be replaced, replaced by credit funds and other forms of debt, but this is a completely different problem. This year, on the rationality of work, we will have two openings on the same section: one in October and the other on the birthday of one of the operators. The government will pay, or we will pay taxpayers to open the same section twice. This is completely obvious, absolutely clear. As far as the railroad is concerned, there's no point in saying much. The next thing I want to touch is some data from the interpolation. In Table 17, referring to total employment, total employment decreased by 57,000 between 1991 and 2002. As regards the ratio in Table 19 of the people who lost their jobs and those who received it between 1995 and 2003, 557 lost their jobs at that time. 600 people, got 504,000. In short, fewer employees of 50,000, 53,000. The data are from UMAR, the previous from the employment agency. If we move on. All this tide, these 57,000 people, happened on the pension scale. Between 1996 and 2003, the number of pensioners increased by 54,429. In short, the influx of pensioners and I do not think we can guarantee economic growth with those who have done all their work in the past. And what's worse, this whole influx of pensioners was paid by the pensioners themselves because we robbed them in the middle of December 2000 or the government's proposal for two pensions or 15%. And this tide was paid by the pensioners. The next thing, which is extremely problematic, is the movement of registered unemployment - complete manipulation of records. About 30,000 people are not included in these records, and not only the 13,000 that he mentioned earlier yesterday, Mr Drobnič, but all those who are in public works and in training, that is 30,000. And real unemployment is about 125,000 people. In short, the new dead capital that this country has that we cannot count on for economic development. The next thing that is very problematic is the influx of young people from school and the outflow among the unemployed. Between 1995 and 2003, 204,000 children came from schools and 163,000 and 80% of the population are unemployed. I can also mention the next problem that concerns this part, and this is the problem of housing. Not only do we not provide jobs for young people, there are no apartments. According to the 2000 national programme, 10,000 housing units were targeted, including 4,500 social housing, by Minister Gantar. It says 2,000 to 2,500 is the lower limit. The coalition has put them into the 1,500 programme, that is to say for three years 4,500, and has built 2,200 and 15% of the national programme of identified needs. Catastrophe! And we can't count completely anything like this. And because there's no time, just one more thing. In 2000, the Coalition promised to build 5,000 dormitories within five years. Now that we are almost at the end of our term of office, it would be nice if Mr Gaber told us whether we have 300 or have 5,000. There will be no 4,000 of them built next year. In short, one week or one tenth of this program has not been implemented. And I think manipulation of these things is catastrophic. And just a word: all this is possible because we have far the lowest share of journals and reports on public television - in Slovenia 4%, in Hungary 8%, and in all other countries of Europe between 10 and 14%. In short, Slovenians are two and a half times less informed than all other nations in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u80	Thank you, Josie Tanko. Jerica Mrzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister and Ministers. Dear Members and Members, dear people. This is what the poet said, because I have the habit of quoting something: "O history, blind unrest of mankind, constant confrontation of good and bad, falling into the abyss of chastity, from morning to evening, one solemn confusion itself. About the history, the training of the magnificent and the sweetness of the oblivion." My dear people, it's not about the data, the data is said by the ministers, the data is repeated by people here, said 10 times, 20 times. Nobody listens to them. It's not about the data. When I watched two days ago on TV on the night of the confrontation, I guess I wasn't the only one who got the feeling it was an emergency. As if our young country had been attacked - by whom, in fact, and how? We built our home for the first time in history. We have our own independent state. When a home is built - and one who has already done so well knows how, he is also aware that a lot of bad things have been done, but there is a lot to be done in order to make repairs, he is also aware of how this home will have to be maintained. But the worst part is when a home has to be destroyed. To be overthrown is simply for some stupid reason even to replace the people who reside in it. This morning, if anyone has listened - excuse me, may I speak? This morning, if you were listening to the second morning chronicle, you heard what happened before World War II. What propaganda was and how it convinced them [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u82	Comrade Rupar, please don't fall into the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u83	That the nation that then invaded all of Europe was at risk. [[...]] And it's like we're in danger. I have to say, when we gained our independence, I became afraid of anti-reformation. The same people who speak today and these days, how bad everything is, what was done after the conquest, say how bad everything was, what was done after the Second World War in socialism, but we know that at the time the homes were built, that the three neighbours came together, bought material and made homes. We know that the jobs were, we know that the hospitals were made, we know that everyone could have been educated at the time, and that's why a critical mass of educated people who could have made a state of their own. The same people are trying to destroy the national liberation struggle - the same people. The same people are trying to put on the pedestal an unfortunate betrayal; the same people are not aware of our history and are not aware of Cankar, who was destroyed by the Erotics of 1911 - Cankar, who wrote "The People will write their own judgment," and also now of course will write their own judgment. And I invite dear and respected voters and voters to think about how, in what way. Look, there's a movie on the foyers. Are we aware of that? And we're arguing about what's done and what's not. All people in Slovenia, as well as foreigners coming to us, know that Slovenia has developed to flourish. We all know that! And yet you argue in Parliament! And yet all the information the ministers say! And yet all the information that other Members are telling! No! No! This spasm is constant and heavy. There's only one thing I'd like to tell you, because there will be others talking about me. Only those societies that had no wars or other things and severe earthquakes developed in history. Only in peace can society develop well. I could tell you about history because you obviously don't know it. I could tell you about the fate of Prešern, Linhart, Levstik, the unfortunate Trubar and the time he was rich. I could tell you about the peasant rebellions. I could tell you about Valhun, who was-- whose son was already, the son of Kytimar. And I could say to you, "Don't sword, we'll be driven away by happiness." I could tell you a lot. That's why I'm in this party because I'm aware of Slovenian history and I'm aware of what was good done and what we can build on. I'm sure it's not the instigation, the argument, or even the fake innuendo. Thank you very much. I wish you all happiness and, above all, the electorate and the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I invite Gez Juban to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. After this performance, a colleague might be wise to finish. Usually, this kind of performance was done by a colleague of Partljič, who tried to round us up the story that was going on here in an unusual way. However, this attempt to politicise the situation in Slovenia cannot, of course, be completed in this way, because we still have some time at our disposal. Two and a half hours. Most people don't know what we're doing here anymore. Obviously, we too, if we look around the hall, are no longer interested in what is going on here, and any clever depravity is probably more unwise than clever. Displaying the situation and the desire of those who accuse the government is not about to happen anymore, but about nothing happening. Look, I'm from one of the regions that's interested in - statistical regions - to have regions. It's a big deal about centralization. And in order for decentralisation to take place, we see in every vote that your colleagues voted against the establishment of the regions. We had the case of Revoz, who is deeply concerned that people would be grateful to this government for what happened. We also had a story in Mura. When the government decided to help Muri, we had a very quick meeting of the Committee on Economics and Questions, why and how Muri such and so much help. During all the years of the development of the national highway construction programme, things were moving along the snail. On the one hand, local politicians, who are here today talking about how slowly the road is being built, have done everything not to build a highway in Prekmurje. Even at the last decision of the government to accelerate construction with a view to increasing traffic, we were able to see again the concern in the media and why to speed up the construction of the motorway in Prekmurje. Here again today we hear some concern when, of course, there are cameras — a confused state of unconsciousness! And, of course, stories, farmers and agriculture are being abused in an incredible way. It seems that many do not like what the government has done in the last days — speeding up the completion of drought damage relief and rapid action on the tide. In a very short time, a lot happened. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, there was only one government that did not implement the land rehabilitation law, which was Bayukova, and only one government carried out the agriculture ministry, plus a billion-and-a-half, that was Bayukov's government. Manipulations, like rarely anyone sees. What's it gonna be? What's it gonna be Look, everyone's talking about an area, just agriculture itself. We have a program that says [[I'll just give you two examples.]] : "With various forms of assistance, we will also promote the progress of the remaining agricultural and forestry companies as well as the transformation of the successors of the former agricultural economies." We know who they are. I might agree, but on the Committee on Agriculture we have repeatedly experienced stories about how to eliminate them. The program says you'll be encouraging them. Maybe okay, but where did you turn from? We are further reading how it will be introduced: "Slovenia will have to move on to a system of direct payments." I hope Mr. Booth doesn't have a stroke. But we do have the highest direct payments from the transition countries! The negotiators even argued that Slovenia was paying from its own budget by reaching the European level, the level of the old members. Is it not similar to the story that it was written by someone who is similar to what Minister Pavliha said — he said that they have certain documents, and I would say that the question is whether they have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u86	Thank you, Gezzy Juban. Ivan Mamić is available for a while. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I would like to talk about our tolls and honesty, as our government says in this regard. I am deeply convinced that of all of us here, no one can explain the toll payment system on our highways and fast roads. In fact, we have a partially closed, partially open, partly with a large discount and partly a free system. In order to achieve this, the country had to spend a few billion dollars, because when building highways and fast roads, we also had to work on the payment system that we have, at the same time preparing for a modern system, so-called "pay what you are transporting". What about the infrastructure that cost us so much? In fact, one smallest toll station costs about 300 million Slovenian tolars, 21 of them large and small in Slovenia. According to my calculations and modest knowledge of mathematics, there are about 6 billion. The non-systematic system we have tells us: We have such expensive tolls that they cost as much fuel for the same transported miles. Second. On certain sections, the driver must pay even three times that rating, on a fast road that is not the same standard as the highway, for example, a relationship in the Vipavska Valley. [[...]] Third. In the central part of Slovenia on the highway of Slovenia, one kilometer, on one part, is paid half price, it is the section of Vrhnika-Ljubljana. Four. Driving around Ljubljana on the highway is free of charge. Five. If we go back a few years ago, we know that there was no toll payments on the route Ljubljana-Visnja Gora for many years. A three-year toll was paid on the route from Stuck to Podnanos, although there was no fast road and there is no road today. To conclude, I find that closer to Ljubljana you pay less tolls, let anyone else from the government or anyone say that there is no centralism in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u88	Thanks, buddy Mamić. Franz Pukšič gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. There was a lot of panic as to whether the opposition should even speak about what is in the coalition agreement or not. Mr Drnovšek as mandate-holder sent Borut Pahor the following letter to Borut Pahor to submit part of the coalition agreement - that is what Dr Dr Drnovšek wants - before the first point is discussed. This means that the mission of the opposition is to keep an eye on whether what the coalition has promised the electorate and the electorate is being carried out. In the 10th item of your programme, you wrote: "The regional future of Slovenia, which will ensure a balanced regional development in the implementation of the life opportunities of citizens and citizens." That's not true or you didn't do what it says here, but you promised, and that's why it's our job to point that out. On the 56th page of this Coalition Treaty, you have stated that the integrity of the implementation of regional policy will, inter alia, be based on the principle of partnership in the form of cooperation between the State and local communities. On 11 March 2003, Mr Rop said: "Regionalisation is the LDS electoral promise" - so we will not go through this. I wonder why the Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List and Mr Pohorec have not supported the proposal for a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development prepared by the Minister, Mrs Kovaceva, and, by the way, is one of the better laws which, with some small amendments, could be a real law on regional development. There was no support for you because such a law was very specific, what you had already entered into the contract. But the minister was naive because she was not political: the professional was actually the only one in this government, and she wrote in this law: for the first time, that such a law would be a partnership between the government and the local community; that such a law would provide for a development contract between the development region and the country; that such a law would also provide for implementation plans. It is therefore stated in such a law that this new partnership will be based on real budgetary resources and, of course, not like now debate clubs. And individual ministries today can block the achievement of development goals by their inactivity. Therefore, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List, with Vice-President Pohorce, of course, you did not support this because you were afraid of specific matters. Moreover, this law even states that the law will introduce a regional scholarship scheme, regional incubators and technology centres. What's wrong with that? You were in the way! You don't want to, and you don't want to! And of course, what is now being done, of course, is far from these entrepreneurs in the region, is far from children, far from the needs of scholarships, far from the needs that are being sought - that is, young people and so on in the regions themselves. In short, these were your arguments, why not the law, not the regionalisation, the constitutional change, and so on, and you say we didn't want it. This law is the basis and even, as I have already mentioned, one of the better in this mandate, but it has not lived because it was truly professionally prepared. If we look at employment and the social situation in our area. Is the state really lying about the poor? According to official data, 14% of households are in real poverty in Slovenia and 60% are in informal, co-workers and colleagues. This is the product of your work. Ms Lidija Apohal wrote in the newspaper that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance increased from 35,000 to 44,000, so that funds for the social and vulnerable increased from 10 billion to 22 and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, this does not mean a social state, this means a poor country on the one hand and on the other hand some rich people, who are of course ultra, ultra rich. Of course, the following data from the Employment Service show that from 1991 to 2002, the number of employees decreased from 841,000 to 783,000, or the table pours children out of school and from there between the unemployed. In 2003, 36,000 inflows from schools and 18,000 in the unemployed army were forecast. Information, colleagues and colleagues, about the relationship between people who have lost their jobs and those who have received it is also very important. Last year or 2002 was 64,000 lost and 50,000 won. This means a negative balance sheet. In 2003 - 62,800 lost their jobs and 52,300 lost their jobs. So again, the negative balance of employment, because employment data is important, not unemployment data. The discussions that have been in this Parliament regarding motorways and so on - yes, should be made clear. We have now received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, from the Maribor Regional Chamber. When all the institutions meet, of course, they also meet because of the dissatisfaction of the people living along these roads, it is clear that Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Letters with Mr Ferri, who spoke so vehemently yesterday about the acquisitions of the highway programme in Prekmurje, is guilty because this highway programme is not in Prekmurje and in Styria. It is simply because these Members from here - and Mrs Possončev - did not decide on this, but rather decided on the more influential Members and Members from Ljubljana, Liberal Democracy and the United List. That's why it's like this. I have nothing against the bypass in Ljubljana, but I am sure that this is not the first priority, that the highway cross must be upgraded first, but not first, of course, the bypass. Mr Pohorec, I was glad that he said very clearly yesterday, or he was a little overwhelmed by the soul that DeSUS did not care about the matter, but it was about power. So he and they weren't meant to defend what they came for, pensions. In fact, by their presence they have done the worst they can to the pensioners. And in the end. The Minister for the Information Society, if you wanted to, you know, you could write in the law, not from the first privatisation, from the profit, from the profit you will return to those who built this Telekom. No, no, no. You're stuck in your pockets again! Of course, you're also preparing, probably, what for the election campaign and so on, because according to the data we've had, the Liberal Democracy is spending 20 times as much as it can under law. Well, maybe it's over. Madam Justice Minister, we were able to read in the newspaper on Monday how the Supreme Prosecutor was building without a building permit. I heard there's a building permit on the way. It is not surprising, however, if the Attorney General is doing so or if the prosecutors are doing so — he is angry with the neighbors. No wonder, because also in his defense, Minister Kopač said in 2002 about his alleged black construction, and he says: "This is not true. My building permit was legally valid in 1989, and the change in the building permit, which has not been substantially altered, is indeed not legal." So that's a reference to everyone else. Except, of course, those who have labs that have jobs, people who work and so on, and you tear down labs like that. So - equality before the law. Where are you going, my dears? And, of course, these things were spoken of by both opposition and former Members of the post. Mr Kangler also talked a lot about these matters and probably knows because he was with you for almost all seven years when you were in power together. Well, at the end of the day, I'd like to tell you just what they asked me to say or what my citizens and citizens called me for. On Ptuj's radio, Mr. Rope spoke, and then I was called from the Bocians, the Borovites, the Circusses, the Jursinians and so on. They said that Mr Rob said a lot of things, but one problem was what he said: he did not come between the workers and the workers and tell them how to live with 60 or 70 thousand. He didn't come and tell us how to live and create families with 120 to 140 thousand tolars. They said that we are really on European standards with housing prices, with food, with gasoline, with all the costs, but of course we are on Balkan standards with salaries. Whether this is what citizens and citizens want, they will decide in a month. I hope never again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The masters know how to turn each statement in their own way and use the position when you can't replicate it. But he does have a replica of his colleague Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Ambassador Pukšič mentioned me, but I don't know if I understood him correctly: "Member Kangler was also present in this government." That is true, but I would like to remind my colleague Puksic and everyone else who was in the opposition at that time, my party in the government, that I was also a rebel within the government, because of what some of us have said here, because we did not agree with centralisation, we did not agree with uneven regional development, and we also warned about some other things. Whether my position in Parliament has been in opposition or positions, and even in the future, if I get a mandate, my work in Parliament will work in principle. Although there is a colleague from Maribor who laughs when I say in this National Assembly that someone has a 2 billion 800 invitation, while the University of Maribor receives 45 million and the Minister of Defence gives me an answer – Mr. Minister of Defence, I thank you for the first part of your reply that certain things have happened in Maribor. But you didn't give me a concrete answer to the question why the University of Maribor only got 45 million out of 2.8 billion. You gave me the following answer: "The University of Ljubljana has submitted 76 applications, of which 19 were accepted, representing 25% of the project." I want to know how many of these 25% projects are worth 2.8 billion. Then you said, "The University of Maribor has submitted 19 applications and received 3 projects approved, which represents 16%." This 16% means 45 million for the University of Maribor. Where's the difference to 2.8 billion? That's what I'm interested in, and you didn't answer me. Also on this subject - this reporter who was hoping to write this information down. The Dean of Technical Faculty, Mr. Tičar, I said, is a respected professor, is also a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and is a member of the Municipality of Maribor, a city councillor, and strives to share these things honestly. But they didn't. That's not how they did it. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask the minister, because he didn't give me an answer to yesterday's question why there was a difference in the choice of the contractor of up to 140 million -- in the choice of cars to shut down in tunnels on Slovenian highways. Three times the Maribor company applied, three times the most advantageous, three times the tender was cancelled. In the fourth call they went along with the company from Lenart or Maribor, Domida. Due to administrative errors, 140 million were also cheaper than the other bidder - the other bidder was chosen. 140 million, Minister! For 140 million you did not select companies from northeastern Slovenia. You probably do - you sigh anyway, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who comes from those places, but it doesn't matter, and these are things that need to be done in a different way. So I also received another e-mail letter today, and I can show you that no one will think that I am bluffing, by a Maribor journalist, on this subject, why the University of Maribor received only 45 million - Minister of Education, Mr Gaber, did not respond to this reporter. And that's the way we can't work in this country. Sorry, we can't work. It's not working. Because in this country we deserve to live evenly, in accordance with all the rules and to have a quality life exactly the same. I do not oppose the development of central Slovenia, only you must ensure that we are equal partners. Even those projects that were in the centre of Ljubljana. And as I said yesterday, I did not get an answer, I did not get an answer, who and how is sitting in these commissions that are deciding on these development projects and investment programmes. And in the dark! And here, Slovenian policy should make a big cut to start these investment-based funds, when it comes to development projects, are distributed evenly across all universities, across all those segments that are justifiable in any way. Dr. John Lagich, Denis John Lagich comes from Maribor, has also applied with some of his projects. Nobody's spying on him! At the same time, he's being intercepted by the U.S. government. For the U.S. military, he is a good, good professor, good expert, he has programs, he has patent programs, he seems to be able to perform for them, for our Slovenian government, for Slovenian commissions, who decide who should be selected with some development tasks and investment projects, but he is not good. There is probably only one problem - this professor, Dr John Lagich, whom I well appreciate, also Mr Tičar: it would be quite different with my projects and programmes "driving through" if I taught at another university than in Maribor. There is also no problem with these projects and those professors working on these projects when they apply in Brussels for certain development programmes as well as certain funds. They're being investigated, and their programs are being revised. As long as these programmes and calls are being revised by those who simultaneously report their applications through their university - this is unfair competition and this is not done. That's the problem. And as this centralisation of the monopoly in this area, the educational field, is also reflected in all segments of either the policy, or the economy or everywhere in the part where the government and government institutions decide. This will in some way have to be done in the future - whatever government will be in power - in the Slovenian political space and ensure equal opportunities for everyone, whether they come from Ljubljana, from Kopra, from Murska Sobota or from the University of Maribor. And this is the meaning of Slovenian policy for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u92	Thank you. My colleague, Janko Weber, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Interpellation of the work and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been submitted by opposition parties, would, of course, have credibility if we did not know the work in this mandate, as well as some steps that have been prevented by most votes at some point. In particular, I have one point in mind, specifically on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Lands. Remembering these discussions and recalling the fact that, by amending this law, agricultural companies wanted to prevent them from continuing to rent or landowners, of course, this is one of the undue problems, such as the obvious why the government has allocated funds to Revoz. In the event of the adoption of the law, as proposed by the opposition party since today, 30 agricultural companies employing 3,200 workers would be at risk. And if we make a brief comparison. For example, Revoz, where 700 new jobs will be sought directly at the company and 500 from suppliers, it is necessary to obtain an external investor that will provide EUR 400 million in this case - and the government will of course try, or the Republic of Slovenia will try to cooperate here with 10% of the €40 million grants. So 1,200 jobs would require a billion and 200 million jobs, or 1,200 jobs require 400 million euros, and if we made a rough comparison with the 3,200 jobs that were threatened by the adoption process at the time, we would need a billion and 200 million euros to solve this problem. In short, twice what is needed today to successfully save, such as Revoz. And only this information in fact, in my opinion, puts the entire interpolation at a completely non-creditable level, because these difficult remedial effects could not be eliminated even in the next term, let alone in this. For this reason, I believe that interpellation is indeed entirely unfounded by the applicants and that we can be satisfied that we have managed the situation as coalition parties in a way that can successfully develop and maintain 3,000 jobs in 30 agricultural companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u94	Thank you. My colleague Matjaž Falkner has the floor. There's no time. A colleague of Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u96	Excuse me. Excuse me, Comrade Sušnik. I made a mistake, and I have to fix it. My friend Ljubo Germič instead of Maria Gasparini. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I join the opinion, which has been expressed here several times, that, of course, interpolation at this time, at this pre-election time means an unusual matter. For I am convinced that the pre-election time is the time in which we must make a credible decision before the voters with concepts, on the basis of which arguments the voters and the electorates can then make a credible decision as to who they will trust in the next term. Of course, I would like to make it clear here that interpellation does not seem unusual to me, because I would have any dilemma, that in September we would not have earned our salary with work, and I am sure that, as for me, my fellow Members and colleagues from my Group of Members, as well. But when I read the interpolation, I can't help but feel that there are many flat-rate accusations, incorrect allegations, and, of course, I was very pleased when I read the very extensive material that the government presented in response to the "argments" [[In noodles]] , which have been entered in the interpolation and, of course, has a reasoned answer to what has been done in these four years. Of course, in my address, I would like to touch two things that I would like to explain a little more precisely. First of all, I would like to touch on the general statement or accusation of LDS, which is intended for the area of clientism and corruption. I was very encouraged when the discussion turned right into areas where some of us are members of certain societies, presidents of societies, presidents of unions, that is, representatives of a civil society. Of course, it seems very important to me that civil society, which in fact belongs to each of us, is an important element of the construction of this society. And I find it unfair and sad that politics is being introduced into this civil society. Because there is no way that I can accept this accusation that as the president of the I. Pohorski Battalion, which I have been running for 23 years, of which I have been a member for 35 years, would be burdened when I return to my environment to do so because of customerism. For I was given suggestions both before 1991 and even after 1991, when there were also proposals to change the name of this society. Of course, I fought hard both ways. It seems to me that policy messages are very important and, of course, the duty that lies within us and before us is to create trust among people; trust that we are capable of talking to one another. From this point of view and from this point of view, of course, I thank Mr Janša, who responded to the invitation and joined the friendly football game in Ruša, because the questions I received were how the LDS and the leader of the opposition could play football together in one team. Of course, it seems to me that this is a very important message, a message that we can talk about each other when we are not talking about political issues, that we can be friends at the time. However, speaking of my environment, it seems very important to me to say that, of course, we are an environment in which we have experienced a great deal of shocks after independence, since we have been an environment with a great degree of unemployment. I must say that with the measures taken by this Government, we have taken great steps forward, through the measures taken by the Government and confirmed by this Parliament - for example, in the field of active employment policy. This Parliament has adopted legislation on education that has allowed investment in our environment, and this Parliament has adopted a housing policy that allows the construction of ten housing units in our environment, we are building roads, we are building municipal infrastructure that is enabled through the calls proposed by this government. And if we find that this is possible in municipalities where none of the mayors is a member of the LDS, then we have evidence that they can also go where they are not. [[under the nickname]] "these links" must only be a member or a member card of the LDS in order to guarantee certain investments. Another area that I would like to address briefly is health. So, there are a lot of incorrect indications in interpolation that show a negative picture in health care. There is a crisis of governance, lack of vision, dissatisfaction by users, lack of trust by operators, partial breakdown of the health system and so on. Of course, there are many arguments that this is not the case. I will only make two arguments, i.e. the area of waiting periods, which has been mentioned here many times. By rationalising the health system, we came from an outdated system after a day of care by a comparative group of savings, which, of course, we allocated to new programmes. And of course here I would like to point out once again that the waiting types of operations - that is, that the number of operations in the open, although almost doubled the operations of the grey eclipse has tripled since 1999. And we could also list how health movements were achieved. Yesterday's statements by my fellow Member Tsukjati have been re-examined by a number of Slovenian hospitals, whether they actually hold to the facts that indicate that, for example, waiting periods have increased in the area of hernia operations, gallstones and so on. Of course, I can say that nowhere in the hospital, but I checked at least ten of them, I didn't get that kind of information. When we are talking about increasing healthcare funding, we certainly need to mention investments. Investments are certainly one of the achievements of this ministry, as there has been a great start during this period, and many times the funds have been increased compared to previous years. And of course, now that we are talking about concepts that, of course, we should talk about at this pre-election time, we can of course say that the rapid comparison between the White Paper guidelines, which, of course, has always been criticised by the opposition and everywhere, and between the starting points that you offer in the programme, there are certain differences. In LDS, we never talk about health care being not a difficult area. I am convinced, however, that only an attempt by the opposition to delineate the role and importance of activities within the Ministry of Health's actions without arguments, a path that will not give rise to arguments. I am therefore convinced that we deserve the next mandate and that we will carry out a health reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u98	Thank you. A colleague of Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers! Once again, I will try to draw attention to the dire alarming situation in the area of agriculture and rural areas. I have drawn attention to the situation in Slovenian agriculture, but unfortunately the government's perspective, the majority perspective in this National Assembly is obviously limited to some space, the view does not reach the outskirts, does not reach 75% of Slovenia's surface, where terrible, severe, far-reaching and extremely fatal and irreparable mistakes of Slovenian agricultural and regional policies occur. I call on Minister Pogačnik to take 500 metres from a regional road, for example to the Štjurje hill or to the Zavaje hill, to the slopes of Menina mountain. Last but not least, colleague Bozič plastically presented the consequences of the situation in agriculture and rural areas through the admission to primary school in Posoč and in the valley of Trebuša. All too empty and abandoned farms, no more cultivated areas in these areas and the key problem and failures of Slovenian agricultural policy, unfortunately even in the last four years, show that this policy has not found an answer and a way to prevent the unrestrained deterioration of Slovenian farms and the unrestrained deterioration of the Slovenian countryside. In the 2000 report, which we discussed in the National Assembly, we found that in the first ten years of Slovenia, about 30,000 farms have collapsed, with some 86,000 farms in Slovenia in 2000, of which more than 43,000 have grown two or less large livestock, indicating that these farms were actually small. And this is, in my opinion, the essence of this problem, that the policy did not recognize that the government did not recognize the Slovenian specialities, the Slovenian fragmentation, and that with this lack of knowledge you went into negotiations and the preparation of a number of sub-laws and regulations that have been adopted in the last four years. You have boasted of 24 laws and 922 regulations, which are generally stricter and impose incomprehensible and incomparable standards compared to our neighbours, Austria and Italy. In this way, you have further exacerbated the conditions of farming, especially those of medium and small farms, and have deliberately accelerated the decline of these farms and the emptiness of the countryside. Otherwise, I cannot explain this to myself because it is incomprehensible that anyone who would recognize and see this situation in the area of Slovenian rural areas could not continue to practice this practice. That is why I call on you, Mr Minister, to go look at this; the situation has not been detected by thousands of your employees and thousands of others who have been employed during this period in other institutions which are supposed to deal with the problem of agriculture, but despite this abundance, there have been no answers to the key questions of Slovenian agricultural policy. More!The key people who have developed agricultural policy in the last period were more concerned than with their personal promotion and enforcement, I stress once again, applying solutions that are completely incompatible with solutions in neighbouring Austria and Italy. I'm asking you if you have a record of how many farms have collapsed in the last four years, how many homes have been emptied. And secondly, because, I think we should answer. Due to the impossibility and the increasingly difficult economic situation of the Slovenian farmer, there are growing numbers of farms where the hosts cannot and cannot get the housewives, the elderly, there against Abraham and continue to torment themselves on farms without any perspective, without every perspective and all these farms are doomed to failure. They are also doomed because you failed to implement the specificities of Slovenian agriculture during the integration phase into the European Union. That's what we should do. This was a key task and challenge of Slovenian agriculture policy, which unfortunately has been completely lost. We could talk about a whole series of problems, and I will not point them out on purpose, and I will not point them out on purpose, because the agricultural issue has been said extremely much in the last period, extremely much. Unfortunately, however, not all the words came across the ears, which would listen to the problem of Slovenian rural and Slovenian agriculture. Some hope led to the appointment of a special ministry for regional development, but when we adopted that mountain of regulations and all the reforms related to the establishment of a new ministry, it was clear to me that this flour would not be bread. No movement in the direction that would stop markedly negative trends in this area. I think that in any way we should have a programme of rehabilitation in the field of agriculture, but with such and similar programmes there is neither spirit nor hearing. You are relentlessly pursuing your goal, it is to have five thousand farmers, but all the rest you are acting on, and this is the worst, you have decided to declare as a reserve for the bear and for the wild beast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u101	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Mr Sušnik, I respect you because you are a very good farmer and it is a little surprising that you are looking at the future of Slovenian agriculture in such an extraordinary way. I'd say next. In order to find out, however, that certain things have changed at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and that Slovenia has been relatively well prepared within the scope of the possibility, it has also been preparing in the field of agriculture. I agree with you, absolutely, that the problem of fragmentation is still that of Slovenian agriculture and on which much work needs to be done. Therefore, I think it is very important that we actually find out - indeed, what you have said is that in the last six years the number of agricultural holdings has decreased from 90,000 to 77,000. However, this is only in the category of farms up to 5 hectares. Since 1997, the percentage has decreased and is approximately lower in this category. However, we can look at other categories in an encouraging way, these are categories from 5 to 10 hectares, where the share of agricultural holdings has already increased and more in categories 10 to 20 hectares and 20 to 50 hectares. However, in the first category it is 50%, about 50% of Slovenian farms. So there are restructurings that have actually been encountered everywhere in the European Union, and of course also with us. I would also say that the data are not that bad, as the average size of Slovenian farms has increased by 23% since 1997 and is now 6.3 hectares. This is 1.5 hectares more than in 1997. This strongly points to restructuring, and this is what I think is most important to me, this is what the real trends are going up. Pre-accession negotiations have taken place and I would say that we have taken advantage of all the opportunities Slovenia has given. In addition, I must say that this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have helped the province to do so, because it has contributed as much as 60% of the national budget for agricultural support, which now amounts to 85% of those received by the old members of the European Union. These are good trends. It is also the period after May 1st. There has been a lot of work to be done here, but we have actually successfully prepared a 2004-2006 rural development programme worth €323 million, of which €281 million will contribute significantly to the regions you are talking about. It is not irrelevant that Slovenia is in 85% of a country with low production capacity, but this is not exactly due to negotiating points. Certainly, the materials were well prepared. This is simply the fact that Slovenia is geographically very different and, of course, also climateally very different and that this is what allowed us to enter this category. And it is important to worry about Slovenian agriculture that we really take advantage of all the opportunities that Slovenia gives us in this area. And in evidence, and to conclude, because my time is very limited, I would say so. In fact, the size of agricultural land in use has not decreased. If this was 424 thousand hectares in 2000, 465 thousand hectares of agricultural land were in use in 2003. This is said to be the case, the extent to which agricultural land is used does not decrease. Slovenia takes care of agricultural areas. But it's true that there's been a restructuring. And I agree with you that there is a need to find a programme of complementary activities for those small farms where this could mean survival through complementary activities. And it's about the superstandards. In the case of superstandards, of course, we have made an intense effort to bring all the superstandards, those that restricted agricultural production, into the framework of Europe, and the last such regulation will be issued in September, which will allow for the slaughter at home and the use of processing, the production of meat at home in the form that the European Union permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u102	Thank you. My colleague Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u103	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues, respected government, all those who follow us on TV screens and radios, all have a nice day, rain and our Members in spite of it! All the serious indications contained in the interpolation were answered and not generally, but reasoned, equipped with concrete data and evidence, I believe that the answers, which were also understandable and convincing to anyone who knows and wants to listen. Behind us is the mandate, which I also consider to be very positive, although my entry into NATO, as you know, has not been particularly exciting, and if any minister in this government has been weak, today he is no longer in the government, but is strengthening and noble of your kind, respected interpolators. For me, personally, the worst member of this government was the one who, throughout his ministry, was all the more brilliant in regulating the situation with Croatia, and worse for me, cheered for moves that could increase what you call an international weight, but only by the side of the first world power and as her servant. Among the messages addressed to the government in the Defence chapter, if you have read it, it is also the one to quote: "Slightly, decisively and clearly respond to new initiatives and opportunities that could strengthen Slovenia's position in the international community." These new initiatives and options are not highlighted, but taking into account your views and responses to the most pressing international issues, especially those on crisis hotspots, your position in particular in the wake of the US Allied attack on Iraq, your advocacy of the Slovenian approach to the villa declaration even when it turns out that it was based on lies, your new sympathy for everything that the United States of America is doing, makes me conclude that the flight manifest from this address to the government is mainly because Slovenia has not placed itself in a group of so-called "war States" and is not in Iraq. The latter is a circumstance that I personally consider to be one of the greatest successes of this government. By the way, when you applauded the President of America's decision to settle with Saddam Hussein, you should know that this story will also affect the sense of the global economy and that we will also have a smaller economic growth than planned in 2000. Today, however, you attribute responsibility to the government. The fact that we are not in Iraqi chaos is a "vis-a-vis" trend that we witnessed at the villa's statement and other wishes of the Bush administration, a special achievement. It is very important for the public to know that our electorates and voters know and understand what this means. Perhaps the disappointment of the outgoing American ambassador, somewhat conditionally speaking, is a smaller international weight than you understand the interpolators, what kind of money from Washington is less, but much more peace, much more security and much more international reputation. Let's look at Italy, see Spain before it decides to withdraw its units, Korea, the Philippines, Nepal, Turkey and so on. Well, if my conclusion is wrong, tell me that you are happy too, that Slovenia is not willing and that our boys are not in Iraq. At the end of the day, thanks, however, for remembering the second track and coast guard, but this is a project that we conducted when you didn't even think about it, even less supported it. So this government deserves full support for the work it's done, and your interpretation was irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u104	Thank you. My friend Janez Janša, as the first-signed proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u105	I would like to respond to some of the particulars that have been given here very briefly. As far as the coastguard and the other track are concerned, we can only think about it and suggest that you who are in power should do so. You promised that four years ago, and none of this was done, as we just heard, you're still thinking about it. I don't think they elected you to think, but to do something. As for the Vilnius statement, I propose to the members of the government's coalition to ask the Prime Minister - if the government has done so well or wrong - what he was doing at the meeting of this group in the White House on 29 March 2004. Mr. Rob went to the White House for an invitation received by members of the Vilnius Group [[Only representatives of these countries were there]] And he was happy to take pictures in this group. And we haven't heard from anyone in the United States protesting this. I also propose to the members of the government's coalition to ask the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, what he has promised the President of the Danish Government on his last visit to Denmark. There, Mr Rob promised the President of the Danish Government that Slovenia would send its troops to Iraq under the Danish contingent as soon as an appropriate resolution was adopted in the United Nations. The resolution was adopted, the Prime Minister made a promise on an official visit and I do not know what is going on with it. Government Members here say how pleased they are that the soldiers are not in Iraq, but the Prime Minister has promised to do so on a visit to Denmark. So whether they will be sent there, according to the Prime Minister's promise, or whether we have a Prime Minister who in the official international public is wasting false promises that the state will not then fulfill, and thus we are wasting our credibility. I therefore refer the question to the Prime Minister, with this promise made to the President of the Danish Government, that Slovenia will send troops to Iraq within the Danish contingent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u106	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u107	A brief replica of the coastguard and the second track. Look, this is a project that was put by this government among the priorities. And that is a great achievement after years when no one has done anything. It is true that both projects were covered by the People's Party, which has covered transport and maritime activities so far. However, concrete results have been coming from the moment the People's Party joined the opposition, as the current Minister has finally indicated the dynamics, ways and means of implementing these two projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u108	Thank you. There's a colleague of mine, Max Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I wrote down something for myself, and this should apply to everyone who spoke before me, and to those who would also speak after me: a thousand wise men cannot answer a single stupid question. And because these days people are mostly wondering, just like those who are writing, like those who are reading and listening to why this interpolation is happening. The answers I see are two, one is to start the government's reputation, but if not, then at least "hinder" people's policies to the point that they say "in fact, they're all the same, we're not going to vote." This is the second effect the opposition would wish to achieve in this case. But I'm sure you counted. Why? Because that's what Nietzsche said: "The problem that doesn't break you strengthens you." And I'm sure the coalition will be strengthened after this meeting. When I was preparing some sort of inventory these days about my work, and I took into account or wrote about what it was doing and where I was involved, of course I could not shake the feeling that I was boasting too much. And I remembered this Slovenian river: "Thank you very much under the table of waves." Because that is the case, and because we are all Slovenians, in my view, on a similar hoof, as far as this is concerned, we must be grateful to you, everyone who wants to get a competent government, to the interpreter, because you have given the opportunity to the government to be competent in dealing with your flat-rate assessments. Even more, I'm sure you've literally been hit in some grades. You really can't tell me that I'm uncritical of the government, even less to individual ministers. After all, you can remember that when Master Rob proposed to the government, after President Drnovšek went to second place, I did not support those governments alone. Though I'd be in his debt as a Stoner, and I still owe him. In fact, he personally assured us that when the floods were in Kamnik, we repaired and repaired the home of the older citizens, that 480 people in the Titan found themselves without work when the owners demanded it. And that ZUIM, for example, will experience its complete restoration in the coming years. But since I didn't think it was possible to accept an apology from the Minister of Economy or a candidate for the Minister of Economy that she was not objectively responsible for the things that were happening in the ELAN, it was those crazy awards, if you remember, I did my own thing. This government suit, however, I must say that I trust it because it knows that it does not believe economic wizards who believe that Slovenia could only live from translating balances from one pocket to another or from one company to another. The middle layer problems will not solve such an economy. Building production capacity, where thousands will work, is what can bring more employment opportunities to this layer, and thus opportunities for a more carefree future. No family will be more numerous, no personal hardship ending in suicide is prevented because we're talking here. Even less if you're discussing it at a golf game in Mauritius. Better employment opportunities, more opportunities for housing and similar favourable circumstances can lead to people in distress knowing that they are not alone. Now, let me draw attention to those who listen to this or watch it and you are here at one of the segments of our work. Here you spit, for example, the pay system in the public sector. On the contrary, he is all praiseworthy, but all of this has been commended. He is commendable because we can see how he came about. He was formed in an agreement with the social partners, he was negotiating a union, the government, and he was formed here in Parliament. You're ashamed of yourself, I'll say it directly, that you were there, or that we were at the public hearing, when we were considering this law, only five, so I won't mention who. And next, I will say that the judiciary, where you have the most comments with me, is also changing and changing for the better. And if I say so now for the conclusion, how much are you actually screwed up or how bad are you doing your job? Look, Dr. Bernick is on pages 1-13, you'll find this magnetogram of his, talk about no one doing anything about the extrajudicial killings. He may be ashamed, from page 28 to page 33 of the report, of this joint report on the work of the State Prosecutors' Office in 2003, to read carefully what is done, how many exhumations and so on. That's the first one. Second of all, look what Puksich said today. He talked about social rights and things like that. On the other hand, he pleads for the Slovak way of capitalism, so to speak, for the magical 3 times 19. You know what that would mean: for the first time, we'd pay less those who are richer, we'd pay less in common money, we'd pay more for food and so on. That's why I said, I'm going to tell you one more example of how Mr Pukšič could have been perfected in his work, says that the Supreme Judge, who was allowed to work without a building permit, no, pardon the prosecutor, was a judge and that the law is the same for everyone, also says that she already has an action against her. The president has already acted. I'll say something else. To conclude how double-minded you are when you do these things, it also says that if one of the LDS mentioned in a newspaper that the police have criminalized him, of course, it is corruption, clientism and all sorts of "pigs". But if someone gets a criminal complaint a few times - here I have an anonymity and I'm sure the Cranian police will have a lot of work to do, and so is the prosecution - but then it's an ugly and evil instigation, that's all the story. Thank you very much. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u110	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u111	The only statement Mr Lavrinc has said is that this was the Supreme Judge, Mrs Miroslava Belic, who is employed in the administrative department of the Supreme Court and, of course, a moral issue is raised here. What did you do about it? For now, it's probably nothing. Which, of course, is not true, but it is not really how good and wonderful people live today in this country. In short, as bad as the vast majority of people in the demographicly threatened areas of Slovenski Gorica, Styria and Prekmurje live, she has not yet lived. And that's the result of your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u112	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Janez Janš, who I do not see. Next one has the word of colleague Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The electoral assembly convened by Mr Janez Janša with the signatories is slowly closing. So allow me to say a few words for the conclusion before you are likely to speak to a representative of the signatories and a representative of the government. First of all, as regards the statements made yesterday by Mr Kelemina regarding the constitution and the coalition, they are not genuine. I believe, however, that Mr Kelemina is more persuasive with his fists than with words and that people did not believe him as a whole. However, the United List was also on the Constitutional Commission, which adopted the new Slovenian Constitution in 1990 and I was its Vice-President. As for the functioning of the coalition, he said that this coalition had been in power for 12 years. Let him see who he was at the time. 8 years of the Slovenian People's Party, 4 years of the Slovenian Christian Democrats, and someone else who later stepped out of the government because the military had intervened in the civil sphere. So a simple lie doesn't tell. Second, what is the credibility of the simplest things. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what the first-graders can count, I think in the second half, it's like counting two-digit numbers, you couldn't count and you said that you had less time for interpretation as representatives of the coalition and the government. That's just not true. Sit down. Even if we count everyone you don't have as your opposition, they did, you had half an hour in total more time. That's, I hope you can count and you'll do it. And third, I would like to say, this debate has shown what the level and level of discussion is when the opposition speaks and when the government and its representatives speak. You beat one of them, you accuse the individuals, you tell the truth. Opponents who have been attacked speak with facts and arguments. I think in a 16-hour debate or as long as it lasted, this painting is clear. And I think it will also be clear to all those who, on your request, have been accompanied by a pre-election assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u114	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! Maybe one brief comment on my part first. Some colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party today presented themselves as rebels. Unfortunately, however, the rebels were only when the coalition treaty and agreements had to be broken. However, when it was necessary to lobby and draw ministers from the coalition government for sleeves and ask for money, they represented themselves as representatives of the ruling coalition. I'm one of those guys who belongs in the mayor's lobby in the National Assembly. And I must say that I am pleased that we have actually managed to retain in this mandate that the mayors and mayors will also be able to run in these elections and have the opportunity to be elected to this national assembly. In particular, because I think that because of the great knowledge of local interests and direct contact with citizens and citizens, they can maintain and defend these interests. And I'd like to talk about local self-government. With regard to the fact that I am pleased that the National Assembly and the ruling coalition have succeeded in stopping the irrational establishment of new and new municipalities in this mandate. Even those with just a few hundred souls, or those who cannot exercise and fulfill all their responsibilities. Thus, only one new congregation was established in this mandate, and it was a congregation that fulfilled all the legal criteria. In doing so, I think it is interesting, because we are also looking at the future, that the Slovenian Democratic Party programme explicitly states that they will support the establishment of new municipalities if they are in the interest of the population and provide at least minimal opportunities for normal operation. Well, that's the minimum I'm worried about, and I think it's dangerous, because the further fragmentation of local self-government, that is, the municipalities, would only weaken further. I would also like to talk about the relationship, dialogue and cooperation between the government and the municipalities. Mr Podobnik called on the government yesterday and relied on her to have more of this cooperation. I believe that this cooperation has changed significantly, and for the better, here is progress. For the first time, the municipality was given the possibility of direct and legally prescribed cooperation under the government of Rob in the formation of legal and sub-laws. This is good; otherwise it is not ideal in all ministries, but progress is evident. Both associations, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia have also become serious partners in the legislative process. The Chairman of the Magnificent Government. He also created a special consultative body with more than 30 mayors and mayors and representatives of associations. This year, on very dynamic, creative and both sides, I think we have met twice on very important meetings. In addition, regular monthly meetings of the management of the municipalities of Slovenia, which brings together more than 110 Slovene municipalities, are held with individual ministers. Together, we will be able to solve many problems and problems at this level. And if I finish, I think it's a government-mag relationship. Robbery to the municipalities and their associations has made great progress and shows a serious desire to cooperate, to cooperate, to take local interests into account and to be more important than it has been in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u116	Thank you. It's a replica, Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u117	Thank you. In this mandate, the municipalities feel like pastors in Slovenian politics. And that there's no misunderstanding, there's no merit in magic. Robbery to allow municipalities to participate in amending legislation. This is a change that has been recorded in the Local Self-Government Act substantially before the government was led by the Magi. Robbery. This statement by colleague Orzmova was not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u118	Thank you. A colleague, Pavel Rupar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Max Lavrinc gave me a wonderful tip about anonymouss, which are also said to be circulating in your species. I would like to refer to inequality because he mentioned that criminals would have a lot to do with those mentioned in these anonymities. However, let me say that I am aware of the contents of these and that I am surprised that Max Lavrinc can point out the rapid intervention of criminals in one, but we know anonymists, such as Jelek Kacin and others, who have also circulated all over Slovenia, even here, and to this day I have not heard a single word, nor prosecutors or police, to deal with these matters that have been mentioned, but they are far worse than what Max Lavrinc thought. And that's not the only equality in this country. Before the law, before other ratings or whatever you want, Slovenians are unequal, wherever they have no connection with ruling parties. I'll give you some examples. Let's just say these conjectures and these bluffs are mostly liberal democracies that sometimes go beyond reasonable limits. Congregations are also unequal. I am glad that the predecessor spoke exactly about the congregations, how some must try to show that they do what people want, in fact, what they need, compared to some who can do it, in a vehement way with their left hand. For example, I have in mind the Muta Congregation, where in the coming days one basic stone for school is supposed to be laid again, and I am very happy, because nine years must be a good school for everyone. However, the problem that I am experiencing is the problem of funding. You will build this school first in Slovenia on leasing, leasing, with all the thirsts and approvals of the Ministry of Finance, which means, of course, that all the other municipalities that had to show little less than cash that they were building these schools were in an unequal position, and you will be in debt to Muta for the next 25 years because of this project. I have all this information and it can be verified. Of course, it's not the only foundation stone you're going to install. In the Liberal Democracy and Government, there were no projects that would have been opened just before the present, just as you opened a beautiful plain in Prekmurje four years ago, I will say, an unusable highway, not before and not a single meter later. You have now run out of such projects, and of course you have thought of planting these stones or these foundation stones - I have read recently, Mr Rob planted one in some thermals, in the Kamnik municipality and so on. So, basically, you're out of arguments or facts to talk about how successful you are. Of course, when some things don't suit you - you have an excellent instinct, an awfully good, well-trained sense of public opinion - where you smell of a matter, you quickly remove it. I am thinking about the law on Triglav National Park, which would actually have caused the disaster of the pearl of Slovenia, and you have just removed it from the last reading, even the confrontation that should have been on one of your paid televisions between the two Members, who are constantly fighting for this matter, was cancelled or not at all, even though we were invited to the studio. Just like that, fantastic blef Bled, Bled and Brije, or Bře, as you say, Gorenjci say otherwise when we should sink it, so wonderful nature nothing for how many billions of years designed that it became there, where of course the congregation Bled, the inhabitants were self-initiatively collecting signatures, you sensed that perhaps this moment would not be wise to sink and somehow destroy it, is even the signatures of one of the liberals carried to the congregation, if you look at, here we have them, but he did not gather them, just put it there. Those who have adopted acts of liberalism there, to sink this area, you have now requested a constitutional judgment on your adopted acts, that is, a bluff from a bluff, something like that. You know, this reminds me very much of an investment in the municipality of Tržič recently made by Ultra, Mr Golobič, a liberal you know, who is your world president, there is a director, who placed a gas station in Tržič without staff, so this is the first pump in Europe in this way. For a long time, all of us, together with the congregation and the administrative unit, have worked hard to build this pump and see if, otherwise, with a permit that did not have the consent of the fire inspector, because of the fact that he forgot someone from the government at the time of marriage, the legal deadline to give consent, and, of course, if he did not get that consent, he automatically assumed that the pump had grown as positive. It has grown for a long time, and for a long time nothing has actually moved there, and in one week of March of the month in three days and three nights from carpets, grass, to pots of traffic lights, a wonderful thing. I said, Grega Dove, hat down. Until recently, so they wrote the price of oil, and yesterday it was said that it was 200 tolars for petrol and diesel 170, but you have already 20 times pumped the gasoline up and down again, but the petrol doesn't run there, it still doesn't run, neither one of this big company that received tens of millions of grants from the government has asked for a license, for a license. The pump is there today, otherwise beautiful in view, standing without function. It's like the Liberal Democracy. Nice scene, thenkin's village, everything looks nice, but it doesn't work. I've been reviewing the work myself, and I've been reviewing the internal affairs. Let me say that the Minister has responded correctly to 4% of all the evidence that the government is not supposed to make. Four percent responded to what was asked. 8% blamed the Ministry of the Interior's unfulfilled affairs on someone else, others being guilty. So all sorts. 7% of the answers are completely unrelated to the obvious. For example, the bracelet where you ordered the salad would tell you that the cabbage is the exact same thing and that what you want to buy looks something like that. 81% of this almost centimetre of thick writing is in relation to what no one has asked, after what is written here. So it's a complete scheming and it's a very bad, bad omen. However, these percentages aren't even that important, you know, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important. It's important to ask people, I don't know if they're satisfied with the price of textbooks - the school started today. Are happy children who come from school burdened with the tasks and systems they share with their parents? The point is to ask young families how they feel when their children are born, and they have no place to live. That's the point, you know, people have to ask if they're happy in health homes, in hospitals, waiting for sick and disabled for that checkup or medical services. Ask the workers whether they are satisfied with the pensioner’s salaries, whether they are satisfied with pensions, given what they have invested in pension funds for years and years. Ask them what their pleasure is. And then the students, where they settle in which centers, where they sleep in Ljubljana or Maribor or in Koper during their stay, during their studies. Do they not find the private rentals of these apartments too expensive? What government has enabled them to live better? Last but not least, ask people if they remember what the certificates were after the granting of the property of the state. Who picked them up for their little money? Finally, ask the farmers if they are satisfied. I don't know, just ask people whether they agree with this government or not. All the numbers, but everything else is purely simple bluffing and fair, and it's right that we told them that because we have to tell each other. Now ask them exactly how pleased they are and how they feel about the rule of Liberal Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u120	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! As Dr. Maramor himself, he would judge this matter by his professional salary with a negative assessment. For the opposition and for the political side with an excellent assessment. Because I'm talking about things that are written very flat and inappropriately. As an example, because I have very little time, I'm referring to the self-sector of culture, 2.9. The whole culture is designed for three sentences. The last sentence says: "A weak cultural policy in the area of natural cultural heritage and inefficient cooperation of the Ministry shows that even in the case of Kobilarna Lipica, which is already all of its own, especially in recent years, it has been a shameful failure." First, in 2002, a law on livestock was passed which defined lipicance as a Slovenian indigenous breed of domestic animals, which is under the special protection of the State. Secondly, Kobilna Lipicaje has acquired under that law the status of recognised breeding organisation, which maintains the original breeding book for lipicances. Thirdly, Kobilirna Lipica, a recognised organisation, has started to perform public service, professional tasks in horseback, and also for lipicans in private breeding. Fourthly, immediately after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, Kobalna Lipica was included in the European Commission's list of breeding organisations that maintain the original book for the horse of Lipica. Next, in a shameful manner, the government placed this number and this programme for the protection development of Kobilirna Lipica at its sixth regular session. The results of the public service operation were positive until 2002. In 2003, however, the deterioration of business results was mainly influenced by the concession fee from special gambling. Anyone who went to watch saw that the government at its 25th regular meeting had taken note of the business analysis, commissioned the public agency to draw up a business plan for the next two-year period, which the government had decided to give to the public agency 122 million tolars. So, as far as I know, and when I visited her, this mare is superb and we can be proud of her. Finally, between 2001 and 2004, Kobilarna Lipica received 1 billion 322,000 sit. And if you couldn't even get that data - you're writing such untruths, a bunch of them in here - it's very happy for us to be able to tell these things here. And the taxpayer's tax remains, so I'm guessing that this interpolation is a little sloppy, it's a bit of a mess, and it's gonna give someone else a headache because of this interpolation, and the taxpayers will stop. Since I am an old MP, I would tell you that if I were alone in the opposition, but I would ask the government at a public meeting, "why do you claim that the arms trade was only 10,000 German Marks, but the Madonna Commission did not finish its work in 1992-1996, the commission in which I was since 1996-2000 did not finish its work when Jerovsk's Commission 2002-2004 did not finish its work and when the arms trade, which does at least to the customers and reputation of Slovenia, is a great damage that the "perpetum mobile" of every election." Look at this: I counted 17 million marks in one night! It's in the paper. And the perpetuum cell opens. What did we, honourable Members, have to do with this? We talked here. What are public facts? The government, 10,000 German Marks, that says 17 million German Marks and is behind it. What Mr. Pinekyher said when the magnetograms went missing that he counted the money himself – remember those sums! He told me who had this cash register, told who he had handed it to. And then, he also said this to Jelinčič, who was carrying a bag of money into the minister's office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if anyone thinks with these manipulations that we are elected, I assure you they are not electives and voters. And one day this national assembly will have to gather so much courage and one day the public will have to know what was going on in this area. And that's why, government, I blame you for being a bad worker in this area. If they said the paperwork was destroyed, if they said you had nothing, I'd say thank you very much! So to you, the government, your own people – you tell us about 10,000 German brands, and your own people who are inside do these things. It's not all there is. And for that reason, I think it would be good for our interest to really talk about concrete things here, so that we can clear these things up to the end in my opinion. I'd say the next thing you know, someone who teaches and raises has to be raised. And I expect our great professor here to teach us about moral values to take this matter into account in his performances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u122	Thank you. My colleague Bogomir Zammernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find it difficult to understand such excitement that comes from the mouth of respected colleagues on my right, not only the latter, but also from some forerunners. Because if that were true, which is somehow, as you always express yourself, you are afraid that people would get into politics, then this meeting could be a good thing for you. For if all this beautiful iteration that is in here is enormous, in this pessimism, which is called the answer to interpretation, it is true, then the people know it anyway. Tell them, get in front of the people, everything is in the best order, you live – as it was, I think, yesterday – in India Kormandia, everything is in order, but the opposition should be on its own and alert to things that they think are wrong; and we say that they are, people know that, and therefore there is no reason to worry about your side. So you can probably invite us for a drink and say, "Thank you for doing this." But I don't know why he's so upset about it. 'Cause like I said, there's nothing in here that says anything's wrong, everything's fine. I don't know if I live in a different environment, or if I live among different people. I have people coming to me who don't fully agree, not completely, they don't agree at all. And they've been sending me since I ran this committee, countless letters, calls, appeals for the functioning of a state of law, which unfortunately doesn't work. But then yesterday I will see the Prime Minister's speech, which he did, and I will read it because I think he has to go to anals, in the history of his statements, because such statements are very rare and he says: "In the field of justice we are not satisfied with many things, and we have also expressed this discontent several times. And my assessment is that we have a programme to ensure greater legal certainty and greater efficiency of justice." These are the words of the First Minister, Mr Rope. That's very commendable. If you hadn't called a few hours after him, his minister would have completely demented him. And I'm going to read her words now, so obviously in this country there's something more fragile, and since colleague Janša brought VD 40 yesterday, it might be good to find some VD 40 here and fix this creak in the judicial system and in the government itself. Because the Prime Minister says there's something wrong, just like it should be. What this "marsik" is, a lot of people know, and if I had time, I'd be referring to these cases. His minister, on the same day, denies him in the same evening, reads her tapegram again: to remind you of the law on courts, the law on judicial service, the law on notariat, the law on lawyers, I will not read it all, it is huge, it also lists the 7400 square meters of new space that the courts have received - yes, very important for people who should be served by these courts who do not come to their right for decades. Go tell them that. Listen, we've provided 7,400 square meters for the operation of the courts, and now you don't care if the courts don't work. We have passed laws on notariat, on judicial service, I don't know anything else, but you still demand your rights - and what kind of people you are, you should be replaced. Since I said that these cases were very large, I would point out only one, because I see that I still have a minute of time and then I will leave the word to my colleague Sinisha. I was approached by one of the civil servants, who was greatly encouraged by the statement made by the Justice Minister when she urged people not to go to court. He says how can I not go to court, but if I can't get another right? He had to sue the state to pay him what was legally his. But we do know a way of doing things that has become too rooted in our government: you get a decision, and then you complain about it, and the complaint is resolved for a very long time, and ten years or more in court. And that kind of thinking, let's make a decision, and then let them complain, is too rooted. And this one says, when I got to the final, it's over the first stage, over the second stage, I went to this organ that made a mistake and said, and now pay for it to cost less the country. Pay off the rent. No, he's suing till the end. Of course, taxpayers paid more for this. This is not the only case, such cases are more, but as I said, I have no time to mention, because my colleagues Siniša Germovšku do not want to go through the calvary also his end, says Bovško, as the Savina Valley went, where the 12-year rule of LDS has been known since 1990, so there is still no road connection after the catastrophic flood of 1990. But I'll talk about it some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u124	Thank you. A colleague of Joža Ašić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u125	Colleagues, colleagues! My respectable colleague Maximilian Lavrinc, however, gave two possible reasons why this two-day session took place in the National Assembly, which is called an interpretation against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There's another one, very important. This is a pre-election performance by individual Members, who here some minutes ago even publicly slapped those of their fellow Members, say from Styria, with whom they will compete directly in future elections. Paul’s colleague could not pass through Mr Vuk, even though he did not appoint him. And that's one of the main reasons why we're here today for two days. Otherwise, this interpolation really is a strange thing, and the sessions have also begun strangely. I don't think I'm the only one who was very surprised to see Mr Janša with a VD 40 marching towards a pay phone last night. I personally thought it would oil us a little bit to make this bicycle of this Parliament run better for two days, but no, it was one such rather miserable attempt to show customerism in the Republic of Slovenia, on an article called VD 40. Of course, I don't think he did it, but something else worked. An extremely large commercial, free of charge for this article, produced by an American company. Maybe even a fly, two flies at a time, achieved this performance. Today, on all front pages of daily newspapers, VD 40 is the main attraction of the indictment against the Slovenian government. That's an interesting thing. When we also talked about clientelism and corruption a few months ago, it was somehow completely overheard, at least from those who are constantly accusing us of having, when, otherwise, today, Mr. Janša, by mistake, been appointed Director of Telekom, Mr. Podobnik, that his brother or company owned by his brother was dealing with some [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That wasn't customerism. [[...]] I don't think he really was. For, Slovenia is so small and we all have to do something and we are almost all related to each other, that we will suddenly have one customerism, if we will then, of course, accuse each other, at the expense of VD 40, which is really the article that every household and driver needs, but this cannot be the subject of an accusation against our Slovenian government. In fact, how can fellow Members of the former coalition feel, from the kind of SLS, when the current opposition, present colleagues constantly accuse them of failings in the judiciary, in the transport ministry, in agriculture. Nothing applies in these areas, which were led by your Members, whose domain was not only one mandate, even in the Bajuk time and was previously in the hands of the SLS. At the same time, this is nothing, and it is all our colleagues who have been sitting for two months and have filled the gap following the exit of these Members. So senseless accusations, pointless after a lot of things have really moved. No one has said, let's say that in the history of Slovenian governments, the Defence Minister Mr Grizold is the only one who has completed his mandate and that this may be the basis for so many things in the Slovenian Army to move to a better place. This is also claimed by the Slovenian Armed Forces, not only by us civilians in the Slovenian Parliament. Or that Mr Pavliha has prepared a transport policy within two months that has really only gone through the government's department, but perhaps the expert who, when he took up the secretary's position in the transport ministry, wrote this part of the interpretation and wrote it smoothly, there is no transport policy. He probably didn't realize that at least for a while he was responsible for writing it. I'll finish, and I'll leave some time to my colleagues. But I would also conclude as you all went into your roles and into your territories. It's unfair and unfair, and I think you're going to pay the price for those attacks on the New Town Revoz, which has an impact both on the White Land, the Dolenjska and the Posavia. Because also in Brežica we expect a major development in one of these companies, which works in the field of the production of automotive parts and so on. Thanks for listening. You didn't need this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u126	Thank you. A colleague of Siniša Germovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I have a short period of time, so I'm just gonna go straight to where Mr. Christmas ends. With the full hope that the minister will prosecute those responsible for the reconstruction of 1998 after the earthquake. This will certainly not happen, for now what he is doing is doing to cover up these mistakes and to cover up those responsible who have cheated and have not finally robbed the affected ones in this earthquake. All that is currently being done, these partial programmes are in fact intended not to reveal all the truth by 3 October and therefore there was no analysis and therefore no report. And people say, as a real citizen, all I know is that because of the collapse of this reconstruction, because of the wrong reconstruction, they destroyed my home and that I have a spider in my cage, the real money is gone. It is now happening only for some, those who have these five houses, while others, of course, are waiting until the end of September. And on Hill 32, after five weeks, the lady only met the commission, which then found that the house was still dangerous to stay. But after reviewing the documentation, the lady found that the roof had been charged twice. So she paid the roof for the renovation in 1998 twice. And I just hope that it doesn't actually belong in that area, that it can be a piggy, even a big one, but it doesn't necessarily be a crime. In short, if we move on, what's going on? In fact, there is total confusion and chaos and people are just watching. And they find that all things are significantly worse than they were in 1998. In fact, there is no money to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. There's not even a beat-up tolar and, of course, they're looking for other sources now. In 1998, they invented a chasm that was used to patch up budget holes, while from a social bank in Paris they granted people credits that made them bankrupt and, in fact, make them on the verge of survival. And the payments of these meals are terrible. Well, and now some editing houses – this year donors were invented. Of course, donors set conditions and will also demolish houses that are renewable, which are quite fine and which should not be demolished. However, since donor conditions are such that they also have promotions, they choose large - family houses, and no one there knows the criteria for doing so. People have a feeling it's some kind of lottery. In fact, at one house, when they refused, because they said that the house could be repaired, they went to the next door. And this neighbor was first found to be okay. In the meantime, two chimneys have been repaired, it is said, from this programme, which was designed as quick help – it is good to know that these chimneys will then be charged in later procedures, even though it has been announced that they will be free of charge. And in this house they fixed two chimneys worth a million tolars. And now the donors are going to crash and make a new one. This is just for an illustration of how the works are actually chaotic, completely disorganized, and of course people are surprised, they are very amazed and surprised at how it is possible that this is happening. As I mentioned, there's no money, there's no system source. There may be some numbers in the budget reserve, but liquidity, we know that they are not and that some budgets are already being spent in advance if we want all these accidents, where people are waiting to receive legal compensation. Now, of course, like we said, donors, then they're going to take people's insurance, or they're going to subtract from the damage they're going to suffer, and then they're going to electro [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They'll probably reroute. But all of this will not be enough for the events after 3 October, it is said, when there will be no money and when people are very worried about what will then happen to those who do not have this lottery, it is said that they did not come between these five objects and that now in this first wave, which is intended primarily to conceal the collapse of the 1998 reconstruction and the collapse of the state technical office. In addition, the law, which is so amended in fact only so that the errors of 1998 can be corrected by a hundred percent and others are not guaranteed much or substantially less or even by some individuals who belong to them only 35 square metres under the law, is already said that “you are badly written or will not be harmed”. I am sure that the investigations that show, and also for laymen, are very eloquent when methods of lending are being explored and it is found that they are being renewed without foundation, and some statisticians and commissions, when they assess, say how this is possible – of course, it will probably not be in the report. But I hope, in fact, that some on official duty will have to pay for these things, because what they cannot find has been charged 100% on a running meter. And now it is also such a feeling that the transition, as the minister said, to another system that is now more collapsing, is not simply because of the fact that such structures, which are very poor, cannot be fixed, but that the material evidence of a poor recovery from 1998 would be destroyed as much as possible. And I'm sure in just a few cases it's possible to prove that. However, it is also unfortunate that everything cannot be broken and that the evidence will remain, that it is difficult to get experts who hope to sign under certain objective facts because they come into contact directly or indirectly with the state technical office or with all the services, because opposition means that they can endanger their own future. In short, an area in which there is no doubt that this department and this government deserve a lot of play and a negative assessment is the area where the consequences of natural disasters are addressed, where, in fact, rather than solidarity and at least a little compassion, there is a predominance that there is actually an ongoing business, a big deal that needs to be paid, and then they cannot and are now many, many problems that no one is looking at and no one is around – because this analysis would be necessary not on September 30th and some report, but a thorough analysis that would conclude that there is also a lot to be corrected for. However, this will certainly not be the case under these circumstances. And the state technical office, if we read in an interview that the minister's eared the head of the state technical office to be nicer, that's definitely not going to happen. For the illustration. When the Civil Protection Commissions came to determine whether the facilities were habitable or not, it was the first question, "whom you are from, but you are from DTP," and they wondered why, "and if you are from DTP, you will not cross the threshold." Of course, from civil protection, they were allowed to assess whether the house was dangerous or not, these were the first commissions. In short, it's just an illustration of the reputation of a state technical office. I also invited the President of the Republic to set up, provide financial resources, a fairly strong professional team composed of a lawyer, a financier and a builder who will defend the affected from the state technical office to help them. For forcing and forcing them to sign contracts which they do not know, which do not even have all the elements to get to know them, is a practice which then means that people only become appalled when they find out what happened to them. And, of course, it's a very paradoxical and absurd situation to need so much help because it hurts, if it's not also legal writing or otherwise building skills, then it's the easy prey of a state technical office, and it's actually more than sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u128	Thank you. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Blaze Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u129	All the countries of this world are facing problems and technological economic and social development is solving some of the problems and new problems are emerging. This is a simple fact to point out, because at the time of this interpretation, when performing the opposition, a person could get the feeling that only Slovenia, in some imaginary foreign country, is facing problems of milk and honey. Indeed, facing problems in individual countries can be more or less successful, and it is right that the political opposition points to things that, in its view, are not right and the old ones that could be done better. The interpretation that we are dealing with is useless because its proponents are trying to make the impression that everything is wrong in Slovenia. This is simply not true, and such a way of criticising also does not help in solving problems, but only contributes to sharpening relations, focusing attention on unfair areas, and probably also contributes to creating a negative sense of policy among citizens and reducing willingness to participate in elections and referendums. What is actually important to people, more important than such or different interpretations, trends, interest rates or public financial surpluses or deficits, is the quality of life. However, the quality of life in Slovenia has steadily progressed after independence and is at a high level. On the basis of the figures that confirm this, the government representatives have said enough. Perhaps even more so can give insight into the life and work of the average German family, the average Latvian family or family, in any other European country. To talk, for example, about high wages in Germany, but to say nothing about the amount of rent for housing and other cost of living, this is nothing more than demagogy. Whoever has picked some concrete personal comparisons with abroad will only be able to admit in Slovenia most citizens are doing well. Unfortunately, there is no country in the world where all citizens are doing well. There are also people and families in Slovenia who are struggling to survive. However, we cannot solve their problem through sincere or playful emotional debates, but we need to continue to strengthen social policy towards a partnership that will encourage and support citizens. One of the most important components of the quality of life of citizens is the provision of quality health services in a way that reflects the values of justice and solidarity. However, if we examine the criticism of the health system of its operation, we can determine in interpolation that a large part of the criticism is aimed at allegedly too slow and not sufficiently extensive privatization of the health system. I personally understand the position of the Ministry of Health as favoured by the growing involvement of private resources in health care, but not in a way that would jeopardise the level of health services achieved for older people and for economically weaker ones. It is true that the government does not openly consent to the privatisation of health care that would result in the division of citizens into two groups, richer and poorer. The criticism of the health system is also flawed by the fact that it offers an alternative type of solutions that are on the one hand inadequate and, on the other hand, they are at odds with each other. It is easy to offer short-term waiting periods and other improvements without telling where the money is from. In its SDS programme, for example, it speaks of the need to increase healthcare funding, but in fact it gives healthcare a smaller share of gross social product than the current government manages to allocate to health. They say that health care would devote up to seven percent of the gross social product from public and 1.2% from private resources. This is one percentage point less than the current situation. It is possible to promise a reduction in the value added tax for health care, medicines and technical devices, but not to tell how to compensate for the budget shortfall. This is one percent less than the current situation. It is possible to promise a reduction in the value added tax for health care, medicines and technical devices, but not to tell how to compensate for the budget shortfall. It is easy to operate with half-truths in the area of road infrastructure construction. The Minister stated that 166.7 kilometers of highway will be built by the end of the government's mandate, not that these roads are already built. The Klanec-Ankaran section actually has two stages and will in fact be two separate handovers. So Klanec-Socerb and Socerb-Ankaran. Roads. The height of the toll. We all want to be as low as possible, but it has to be admitted, the tolls are lower than the Slovenian ones in Greece. Croatia, for example, is 20% higher than ours. The Minister correctly indicated that 37 billion tolars were allocated in the highway budget, while the difference between the estimated 122 billion tolars in the Dars programme was non-budgetary resources. Slovenian opportunities should not be sought by maliciously browsing the domestic yard, but in the field of cooperation in the cross-border application.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u130	Thank you. The word is given by the Minister, Master Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u131	Mr Germovšek had previously told so many floods and so many lies that I still have to answer a few things. See, in the 1998 earthquake recovery, 1,447 high - building buildings were renovated. Of these, 6 in this earthquake suffered structural damage as it should not have been. This means 4 mills about all of these objects. I, together with the mayor of the municipality of Bovec, who from the same party from which Mr Germovšek came, ordered special professional supervision to analyse what had happened at these facilities, and not only on these, we had several more analyzed. For to all of us, both the local community and the country, it is in the interest of clarifying whether there was anything wrong with any object in the earthquake recovery. And, of course, we will also publish the data publicly. Several times Mr Germovšek said that the state-technical office forced people into various things. The state technical office doesn't force anyone to do anything. It is there to help people and the earthquake recovery process, in my opinion, also leads organizationally and professionally well. It was Mr. Germovsky's threat. He likes to threaten people, especially in his local environment, if we are monsters here in Ljubljana. In doing so, I must say that I, in fact, am Chassocan, that these are my people, my neighbors who have broken houses, and I will live with them for as long as I live, and I am more connected with them, with many than Mr Germovšek. And, of course, I'm responsible to them and I'm committed to them. We have written in the novelty of the earthquake law as the right that everyone who has suffered injuries in 1998 and now has them again will receive 100% of the cost of rehabilitation reimbursed from the state budget. This is a right that is, after all, reprimandable. So to threaten, if, oh, now they're trying, they're really effective, they've quickly organized an earthquake recovery after the earthquake this year, and after October 3 they'll forget you, so it was sort of understood, it's twisted out of the vine. These are things that are provided by law and will be valid in any government, ours or any other. Of course, I am sure that if it is ours, the earthquake recovery will work as effectively as it does right now. Let me say that I am now back, so I was away for a while from a ceremony that was very pleasant, where we signed 7 contracts for new houses to be paid by various donors, Slovenian companies and, of course, there will be more in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u132	Thank you. He has a word, colleague Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna go through it because there's not enough time. It is evident that Slovenia is doing better in Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia, so that it can and could move faster, it is also evident and the government has acknowledged this. But to make things worse, it is also possible, and of course we are all aware of that. See, on average and without arguments to charge, the matter is very sensitive and can be taken seriously by citizens, citizens and citizens, as well as by the words spoken by politicians. It's very dangerous to talk about the overload of children in school. Quickly, parents or children can take this seriously and feel that they are working or learning too much if we are aware that knowledge is what will bring us, the Slovenes and the Slovenes, into the world and Europe, so that we can compete with knowledge only against many more powerful nations and nations. Look. Comparative data show, this is for 13-year-olds, this is for students and students in the 7th grade, and these are comparative data from international research, that among those who spend the least time teaching, fewer hours of education have 13-year-olds only in Hungary and Iceland, the same number of hours of study in Norway, in countries such as the Czech Republic, Portugal, Greece, England, Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Ireland, for example, have more time. Of course, we realize that it is not just the number of hours of instruction that is decisive. Oomembne is the quality of learning; content is important. Much work has also been done on the content since 1990 and the renovation of education has been of quality since 1990, and data have finally shown. See, since 1991 there have been 4.3% of people with higher education in Slovenia, in 1992 7.9%, that in 1991 there were 33,000 students who are now enrolled over 80%. For such a number of students and students it is very difficult to provide all the best and most appropriate conditions. In this area too, however, there is a great deal of commitment. In view of the answers that the government has given, we, Members and Members of Parliament, should not have to advertise and defend them, because the answers they have given are of such quality that it is not necessary for us to defend them. Yet, your speech sometimes goes beyond patience. You know for yourself that I've been patient and that I've never insulted anyone and listened to them, so I had to stop by. I'll leave time for the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u134	Thank you. Time's up, but there's only a few minutes left. Janez Komljana has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President. I too will stop at school because I find it very irresponsible and banal to talk mainly about the weight of backpacks, school bags, the burden of children. I think the greatest value is where children can acquire knowledge. And this has changed significantly over the last few years. I'll be specific and I'll talk about Koroška, given that there's not much time. In 1990 less than 60% of primary schoolchildren were able to attend secondary school in Koroška. Today more than 97% attend high school, all of them, not as it was ten or fifteen years ago, when 20% didn't go to high school at all. More than 97% of secondary school attends in Koroška. We also have higher education, we also have a higher education centre, and we expect to be able to obtain a higher education programme in a short time. In fact, knowledge is what will be the only competitive capacity of countries and nations in this common Europe. I think we have done very, very much in this area. I had the opportunity a few days ago to watch Croatian television where our minister sat next to the Croatian minister and three others. I listened to this debate, and I think I'll say it right that he was almost embarrassed in the end, that he took a little to defend his fellow Croatian minister. It was shown as if nothing was arranged there, but everything was there. We have been included as one of the most regulated school systems in Europe, and I think we are. I can also make sure that we have a very educated youth in Koroška today, which is included in both the high school programmes, where almost 40% of the primary school population is already reached, which was only 22% back. And, of course, we also have every opportunity to catch up with other regions, and knowledge is the only way to do that, and we have also developed faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u136	Thank you. Given that time has run out, I cannot give my word to registered colleagues and colleagues. Procedurally, mate Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that the Slovenian Liberal Democrats have given 90 minutes of their time to the government, I would like to announce that I will present my debate for the Magnography in writing. Thank you very much. Written debate on the interpretation of the work of the Government of Slovenia - EPA 1460-III. In my performance, I intend to touch: 1. Inaccuracies themselves and therefore misleading data in almost all the tables you provide in interpretation, which are therefore misleading to the public. On the 4th page of point 3, this is a misstatement of the level of inflation. Clearly, the actual inflation published in July at an annual level of 4.2% does not fall within the context of the essence of interpretation. On the same page, incorrect data are given in Table No. 1 on GDP growth. The correct information is as follows: year % 2000 30.9 2001 2.7 2002 3.4 2003 2.3 2004 [[1.-3.]] 3.7 If the exact figures were given, your story of lower economic growth would not be sustained either. Tables 2 and 3 are missing data for 2004 [[annual inflation rate in July - 4.2%]] and 6.7% unemployment rate in 2004. Because such favorable indicators would have been rejected by such small interpolation you do not deliberately mention them. For tables 4 and 5, on page 5, they are taken as starting points for those years which correspond to the applicants, not the period referred to in the interpretation, that is, from 2000 to 2004, and that would be the only logical thing to do. You also say that there is a constant increase in public sector wage expenditure. This is completely understandable in the case of real annual wage growth with the same number of employees. Especially because you stated in both written and oral explanations that wages in Slovenia are too low. And if it were as you put it, wages in Slovenia in the public sector would have fallen in real terms in the last 4 years. Of course that's not true. To talk about the fact that public sector wage spending in the total amount should be falling and net wages rising is a complete distortion of the public, because this is simply not possible mathematically. And that's exactly what you, your well-respected proponents say. Let him know who can. Nor does the claim set out in Table 8 on page 7 hold that the expenditure on pensions is decreasing, although the number of pensioners has increased significantly. The figures given in the table show exactly the opposite that due to the increased number of pensioners both in absolute and in real terms the pension has grown in the last 4-year period. Although you have indicated that these data are in Table 8 at % of GDP, this cannot be seen in the table. Table 9 on the same page contains incorrect data on the state of debt of Slovenia for 1995, 1999 and 2003 [[Although you already mentioned another number in the introduction, it was also not correct]] . Whether it is a copy error or an intentional misdirection I leave to each of us. Table 10 on page 8 lacks a table on the net indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia from which the trend or trend would be seen. we would have concluded on the actual level of the debt. Table 11 also has the same deceiving characteristic - only gross indebtedness of the State without actual repayments is taken into account. Debt balance. In section 1.3 of GDP, there is no GDP growth data, but you are talking only about % of GDP per capita by purchasing power, according to the average of all EU countries. In Tables 15 and 17, you even compared data on registered unemployment or Total employment with 1988 or 1987. Equalizing the total number of employees with a working population is completely unrealistic and can only be the result of ignorance and this is exactly what you did in Table 17 on page 12. The tax on the payment sheet was introduced in 1996 and not in 1994 [[page 13]] . It is also misleading to say that other Western countries do not know this tax. In particular, because you yourself deny your previous claim on page 15 in Table 22, which lists countries that know such a tax. And this table is in itself without any value, because we don't know what year the numbers in it are. [[unknown unit of measure]] and it is essentially a comparison - using a completely uncomparable methodology. 2. I've got a few words to say to the Income Act. This government has adopted and proposed a tax reform for the adoption of the DZ and, in this context, a relief or relief. a more even distribution of the tax burden among taxpayers in the Income Act. This will increase the income of the debtors with an average wage of 4% and the income of all taxpayers with up to 3 average wages by a low of 2.5%. And that's 82% of all taxpayers. Therefore, our situation is a significant burden on taxpayers' income. One more thing about the cadastral income tax. Out of about 500,000 taxpayers from the cadastral income tax, only around 100,000 debtors or 58,602 farms receive income subsidies. 94% of those receive a subsidy of up to 500,000 tolars, which is less than the total relief - 591,900 tolars. This means that the overall relief of the individual taxpayer is higher than the total subsidy received. In doing so, it is essential that only in 2005 will a quarter of such payments be included in the income base. That's four times less than the amount of an increased general relief. Such a payment would not be fully included in the income base until 2008 when our farmers will receive 100% of the subsidy according to EU rules. All calculations show that, given the increased level of general relief, 90% of farmers will not pay income from this title or tolar. With regard to the whole issue of agricultural taxation in the new Income Law, it is necessary to provide accurate information that all the wishes and requirements, both the KGZS and the Slovenian Farmers' Union, were taken into account in 2004 on the new way in which the cadastral income was calculated, since the DZ has already adopted these amendments. But I'm very surprised that today no one listened to the radio reports and mentioned a significant increase in all those salaries to 165,000 tolars. [[It's about 40 percent of all wages.]] which have increased, if you have forgotten, that a good month ago we changed the Tax Act to a payroll. 3. And there's something else about building a highway on the MB section of the Hungarian border. It is popular and popular to mislead the public about the preparation of documentation for these sections, and forget to say, dear colleagues from the SLS and NSI, that in the past period individual mayors went even so far as to try first to buy land from farmers on the envisaged AC route when they failed, or some even pushed them out of their backyards, but have always given new initiatives for new variants of individual sections. The years ran and it was not until this year that the motorway route was finally determined on some of these sections. This is also one of the essential reasons for what you are saying, delays in the construction of AC. Forget to say or not like that the government has responded so quickly to the very increased freight traffic on this road and, in accordance with procedures and legislation, has accelerated the production of documentation and the fastest possible construction of this part of the Slovenian AC cross.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u138	[[Written debate on the interpretation of the work of the Government of Slovenia - EPA 1460-III.]] One of the main arguments in the interpretation cited by the opposition in the defence area is that the government coalition is not prepared to carry out an appropriate and comprehensive reform of the entire national security system, in parallel with NATO and EU membership, which have changed the Slovenian security reality. That claim may mean two: whether the interpreters knowingly refuse to acknowledge the actual situation and events of the past four years or attempt to mislead the public with such claims. During the period considered, radical, large-scale and substantive reforms in the defence area were launched and are under way. The fact is that these reforms take place in particular in the defence system, and not in all parts of the national security system, which we understand in a broader sense, as defined in the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by Parliament in 2001. At the beginning of the period under review, comprehensive analyses of the state of defence were made and, on this basis, a resolution on a national security strategy in 2001 identified strategic objectives, conceptual solutions and development guidelines in all areas of national security. After that, we have established a modern understanding of national security, which is national security in a broader sense. It would therefore be totally unrealistic to launch at the same time reforms in the defence system, in the security system, in the system of protection against natural and other disasters, in foreign policy and in other segments of national security. Such an approach would have already been condemned to failure. It is therefore essential that we have carried out the reforms in a gradual, planned manner and are therefore also successful. In the past period, it is precisely because of such an approach, which has been the result of a joint appearance of the position and opposition in the National Assembly, although the latter is now clearly renounced, that we, inter alia, have ensured the credibility of our country in the integration processes of North Atlantic integration. Instead of continuing changes in the implementation of defence reforms, too high and unrealisticly set targets, most of the commitments to the Alliance remained unrealised and this is exactly what we have changed for the period under consideration. The National Assembly also has an important part to play in this regard. Thus, we have almost unanimously adopted the resolution already mentioned on the RS National Security Strategy 2001, the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces 2001, amendments to the Defence Act 2002 and 2004, amendments to the Military Duty Act 2002 as well as amendments to the law on the provision of funds for basic defence development programmes 2001. I pay particular attention to the amendments to the Defence Act, which require a qualified majority in the National Assembly. These documents regulate the substantive, material and other issues of defence reform, determine the dynamics of implementation of reforms and so on. At the end of our term of office, we also adopted a resolution on the overall long-term programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which, following the entry into NATO and the EU and the state of play in the implementation of defence reforms, sets out guidelines and solutions for the further implementation of these reforms, in particular with regard to the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This programme is in line with NATO and is an integral part of the development of allied defence capabilities. We also adopted this resolution almost unanimously in the National Assembly. However, if we look at the content of these documents, if we also take into account the various doctrinal and other documents and implementing regulations, we have created a comprehensive, consistent and rational defence system, in line with the needs arising from the security environment and the material and other options of the country. Individual parts of this system are now being implemented and these reform processes are clearly scheduled by 2015. They are also part of the development of the collective defence system after the full membership of our country in NATO and the EU. A new organisation and structure of the military is established. A new army replenishment system is in place. The dynamics of reducing the military composition and changing the structure and organisation of the military are determined. Priority equipment and updating programmes shall be defined. Connectivity is established with NATO standards and so on. There are also changes in the area of civil defence, where substantial innovations will only be in place in the coming period. Preparations are also under way to complement the crisis management system in accordance with the principles in force in NATO and the EU or to be included in the basic solutions to be adopted in NATO this year. Amendments to the system-wide and sectoral legislation governing the system of protection against natural and other disasters are also being prepared. They will enable the further development of this area, the improvement of efficiency and rationality, as set out in the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters that we have adopted in 2002. Changes are also being made in individual parts of the security system and other areas of national security will need to be gradually amended and complemented in the next period. I am convinced that only such a gradual and planned approach ensures results and at the same time ensures that current tasks and interests in the field of national security are properly realized. Radical, simultaneous reforms in this area are not possible and we have not been able to undertake such receptions even during the period of independence when the security situation was incomparable to today's. Therefore, the lack of willingness of the government coalition is unfounded, unfounded and does not reflect the actual situation, nor does it contribute to strengthening the national security of the State. The authors of the interpolation also stated in their defence-related work that the current system of protection and rescue is still a poor copy of former civil protection and that, in the case of complex asymmetric threats to international terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, it is not expected that they would carry out the mission for which it is intended without radical adaptation. I believe that the Government has responded to this claim in a comprehensive and reasoned manner. Comparing the current system of protection against natural and other disasters with the organisation of former civil protection is impossible for anyone who knows little about the arrangements in the past and today's situation. The current system is set up organisationally, technically and functionally for operation in the event of natural and other accidents and not only for war. Civil protection is only a small part of this system. During the period considered, a planned and coordinated development of protection against natural and other disasters was ensured. A national programme has been adopted [[2002]] and the doctrine of protection, rescue and assistance [[2002]] . State plans for protection and rescue have also been adopted and supplemented in the case of animal diseases. A plan for the use of weapons or means of mass destruction and a plan for a major fire in the natural environment are also being prepared. Directive SEVESO II is applicable. [[dangerous substances in industry]] . The system has over 40,000 volunteers, especially firefighters, some 2,300 professional ambulances, some over 10,000 of whom are in charge. 44 fire brigades carry out rescues in the event of traffic accidents and dangerous substances accidents. It is pointless to compare such organisation with the former for war-organised civil protection. There are ongoing programmes to improve preparedness for fires in the natural environment, in the case of marine pollution, to modernise fire and rescue techniques and so on. A project to provide emergency medical assistance in the event of accidents and to establish a mobile hospital is being implemented with the military [[Role II]] . The readiness of the State rapid intervention unit and 13 regional RCF units is ensured. The Republic of Slovenia actively participates in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism and a similar system developed by NATO. In 2004, integration into peacekeeping operations was launched. However, a process of reforming regulatory arrangements is also under way to ensure the further development of the system with the aim of increasing efficiency and rationality. On this basis, such sectoral laws governing fire protection, fire protection, as well as a covert law on protection against natural and other disasters, which must also be aligned with defence reforms, particularly in the work governing civil duties, will be complemented. It is already clear in the Government’s reply that a comprehensive concept of response and action in the event of the use of means or weapons of mass destruction or of the RKB of terrorism is being developed. This is a problem that all countries are dealing with today, and not just ours, and it is necessary to take into account the real threat of our country, which is relatively low. Last year, the government approved the concept of response in this area. This year, this concept is applied through the Interdepartmental Working Group, not only to protection and rescue tasks but also to tasks in other areas such as health, animal and plant protection, nuclear safety, police and the like. It is the interdepartmental approach that ensures that the existing solutions are comprehensive and coordinated. Part of these tasks will be taken over by rescue teams and services operating in the framework of protection against natural and other disasters. On the other hand, existing monitoring systems for regular activities will also be included in the operation. A specific national plan for protection and rescue will also be adopted. In view of the above, the interpretation requirement for a substantial change in the system of protection against natural and other disasters is unfounded and, with regard to the response to threats by weapons or means of mass destruction, excessive and needs to be aligned with the actual threat posed by the State, preparedness as well as the activities under way for greater preparedness in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u139	I give my word to the proposer. Comrade Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. Yesterday in my presentation, I explained why in the opposition we believe that the government was misleading, knowingly misleading in presenting the Republic of Slovenia's debt. The answer from government experts was that, of course, there are two methodologies, one is reported as such, and the other is reported as differently.Of course, these two reports are essentially different, since one external debt is almost one third higher than that with which the government boasts. We have also said and proved that the fact that the external debt has settled is in fact just one wish. Nothing has settled, since 2000 it has increased, from 35.1% of gross domestic product to at least 38.7. So it's getting bigger. If it settles down, let's hope it does, but for now there's no such evidence. Otherwise, I would return to the question of methodology and ask the Prime Minister and the entire government whether Slovenian taxpayers will also have the option of paying according to one methodology or another? Is it not absolutely true that, regardless of how the government decided today, what it will report and what it will really say to Slovenian citizens and citizens, that these options will not be paid only for the debt the government boasts. The question is not about methodologies, it is about credibility, about the trust of people in their own government, which has scissors and canvas in their hands to have the resources we trust in them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u141	Thank you, mate, Dr. Bayuk. A colleague of Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u142	Let me tell you that most things cannot be answered, given that we have received 70 minutes less time than the government and government parties. Nevertheless, I would like to show one of the graphs that detracts from these forecasts yesterday by the government about how Slovenia is already a developed environment and how things are arranged for us to rule a balance. The problem that we have been pointing out for some time is that the tax gap in Slovenia is the largest among most comparable countries, greater than in France and Germany, Sweden, Austria, Lithuania, Poland, Denmark, Norway and so on. Thus, the total percentage of taxes and social contributions that the employer has to pay to an employee plus net salary is such that Slovenia is at the top of this scale and will also be at the top following this so-called tax reform when the new Income Act enters into force on 1 January next year. This is an unstimulating environment for the economy. And until we sort this out, things won't go any further. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the contradiction expressed. Here the government claimed, for the first time, that we had good governance and that Slovenia was among the most developed. A little while ago, less than a month ago, we listened at Cankar's home to the president of the second largest government party, the United List, Mr Pahor, who said: "Slovenia will be in the next term due to problems that have accumulated in a difficult situation. The next government will have to take very unpopular measures. The next government will not have the full mandate." So, on the one hand, you claim that you ruled best, that everything is okay, on the other hand, the president of the second largest government party claims that the problems are so great that they will be very difficult to eliminate, that unpopular measures will have to be taken, and that the next government will have a shorter mandate. I would also point out that today and at this session there is much about how the government imagines that it will do what it has already promised for this mandate, and it has not done so, how it will do it in the future if it continues to rule, of course, what much we have not heard. However, there is something written in this draft development strategy that the government has also commissioned to produce during this mandate. I must say that in this draft development strategy, which cost taxpayers 40 million dollars, there are many good things. There are many conclusions that deny what the government said yesterday and today. Among other things, this development strategy paid by the government says that one of the main problems at the moment is the poor quality of governance in Slovenia. This is stated in the draft strategy under which the government is signed. Here experts, you have ordered them this study, say that one of the key problems in Slovenia is mismanagement. It's in the government's file. But there are also two things that I think are extremely problematic. If the power is still in place in the next term and will follow this draft, then this authority will automatically agree to the downward trend of the indigenous population and immigration policy. This draft says that in the years to come, we will import people into Slovenia for a great deal. And nothing says what we should do to increase the indigenous population. This draft also states that it will be necessary to push small congregations with financial screws so that they can join together - under pressure. Which, of course, means that he deprived people in rural municipalities with smaller grants than they would have been to unite into larger ones because they are more manageable. That's directly what your strategy says on page 93. I would also like to say that in two days we have heard I have to say some insults at the expense of those who have prepared the interpolation. This assessment of the situation was either largely written by people who had not been paid for it. They are all written here in a program that is also on the Internet and in the state assessment are publicly signed with names and also academic addresses. They did it for free, without costing any taxpayers. We have heard, however, that they do not have qualifications, except for driving and traffic permits, so that they cannot write and so on. I'm asking the government if there's a single sentence in this 300-page answer that someone wrote for free without having to pay any taxes for it. Did you do this to the ministers in the afternoon? Nobody. Compare, insult the people who were here willing to sacrifice their time for the common good and prepare an assessment of the situation and an alternative program. It's easy to hurt and talk when you have a good salary when you're paid for it. I expected this debate to take place as announced by the Prime Minister when he said there would be arguments. Now, right now, the Members of the Government here are holding a real fair so that nothing can be heard in this Chamber, not to mention what the debate was like. Here we face a distinct minority of the opposition, where we are slightly more than 20, twice as many government members, the whole government, those who have prepared an assessment of the situation, cannot be here, cannot defend it, you have given us 70 minutes less time and we have listened to insults. I think that the conclusion by the applicants can be such that we attract the survey published on the Journal's website and is taking place today. The question is, who convinced you in the debates and with arguments, on the Dnevnik, which is probably not the opposition newspaper, or the Robb's Prime Minister's Company, or the opposition, the opposition 77%, the ruling coalition 12%, none 11%. So on the journal's website. I think this is another argument that we all say together that in the future we need such governance for a country that will be better and even more fair. We both need: better governance for the country and fairer access to taxpayers. We need such governance with the country so that all, but not just some, will receive the fruits of progress. We need such management to be able and most productive to be motivated by their work, not bullied by the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u143	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u144	Dear Members and Members. Nicely greeted. Perhaps first the comment of this picture, which was presented here, will make it clear, of course, to all the viewers and viewers in front of television screens. It showed the tax burden on the richest. And hold, the richest in Slovenia, those who have the highest wages are relatively very heavily taxed. In this sense, Slovenia is at the top of those who are most burdened by the tax-rich and at the bottom of those who are burdening those who have low wages. In Slovenia we have a progressive tax scale, and we all know that. However, if we looked at the average tax rate and calculated it, calculated it on the basis of data and on the basis of new income, we would find that, despite lowering the tax rate, income, despite lowering the tax on the payroll, we are still relatively high, in short, around the average of the European Union. For taxes - and this has been shown on screens - and for all taxes collected and tax burdens, Slovenia is already completely below the average of the European Union. What he is really holding was shown here today, and we can talk about it. And in this respect, I would like to give all the recognition to these people who have tried and wrote the opposition programme, the SDS programme, which very vividly describes how they imagine tax policy. Otherwise, they say they will study, but there is nothing to study, because we all know what the introduction of a single tax rate means. It means, of course, there will no longer be such a graph in Slovenia. It means that the rich will no longer be so taxed that their tax burden will be significantly lower and they will have significantly higher net benefits. But something about it later when I get to this chapter. There's a long discussion behind us about the interpellation. We've heard a lot of arguments for and against. I also regret that there was no further argument that there was no more calm. I must say that we have heard, as we have heard many times in extraordinary sessions, many flat-rate, repeated accusations, disqualifications and images of the catastrophic situation in Slovenia. It is no wonder, therefore, that all public opinion polls, if we are already talking about them, show that the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes do not support this debate and the extraordinary session just before the elections, because the situation is not extraordinary, but normal democratic elections are, and we will all have very much opportunity within the electoral campaign next month to present our programmes so that each of us can present how Slovenia imagines in the future. There is no doubt that this zeal, perhaps the exaggeration of the result of this preeminent fever, perhaps even the nervousness of one of the present. However, all that has been said - and I would like to repeat here - cannot destroy what we have done in Slovenia in the last term, what we have all done together. It cannot destroy what it has written down and the real European Commission. It cannot destroy what it has written down and identified in the negotiations by the European Central Bank. It cannot destroy the European Bank's report on reconstruction and development. It cannot destroy the World Bank's reports and the fact that the World Bank has classified us as the most developed countries in the world. It cannot undo that we, too, are the most respected global rating agencies that are completely independent, working for the entire world of comparisons between countries and on the basis of which then private banks worldwide account for interest and risk for the investment and lending of individual countries. That by doing so, the most respected, global, independent rating agencies have classified and moved us significantly further along these rating scales and that we have far surpassed all other transition countries, all the other countries that have joined the European Union, including those with which we are being compared here, including those with which some of us would obviously like to be equal based on the policy they are proposing. All of these, there is no doubt, and many others see Slovenia as a relatively successful country, a successful economy and a developing society. There is absolutely no doubt about it, and of course this is also where we have admitted in these discussions that the truth is not only one-significant. There is no doubt that some things are not the best. There is no doubt that some things can still be significantly improved and that in some cases they may even be improved in the past. There is no doubt, however, that we have achieved extremely important historical success in the political field in the last term. We have taken important steps in the area of the economy, in the area of the social state, in the area of culture. The data speaks for itself. We have, however we can talk here, we can speak for 10 days, 20 days, we have successful economic growth, relatively more successful and more balanced than most European countries. We can say what we want, but we can look at the inflation data. We have the lowest inflation so far. And we can talk about her for hours and hours. The latest report, also, came out yesterday, the Bureau of Statistics, tells us that inflation has fallen further. That's an achievement. This is the achievement of the Bank of Slovenia, this is, of course, the achievement of governments and coordinated policies. We all know, and there is no doubt that interest rates and interest rates have decreased and that this allows for faster economic growth. We know, and this is, of course, wrongly stated in the interpolation, that we have a declining external debt, which is due to favourable movements, exports and imports, which is due to the success of Slovenian companies. When we talk about the share of public debt, we can talk about two methodologies, one methodology says that something else is included in public debt and the other methodology is not. However, if we look at trends, we have stabilized public debt according to one or the other methodology and has decreased relatively. This is what the numbers are talking about, and everyone can look at the report of the European Commission. We all know that we have the largest number of students so far, and that we have significantly increased the number of graduates. We all know that the share of R & D expenditure has increased in recent years. We all know that we have released the budget for these development purposes. Everyone can look at the data that there is as much investment in health at this point as ever. Data on the risk of poverty are also available and can be viewed by anyone who wants to talk about what we have achieved in Slovenia. We all know that we have the lowest unemployment rate so far, registered unemployment and also survey unemployment. These data were published and published by the Statistical Office. We meet the Maastricht criteria, according to all three criteria, which are some of the European countries, the Member States of the European Union that do not. And, of course, we're starting to take over the euro. Yesterday, I talked about what we had to do and how the European Central Bank checked us out and checked that we could enter their exchange mechanism and that we could also have the euro. Slovenia is successful despite the problems it undoubtedly has. In the debates, we have heard many times that the government does not respond to the perceptions that are in interpretation and that it only speaks of good things. But we did say about those who did, and when they proposed the interpretation, that they wanted to talk about the balance sheet. If they want to talk about the balance sheet, of course it is perfectly normal to talk about the situation in Slovenia and to show what is good. I think it is good that we are also talking about what is good in Slovenia The feeling is, of course, that when anything positive happens, the government has absolutely nothing to do with it and the wrong whale for the result. We were listening to Dr. Drnovska criticize the opposition's exactly years ago for inflation. He asked him questions repeatedly, if you remember, and criticized him and asked him why we had so much inflation and told him how the government was responsible for it. Now that inflation is low and we have managed to bring it down with Banka Slovenije, the government has nothing to do with it and Banka Slovenije has done it on its own. If that were the case, then we would not have adopted a common programme, then we would not have done and done everything we had to do in this area, and much of it was. Of course, there are also bad things and things that have not been done enough. We're not afraid of this conversation. I think it is good to talk about this, because it gives everyone the basis for us to define our work programme and our way forward, for the future, for those things that still need to be improved. However, I would also like to say that no one in Slovenia is entitled to the credit for what we have done and for the success we have in this mandate. Undoubtedly, it is the greatest credit for what we have achieved for citizens and citizens, Slovenia and Slovenia. They are the ones who eventually made those urgent needed moves, they are the ones who work in companies, and not least, they and all of them, when we went on this path of self-reliance and transformation of society, changed the way of life and thinking. And that ultimately gave that vital result, which, of course, is a good one. There are also entrepreneurs, teachers, scientists. Let's not forget the officers. They have done the same, regardless of the fact that many criticise them and speak only of them being too many, they have done a great deal of work in joining the European Union. A huge number of laws had to be drawn up and passed through all this maze of legislation. And we did, and we prepared Slovenia well. The government has also played a role in this, as well as former Prime Minister Drnovšek. His historical merit is clear here, and, of course, I still admit it to him, and I am proud to be able to take over the government's work for Dr. Janez Drnovsk. The claims that were made here from the context, the quotations, the accusations, the disqualifications, such successful Slovenia certainly do not build or create. Let me just say a few things like that. I've already talked about inflation, so of course I'm not going to talk about it, but there's something else I'd like to say about taxes. Tax at a single tax rate, because today it has been said here that it is good to say and that we have very little to hear about what we are planning to do in the future and what we will offer to citizens. If we compare what we are offering and say in these debates that we believe that the tax burden of work needs to be reduced, that we believe that the tax on the payroll needs to be abolished in the next term, but that there is a need to maintain a progressive tax rate, that there is also a need to maintain two tax rates at the value added tax, that on the one hand we need to have a lower tax rate for children's food, for clothing, for medicines, that we believe that this is a good solution that we have, that is to say, that we should help those who have given themselves a uniform tax rate, and that they have also said that they will consider it. As I was told in the interview, they have already examined this in direct interviews, for example with the Minister of Finance of Slovakia, to help them put it out of the programme. If such a tax rate is introduced, then all prices of all medicines, children's food, all these prices will increase immediately and immediately. The tax rate will be possible in this case, this calculation has been made, reduced from 20% to 19%, but therefore the prices of all these products will be raised immediately in Slovenia. All those who were listed here, and this was the day as an obvious government, with the highest wages in Slovenia, will be able to look forward to their net wages. A single tax rate will be introduced, it will probably be 19%, it may be 29%, so they will pay only 20% of the tax, they will not pay those in the highest income class 50%, they will significantly reduce the tax burden, but of course they will all pay this tax. It is possible that they will also introduce what is, for example, in Slovakia, to exempt some from this tax rate, perhaps those with the lowest wages, but then those from that point will pay significantly more. That means those with lower wages and those with medium-sized wages. It's an alternative. This is what we are talking about, and I think it is very good that we have the opportunity to talk about it here today. When we talk about foreign investments, we have seen very different views. On the one hand, there is a lack of foreign investment and, on the other hand, explicit opposition at the press conference, first opposition to the country's participation in Revoz, participation in regional development in Dolenjska. When it was found that this might not be the best and that it was not only 700 jobs, but that it was 3,300 jobs, they rectified and said that they had only presented an alternative, and they said that the alternative was incubators. When it was found that incubators were no alternative, they improved, and they spoke out to the professors, but they suggested something, they gave something as their programming direction. It is important to be aware of what such programming policies mean and what consequences they have for the future, for what we have already done in Slovenia, and for what is worth preserving. And that's a good thing to discuss. When we talked about social assistance, we witnessed the charges first. It has been said that in Slovenia poverty has increased dramatically. Why did it get bigger? Because we have 60,000 recipients of social money. Later, we heard less when we found out or said - and I believe that the proponents knew that - when we said that we had 60,000 recipients of social money, because we decided to raise the price for social money aid, to increase the number of recipients and offer them more social protection. If the proposal is to reduce the number of social assistance in Slovenia, then it may be very good to talk about it. Your Honor! There are still many tasks ahead of us that I believe we can effectively solve them and that we will also effectively solve them in the future. I have no doubt and I do not deny that much remains to be done in the area of regional development, that this is one of the areas where the door to foreign investment will have to be opened even more; that this is one of the areas where more work will have to be done with the Regional Development Fund, where even better programmes will have to be done and where the system will probably need to be upgraded with regionalisation and decentralisation of Slovenia. This is one of those that was discussed a lot in the National Assembly. Of course, I am very sorry that we have failed to achieve this decentralisation, that we have failed to change the constitution. I hope that in the next term there will be more will, more willingness to carry out this project then. One of the priorities ahead of us, where we have taken some steps forward, is to do even more, is in the field of science, research and development. We have increased this expenditure, but we all know that we are still under the Lisbon objectives, so we are preparing ourselves and that is why we will raise the level of this expenditure in the future. A particularly sensitive topic is the rule of law, it's justice, it's judicial backlog. Despite the fact that some judicial backlogs have been reduced, despite the fact that we know that some measures have been taken, such as judicial information and the like, I think that there is a common opinion and a position that we are not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary, that we are not satisfied with the delays in the judiciary and that more will have to be done here, in particular with good practice. The economy is undoubtedly one of the most important areas in which we have done much. Of course, we do not deny that much more needs to be done to make more of our companies more competitive, to make them easier to penetrate Western European markets. They need to create conditions for this. What the state can do is a stable macroeconomic environment, because we work through lower inflation and other conditions. On the other hand, we have already started to include them in the incentive mechanisms offered to us by the European Union, the Structural Funds and these projects, and I believe they will, of course, produce results. Never a finished story is, of course, an effective social state, how the extent of social transfers we have, how all of these investments we make are designed, and then allocated more effectively to where they have the greatest effect. This is a great task that is ahead of us all. If I conclude slowly, let me say that obviously in these two days we have all been given the opportunity and the opportunity to present our views thoroughly, some things have, of course, been repeated, some things we have had to repeat several times. And in the part where we talked about the facts, in the part where we talked about what it really is, I think that the discussion was good. Where we have heard repeated accusations and disqualifications hundreds of times, and where I believe we have not done ourselves a favor. None of those who did so, not in opposition, not in position, and we have done a bear service to Slovenian politics as a whole. But this is just the way the work policy works. Given that this is probably one of the last meetings and that I am probably in this composition for the last time, let me finally thank everyone for participating in this mandate. I think we've done a lot of good together and we'll do a lot of good in the future. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u145	Thank you, Prime Minister Mag. Anton Rop. This concludes the debate on the interpretation tabled. The scheduled time is up. Raised hands mean someone wants to make a procedural proposal. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the applicants, we have almost three minutes left, and I would like to make one comment on a certain presentation by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u147	Comrade Dr. Bajuk, the kind of debate was set out, including the concluding part where you had the floor first with the representatives of the applicants and then the Prime Minister of Mag. Anton Rop, as usual, and this concludes the debate. The total time planned for this point has also expired. If someone hasn't taken advantage of it before he had it at his disposal, we can't go back to the debate now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Janš, this is another matter. [[...]] What were the proposals, the College decided on the time of both the government and the proposers, as well as the Members or the groups of Members. Because they're not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u148	We'll make a statement to the public. But it's not gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u149	Proposals for conclusions under Article 253 [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u150	Excuse me, President. You gave the government 150 minutes for the final word. You gave the opposition 60 minutes anyway. We've spent 57 minutes of this. Please give us two more minutes and a half at least. Really. Isn't the government so bad that now you're afraid of these two minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u151	Comrade Janš, this would violate the rules which are common and also enshrined in the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the debate on interpolation. I conclude the consideration of this item on the agenda. We move to the next point, that's 1.b point. Thank you all for participating at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I very much ask for your attention, because we continue to do so. We move on to 1B OF THE DAY'S LINE - MANDATE-VELIVE CASES, to consider the Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDING THE DECISION ESTABLISHING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STATE COMMISSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA The proposal was tabled by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft decision. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Notwithstanding the fact that we are practically at the end of the four-year term of office of the National Assembly, we must complement the composition of the Constitutional Commission in the light of the constitutional law we have tabled. The reason is that the current President of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Commission, Borut Pahor, has terminated his mandate for election to the European Parliament. The practice so far was that the President of the Constitutional Commission was each time the President of the National Assembly, but that appointment was made at the beginning of the term of office and for the entire period of four years. This time, however, it is just over a month before the national elections, and we have decided unanimously in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to propose our fellow Member, Mr Miran Potrč. The proposal was drafted in agreement with the President of the National Assembly, Ferri Horvato, who has not dealt with constitutional issues so far. Miran Ptrč is an educated university graduate lawyer, one of the most experienced Slovenian parliamentarians, very well knows constitutional law and all our legislation. He was chairman of the Constitutional Commission when Slovenian constitutional amendments were adopted in 1989 and opposed to Belgrade. He was Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission from 1990 to 1992, when the decision-making decision was taken and the new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was being prepared. From 1992 to today, he was an active member of all constitutional commissions. As it is said, he has a very good knowledge of constitutional issues, but he also knows constitutional issues regarding deleted ones, although already well-known statements by opponents have been deleted that they will be against the appointment of counterpart Miran Ptræ; but their arguments are on torn legs. They are also political opponents, and they are few on the right, persistently trying to find something from his past that would politically and morally disqualify him. Despite desperate attempts, they can't tell him anything. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have drawn up the proposal mainly because of the extraordinary knowledge our colleague, Miran Potrč, has in the field of constitutional issues. This qualifies him to be able to begin immediately and in a short time successfully complete his work on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Slovenian National Party – no representative. A United List of Social Democrats? Okay. The Slovenian Human Party? On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Franci Rokavec will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian People's Party's Group opposes this proposal, not because of what the predecessor, Comrade Bevk, mentioned, but because of the continuity that should follow the order of who should lead the Constitutional Commission in the National Assembly. If we look at history, of course, the President of Parliament has always been the President of the Constitutional Commission. That is how Dr France Bučar, President of the First Constitutional Commission, was, of course, not a constitutional commission, during the Presidency of Herman Rigelnik, during the chairmanship of Mr Jožef Školč, of course, was the chairman of the Commission when Mr Janez Spožnik, the President of the Constitutional Commission, and, of course, during this term, President Borut Pahor, of course, was the President of the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, we do not see any reason why we should not follow this practice even during this period, a period of one month, probably after today's failed attempt to get a glimpse of possible dialogue for one of the possible constitutional arrangements so that the current President of Parliament is not entrusted with the leadership of the President of the Constitutional Commission. Because of the change of practice, of course, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will oppose this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Our Group also has great concerns about this candidacy, and indeed, first of all from this title, that very good practice is interrupted, that the President of Parliament was also the President of the Constitutional Commission. When we voted for Mr Pahor, we had no doubts, we supported him. Even when there was a vote for the new President of the National Assembly, we did not have any concerns, even though it is of the United Nations. It seems somehow that the function continues after such division as before, and we have voted. But here we have a strong thought, because of the division of these functions. The Constitution is an extremely important document for us. Above all, the first Slovenian democratic constitution is the most important act on which we build democracy, our conduct and the policy of this country. We would like the members of the government to see it that way, but not that way. And that is precisely why we are opposed to a specifically appointed candidate. As you know, today we voted on a request for a referendum and you voted on something that you should not, something that the Constitution does not allow you to do. The proposal to reject this requirement, which, of course, is very clear in the Constitution, states in its 90th Article: "The National Assembly may sign the referendum referred to in the preceding paragraph on its own initiative, and it must notify it if at least a third of Members so require." This is the case, and nowhere does the Constitution provide for the possibility that this duty may be avoided by the National Assembly. And, of course, given that the appointed candidate for the President of the Constitutional Court has proposed to the Internal Policy Committee that it rejects the request for a referendum, and before that, there have been such strange reasons in the proposal as to deliberately delay the adoption of a bill on deleted, which will not be scheduled for at least two or three months. And this candidate for the Constitutional Commission has proposed this proposal, which he should know was contrary to the Constitution. It's an expression of his respect for the Constitution. The other thing is. The College of the National Assembly, as you know, has been in recent times and is once again in conflict because of its breach of the Rules of Procedure, as of course a small constitution, which is the basis of democracy, democratic procedures in the National Assembly. And the proposals for such an express violation, by which we were constantly deprived of our right to debate, also the minimum right granted to us by the Rules of Procedure, such a vote, such a withdrawal of business rights, has always been supported by the candidate in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, I have a feeling that now that the functions in some political option are amassed, which has a different relation to the constitution, to the rules of procedure, to the laws, to the democratic rules of the game, that this same option is pushing us into a system that we hope is already over, a system that, of course, Mr Candidate knows very well. In that system in which laws and constitutions are written for the naive public, when, how and for whom these laws will be laid down, the constitutional provisions have been taken into account and applied by the central committees. Of course, with us these central committees now have a different title - yet this power, this government now decides when it will allow us to refer to the rules of procedure, when it will allow us to comply with constitutional provisions, and, of course, this attitude, such thinking in the Constitutional Commission, I am very afraid. That is why we will reject this proposal, which I believe is a provocation to democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u159	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, my debate will go in a slightly different direction. I must say, in the Democratic Party, we have examined the pensioner's proposal. To know Mr Ptræ well, I also had the opportunity to work with him on the Constitutional Commission - I think that his appearances in the Constitutional Commission were constructive and his contributions to those things that we were solving were good, so our group will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u161	Madam President. Fellow Members and Members. In our Group of Members also this proposal - I apologize, Mr Potrč - we will not support it. In fact, it is true that some great damage, as President of the Constitutional Commission at this time, which remains, cannot be done and, in fact, does not matter whether you are elected or not. However, I must say that we do not support this proposal, but there are more reasons. One of the reasons actually happened in this house, in this national assembly today. What you have decided here today in the ruling coalition, in fact, you have contributed greatly. So you don't respect the Constitution, you haven't given citizens and citizens the opportunity to speak at the referendum about the system law you brought in just before the third phase or just before the adoption. Next, what I would like to point out here is that you have played a very negative role in your person in the adoption of the Close Trade Act on Sundays and working off days. In the end, you admitted and said here before the National Assembly, today I will not support this, these hands are instructive; well, within a week you have changed your mind and then, in fact, as the Constitution and the laws say, take a decision which, of course, would have been possible much earlier. Today, unfortunately, you have not changed your mind, and because of what has been adopted here today, the State Assembly in its next composition, in whatever capacity, will have great, great problems. I apologize, but for these and many other reasons, Mr Potč, we cannot support you. Moreover, in New Slovenia we do not want to participate in this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. A lot of you signed up for the word. I don't think many of you are in the hall. There's no Mr. Pechet, there's no Stemberger. Mr. Rokavec, would you like a word? You don't want to. Mr. Jansha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u163	It's kind of a special day today. We have previously experienced the adoption of a decision that has demolished the Constitution by a simple majority. And Mr Potrč, who is a candidate for the President of the Constitutional Commission, was the chief lawyer for the violation of this constitution. In fact, it is now proposed that we let the Constitution be guarded by someone who has just violated it. This violation is still fresh and this was not the first case on this subject. Just before that, colleague Sok stated similar behaviour, which was also publicly presented for this speaker. I remember myself in 1987, when the writing constitution was formed, which we prepared and printed in illegal writing. All the key provisions of the current Slovenian Constitution were already contained in the writing constitution. And someone who was most biting on this constitution was the then president of the Socialist Assembly, Mr. Ptrč, then Comrade Potrč. And this one will now be the guardian of this constitution, whose foundations are firmly and gallantly attacked. Read the 1987 papers, and you'll read it. All the key foundations, all the key foundations of the current Slovenian constitutional regime were then marked on his part by the words he is now using as an opposition, sometimes called the internal enemy. Indeed he participated, then he was democratically elected in 1990 and also later - no one denies this mandate. He participated in later constitutional commissions, but indeed, after this tradition, which the Slovenian Parliament has, when the Constitutional Commission has always been chaired by a President, someone around whom a wider consensus has been reached is not in fact worthy of such appointment. It's really not worthy. And now, for the third time in this National Assembly, we have within a few months the completion of some key positions where only people with Belgrade experience come. Slovenia went to the European Union on 1 May, and since then we have elected a person with Belgrade experience as the Foreign Minister - the same and now the President of the Constitutional Commission. I'm afraid someone here lost the compass. Hey, we went to the European Union, not Yugoslavia!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Cheligoy, would you like a word? No, no, no. Mr. Sok? No, no, no. Mr. Barovich is not here. Mr. Companion. No, no, no. Mr. Rupel? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u165	Madam President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't really have much to add to what's just been said. It seems to me that the proposal is somewhat reckless. I remember Mr. Potsch from a few years ago. I was one of those who was on the opposite side, and today I am on the opposite side again, obviously, but in a slightly better situation. At that time, the situation was not so pleasant. And Mr Potrč represented for me a power against which no objection was possible. He was president of the Socialist Assembly, he was in party functions for a while, he was in Belgrade and so on. He actually represented what we wanted to say good-bye to and what we resisted in the late 1980s and what we then won in the early 1990s. The return of Mr Potts to the head of a democratic constitution is, of course, a symbolic event that - I must say - gives me bad feelings. These were the times when we feared Mr. Potsch. And in a way, although I am no longer afraid of Mr Potsch today, I think that in many citizens the fear that was connected to the dictatorship that was linked to the single party system is that of what we were experiencing, as it were, the end of the 1980s, as well as all the 1970s, when Mr Porč was one of the main party players in Slovenia and Yugoslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Lenko? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Bernick, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sok has already told us what our client's position is. But I have another comment that I would like to make myself, and this is the following. I have heard that Mr. candidate in the previous regime was very important and he was very much involved later, I believe he was the only person in Parliament who has read everything – I don't know now whether it's good or bad. But one thing really surprised me. At that time, there was a conflict of interest in the Constitutional Commission, which I had repeatedly talked about, that the same specialists who advised the government on how to write a proposal for constitutional changes came to us and advised us on how to comment on their own work. And from then until today, I have not been able to get a lawyer, and I would expect an eminent lawyer like this to take a stand and say that this was a purely mere conflict of interest. And so it's still hanging over this constitutional commission, it's never been solved, and I'd like to know if he wanted to be president. Besides, if the president is a little difficult, it would be difficult for him, because there is no consensus. And he's not a man who unites, he's disuniting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Bayuk? [[No, no, ……]] Neither is Mr. Tank. Mr. Kelemina, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Well, now that the appointment of a new representative to the Constitutional Commission is not even as important, or Mr Potrč will only be a member of this Commission, because in any way he will try to influence such decisions that would please him and his friends as much as possible to the people as possible. For, if we remember correctly, Mr Potrč has been very involved in the fact that certain constitutional changes have not now been adopted, which have been extremely positive and important for the Slovenian State, not to mention that he likes not to respect, especially he does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court if they are written in the same way as he and his options are not answered. Let us only remember the referendum on the municipal electoral system, where it absolutely overturned the Constitutional Court's decision and different decisions were taken. It does not respect the referendum decisions of others that have been adopted and is against this constitutional provision, even the contrary, I would like to amend the provisions on referendum decision-making [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u170	Mr. Kelemina, I'm sorry to warn you, because we're going too far.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u171	I'm sorry, I didn't hear that ring, 'cause there's something ringing all the time. In short, I apologize, but in short, I certainly cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Proposer, please, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I am pleased with these debates, and I am also grateful for the opinions you have given. However, I would like to say the following, as regards the assessment of the writing constitution, that Dr. Tone Jerovšek was on behalf of the congregation at the time. That's the truth, I wasn't there, and I wasn't talking about it. That's one fact. The second fact is, it would be good to remember the time in 1989, 27 September and the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution. Read those officers and statements from you, representatives of the then opposition, about what was achieved. We all said in one voice that this is an important achievement for the consolidation of the situation of Slovenia, for the possibility of independence and secession and for democracy and a different legal and political system in Slovenia. I was then the head of the Constitutional Commission and the Assembly. Today these facts can be falsified, only then was a common assessment in one voice of all. That I don't speak other people's watches! Foreign newspapers have also written about this and even feared that intervention will take place in Slovenia. Third, which I am particularly pleased with, everyone has the right to be in favour and against, but the argument to someone who has been elected four times by a Member and a Member, just like all of you, does not give the same rights is a picture of your understanding of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Voice explanation, please, if you can hold hands a little, Kangler, Lavrinz, thank you. Ah, again, just a little something. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Proclamation of what? Procedural proposal, Mr. Petty Officer, please. Excuse me, Mr. Cuckoo, then Mr. Petty Officer. Mr. Tsukati has raised his hand before, I'm sorry. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We believe that this is such a tactless move and, so I would say, a democratically unfortunate candidate that we will not participate in this vote and in participating in such a solution on such an important issue as the President of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u177	Member, colleague Sok has already given arguments why we do not agree with such a proposal in Novi Slovenija. However, constitutional changes are accepted by a two-thirds majority and therefore such a body must be guided by the person who unites, the one who connects and who can provide a certain consensus. This proposal is not - this is a problematic proposal. This suggests the possibility of constitutional relativism, as we have seen recently. Our Slovenian Constitution has a very small weight because of these attacks, these attacks have led her astray lately. Again is a decision we cannot make. Therefore, the Group of Members will not participate in this action and will therefore obstruct the voting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I hereby inform the National Assembly that we will vote after we have heard the explanations of vote. Two parliamentary groups, i.e. the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, have declared obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I invite Mr. Kangler to speak in explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I will not, Madam President, explain my vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on this vote for the following reasons. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that the parliamentary practice of the work so far in Parliament has not been practiced in this last month, that is, so far, all the Presidents of Parliament have also been Presidents of the Constitutional Commissions at the same time. We do not see the reasons and we do not know why, even though the current President of the National Assembly, Franz Feri Horvat, has received a great deal of support in the National Assembly, that he would not have proposed this function by the proposer for this month to the end of this term. I think that this is a case of misconduct and that the national assembly within the parliamentary groups should reach a compromise on the man who would be at the head of the Constitutional Commission and, in particular, as some have said today, on the symbolic decision of the proposer and also probably on this body, such as the National Assembly. I therefore predict obstruction on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I also note that the Slovenian People's Party's Group has announced obstruction, although Mr Kangler earlier wanted me to write it down that it would like to explain its vote. So, an explanation for the voice. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u181	First of all, I would say that everything is more like that battle for the shadow of a donkey than some serious discussion. After all, we know that our term of office is rapidly expiring. And unless, of course, the opposition is going to set us on fire for another session, this is more or less the last chance we have to tell each other what we think of each other. Secondly, I'll say I understand them saying what they think of someone. They have all this right. And they have the right to do what they did. We also said so about our former client colleague, Dimitri Rupel, whom I will say I am kind of feeling sorry for, because Janša has been using him for all the dirtiest jobs lately. So I, as a former intellectual, strike fist, to say the least, feel truly sorry for the new democratic forces and do such nonsense. Secondly, colleague Cukjat lied when he said that colleague Potrč had acted in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not gonna read everything to my buddy Tuckati. Decision of 20.4.2004 of the Constitutional Court, the decision signed by all Judges, Constitutional Judges, is certainly known. And in it, if I read just this piece, the Constitutional Court does not rule out this possibility that, for example, the National Assembly or, before it, the President of the National Assembly will determine the intentions of the initiators and hold the case. In short, they're fully aware of what they're doing, but I would say, forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. That's the first one. Second of all, I'll say something else. I didn't see anyone among them singing the Slovenian anthem for the first time in this room with us, so together with us, and many here among you. And for fuck's sake, I'd take a test to tell them when she was singing for the first time. In 1989.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u183	I will support the proposal myself, as it has been submitted. And I must say that in full consciousness, because it seems to me that Mr Purchast's proposal is a good proposal. I will not repeat how many constitutional commissions he has participated in, because I am also participating in this mandate, I can determine how much he has contributed and how much he controls the substance we are talking about. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support this proposal. Unfortunately for me, some people can't possibly forget that they want lustration. And now we've been witnessing a mirror clock, not luckily for hours, but just a little bit, because fortunately they left quickly. Lustrations, because of course everything else is important, which is irrelevant right now, like what really matters. It is sad to hear such words, but it may be good to hear them, perhaps it is good to speak it publicly and out loud. I am also easier to speak because I am not from this party from which my colleague Potz comes. Mate Potts is always kind of in this party or in the continuation of a party or whatever you want. Of course, some colleagues, who had much to say over this, will be running out of customers, how many times have they stepped in, what is normal, legitimate and easy. Keep going, there's still a few, I guess, where they haven't been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I will certainly be pleased and very optimistic to support the candidacy of colleague Miran Potræ as President of the Constitutional Commission. I mean, there are a lot of reasons, I don't want to mention it - over the last four years I've met him and I can say that he's a great colleague, an energetic, crooked interlocutor, that it's a pleasure to talk to him, debate him, even contradict him, because he's always looking for optimal arguments, he can also get optimal answers from the opponent, and so in some ways also assert himself whether he's right or wrong. Unfortunately, however, it is certain that the opposition is the brightest moments of our history - and certainly, yes27. September 1989 is a very bright moment in our history, when we have made changes, that we have actually entered the free, sovereign state in a greedy, bland, soft way - he can spit in such an ugly, low and dirty way. And if this is the purpose and purpose of the dialogue that we have in Parliament, that we keep all our best, the best moves, and even the most noble people spit - I don't think that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. Then Mr Barovic and Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u187	In the Liberal Democracy Group, we did not announce time to discuss this point, because we thought it was a routine thing to do in order to satisfy the things Parliament is doing. Democracy, of course, is a difficult matter and it is also necessary to listen to what we thought was different, that elections 12 or 14 years ago, and 12 years ago and so on, have been strengthened as a rule, as something that is normal in democracy; that those who went through these elections, who have gained the confidence of the citizens, have been elected in a democratic way and, of course, has also eliminated any idea of lustration, of bullying because of the activities of individuals before 1990, that is political activities. And, of course, because it is normal for Dr. Bernik to be clean at every point - so never forget to say, at every point it says how everything that was needed before 1990, so the people who worked in politics, even in justice, even elsewhere, obviously this was an opportunity to say it today. I reject such methods myself, and I believe that sooner or later we will all come to realize that we live in democracy and that [[End warning sign]] who are in this House - not for the first time, but more than once, that they can get this trust from those who may not agree or disagree with certain things. [[It's been three minutes for the MPs, but it's Mrs...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u188	Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u189	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I think it's fair that you haven't done the right thing, either, because I think we're in the process of explaining our voices. Madam Vice President, I'm talking to you. I say that I think that you did not do the right thing because we are now in explanation of the vote and not in assessing the action committed by two-thirds of the opposition — fair and fair. We have not done obstructions and do not have to – now if someone says: yes, Mr. Potch - right, let him say yes in explanation; whoever says "no" is not. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that if the National Assembly can work without one Vice-President, the Constitutional Commission could also work with the Vice-President – fair and fair. If that is the case, fine. We will oppose the proposal, but we will not withdraw. And that's the explanation for the voice. That is why I say, politics is politics, everyone has the right to an opinion. Mr Potts himself in his work, because he was very attached to Zasavje, otherwise I respect, but I think it is wrong that, unless something really happened, the Vice-President at that time would also be the vice-president until the new presidential election. We will therefore oppose the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! I have no doubt that I would not support Mr Miran Potsch's candidacy. I have already worked with him in this Parliament in many constitutional commissions, and if anyone, he is the one I can claim to be very subdued in constitutional matter, unlike some others who have participated in or even presided over previous constitutional commissions, and with them it has been difficult and difficult to cooperate, because some of them have not been well placed in constitutional matter. That's why I support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Well, I think that even though it is time for elections, it is necessary to be correct, correct, correct to their political opponents, because they are not enemies. I also think that certain parliamentary groups in this Parliament belong to certain places. As with the SDS Group of Members, one Vice-President, the United List belongs to this city. We have supported Dimitri Ruple as Vice-President, as we will now support Mr Potrč, because this city belongs to the United List. I also believe that Mr Potrč, as an expert in this field, is a very suitable person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u195	Thank you. I will not talk about the professional references of my colleague Potrč for the presidency of the Constitutional Commission, because this is what my fellow Member Samo Bevk said, and I would like to say this at the end of my term in this National Assembly. Some in this National Assembly and in this country would like to be national heroes. For a hero, he must be a harmonious person. The harmonious person is not hostile to the people around him, and the harmonious person also gathers courage to say "no" when this "no" must also be said by vote and does not withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote, we can move to a decision, which is to decide on a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 47 of us in attendance, in favour of 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I sincerely congratulate the new President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Potsch. [[Let's hear it.]] We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the proposal of the Commission's Commissioner for Anti-Corruption Prevention. The material was submitted by the anti-corruption commission for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite the representative of the Commission for an additional explanation, namely the President of the Commission, Mr Drag Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members. When the Anti-Corruption Act was passed in December, we were all confident that the body established by this law would start quickly with the anti-corruption commission. Because of the problems that the judicial branch of power had with the search for its representative, which you only appointed at the end of July, the whole thing has stalled a little bit, but the future commission has prepared, as soon as possible, a draft of the Rules of Procedure which is before you today. Under the law, the National Assembly must give a transitional consent to the text of the Rules of Procedure, and then the Commission will adopt it, which of course will not be a problem, since we have prepared it and then the Commission will start working. So today's action is not only important because an act is being adopted that will regulate the rules for the work of the Commission, but also because the Commission will only then be able to start work. When a regulation was adopted, the anti-corruption law with the organisation and placement of a commission, the Republic of Slovenia became one of the first countries to centrally and uniformly regulate the monitoring of the property situation of officials, all officials of the country, as well as the monitoring of conflicts of interest. It has become one of the first countries to introduce so-called integrity plans, which are even copyrighted in one of the European Union countries, and we have received a body responsible for implementing the first national anti-corruption strategy in this country. Despite the rules of procedure, this is therefore a document of a distinctly legal, formal nature. When we tried to build as many elements in it as possible to show that we are aware that this is not only an independent body, which is placed very high in the hierarchy of public authorities, but also an authority that will have to set an example with a high degree of legality, expertise and integrity, honesty in the home. As a result, we have provided ourselves with the strictest possible rules on the time limits that we must respect in the performance of our duties. In contrast to other officials and public servants in other national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Commission will not be allowed to accept any gifts other than optional stamps, flags and the like. In particular, we have laid down strict rules for the protection of personal and other sensitive data. And all violations of the rules in force will be dealt with in appropriate procedures. We are aware that in order to monitor the integrity of the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and all the most important people in Slovenia, that is six thousand five hundred officials, it is not enough to have legal powers; it must also be followed by the reputation of the body and each individual in it. In addition to the provisions that technically regulate the way the Commission works as a collective body, for example, we have also led the Institute of Compulsory Exclusion from Procedures in order to ensure the necessary objectivity, we have also paid a lot of attention to transparency and to the public of the work of the Commission. We will invite not only representatives of the media but also representatives of civil society to the meetings of the Commission, and, for some cases, the rules of procedure already provide for mandatory information to the public. In particular, due to the observations that have been heard several times so far, we have set up procedures to monitor the property situation of officials and procedures for cases of infringements which we believe are indeed such that this body with teeth that will successfully prevent in real and threatening excesses and derogations from clear legal standards in this area. From the rules of procedure you will also be able to understand that the house in which we are located today is envisaged as a very important interlocutor of the Commission, especially as its supervisor and also as its assistant. Therefore, the National Assembly will also be regularly informed of all state authorities which will not take their tasks in the field of prevention and eradication of corruption seriously enough, as well as of other problems that the Commission will face. For the end of the short presentation, I would like to highlight the following. The Rules of Procedure clearly follow the spirit of the law by which the Commission does not have the authority to investigate the specific suspicions of corruption. However, the Rules of Procedure also make it more clear that, in addition to all other tasks, the Commission will also do everything to ensure that the authorities which are otherwise authorised, responsible and paid for such investigations will carry out their work as legally, professionally and correctly as possible. Of course, that will not work for us. If this succeeds with your help, honourable Members and Members, we will take a decisive step towards the purest and fairest countries of the European Union. We can measure ourselves with no difficulty now, and we will soon begin to compare ourselves with others in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The material was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, to present the report. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and I won't mind if you shorten your name. I almost like it better if they just call me Max. The report before you is brief, so it seems to me that, in fact, it would be a waste of time if I repeated the statements in the first part of the report, where the report speaks on how the President of the Commission, Mr Kos, explained the content of this Rules of Procedure. Of course, it was pointed out that this was a technical act that was supposed to specify the law itself. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that, following the original text, they had sat together and, on the basis of their opinion, found that such a text as you or the members of the Committee had received by reference would not be appropriate, since it had upgraded the law itself to that extent, so that, of course, it would be highly likely in the event of a constitutional dispute in order to determine it would fall. Therefore, we were, of course, pleased that the representative of the legislative service explained that the current text, this is the text before you, has no comments. Well, in the debate itself, some emphasis was given. In particular, the opposition expressed the view that, from the beginning, they have in some way opposed such a concept of anti-corruption. On the other hand, other Members and Members have been told that there is a danger of misuse of the data to which the members of the Commission are coming. And, of course, it is worth considering and practice will of course show what else can be done to ensure that the members of the Commission have as much confidence as possible throughout the country. However, after this discussion, we were of the opinion that it was good that the Commission could start work, that the rules of procedure were the same, that it would allow it to do so properly. If further adjustments are needed in the future, they will also be made. However, especially for the period when after the elections it will be necessary to check that I say so, or to harmonise or apply the provisions of the anti-corruption law also for the new composition of the National Assembly, the Commission will already be full and competent. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly to agree on the rules of procedure of the anti-corruption commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Franci Rokavec will present to us the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the Members and Members of the Commission. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the proposed Rules of Procedure should be reconsidered and not shown to be adopted. It is certainly not clear what they serve or want to include such a topic in a pre-election event. Of course, we support all the comments made by the legislative and legal services and, of course, at the same time, we also make our comments. In particular, we are outraged at the proposal of Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, which introduces mandatory polygraph testing of the employees of the Commission, which points to the mental level of the proposer of such provisions. It is also of particular concern to explain this method of checking employees, which is intended to set an example for other organisations. That is exactly the kind of detail that suggests a serious tendency for the commission to become some kind of superpolice. This is precisely the kind of detail that shows a serious tendency, and some countries that know certain such institutions, of course, to prohibit the employment of former government officials on the anti-corruption commission for at least three years after the termination of employment in national authorities, such as Australia. We join in such an opinion ourselves, and we believe that this is an attempt at a grave violation of human rights. In our view, this practice should be condemned most decisively even if it has produced good results in some other environment. The Anti-Corruption Commission certainly does not have any powers that other state and judicial authorities would not have. However, if applicants want to create something like this, they should be prevented in time. As we have already proposed in the adoption process, we lack more precise and binding provisions on civil society participation in the work of the anti-corruption commission. The Rules of Procedure merely refer to the possibility for the Commission to invite civil society organisations or individuals if it considers that their knowledge of things could benefit from a case-by-case assessment. Such a provision is too weak and does not comply with the provisions of the United Nations Convention, which provides for the obligation of state authorities to include civil society organisations in their work in the fight against corruption. We also miss provisions relating to the assessment of individual cases, ways and possible candidates for the evaluation before the Commission. If an individual or an organisation asks for an opinion and provides information and material, it would be necessary to establish a procedure with time limits, how the Commission should decide on the matter in order to avoid the unfavourable involvement of well-intentioned persons in corruption relations. Otherwise, individuals will simply send information to the Commission and will not have any assurance that they will be able to obtain an official opinion from the Commission on a case-by-case basis. In fact, the first indent of Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Commission shall adopt a principled opinion on whether certain conduct corresponds to the definition of corruption under that Act. In our opinion, the law does not provide for such powers to the Commission, which otherwise performs tasks which are defined as systemic analytical tasks and are defined in Article 16 of the Act. The Commission shall also carry out the coordination tasks defined in Article 17 of the Anti-Corruption Law. It works with similar authorities in other countries and bodies of international integration and international non-governmental organisations in the field of anti-corruption. Article 18 also defines the advisory and educational tasks of the Commission. It is true, however, that the second paragraph of Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure provides: “The opinions of the Commission referred to in the first indent have no legal or material consequences.” But we're sure that's not the case. It will be impossible to prevent the consequences of the Commission's opinion on an individual or an organisation whose conduct will be subject to the Commission's principled opinion or which corresponds to the definition of corruption under the anti-corruption law. In doing so, the procedure before the Commission remains legally incomplete and does not allow for a fair procedure. We can imagine what the consequences will be for those whose conduct the Commission will define as corrupt. Neither the Anti-Corruption Act nor the Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility of a complaint. In such a case, it must be a serious risk of human rights violations. In the work of the current office, we have witnessed the similar behaviour of its representatives, who, through the media, referred to as individuals or their conduct as corrupt, and then turned out to be wrong before the court. Such action must be prevented, since a statement by the State authority that an act is corrupt or that the appropriate definition of corruption defined in a law constitutes a statement of moral judgment which will certainly have legal and material consequences. Such opinions will certainly be followed by actions before the competent courts and the causation of irreparable injustices. As I have already mentioned, in order to exercise such powers, we should amend the anti-corruption law, define in the Rules of Procedure even a chapter on the decision-making procedure of the Commission which should contain the following provisions: the definition of possible decision-makers, the decision-making procedure of the Commission, the type of decisions taken by the Commission, the protection of applicants for the review of individual cases, the time-limits for the decision-making of the Commission, the manner in which the decisions of the Commission are published, the method of defence, the appeal procedure, the appellate institution or judicial protection. In the Slovenian People's Party we are committed to the commission's operation as quickly as possible, but we are convinced that the legal rules governing its operation must be without the slightest shadow of illegality. Its operation will have a strong impact on the rights of individuals and organisations, so its misstart or recurrence of errors from the current part of the Anti-Corruption Office would be a major blow to the fight against corruption, which, in our view, is an increasingly serious problem in Slovenia. Our opinion is based on domestic and international research, which still ranks us as relatively clean countries, but concerns the trend of increasing corruption, especially since it is becoming an ever-increasing obstacle to economic development. We are convinced that the government does not do enough to eliminate corruption, customerism and nepotism. It is true that we have dealt with these phenomena several times in recent times in the National Assembly and that we often hear reports of abuses. Research into the perceptions of corruption shows that the entanglement of the economy and the supervisory institutions of the market economy to the government and the ruling political parties is still high. Companies still serve bribery in relations with countries also in Slovenia, which clearly shows that Slovenia has not addressed this problem sufficiently and comprehensively. The latest World Bank report shows a slight increase in this perception compared to previous measurements. The study shows that small and newly established companies are most at risk, which are more frequently obliged to pay bribes than large companies and state-owned enterprises. The study also clearly proves that corruption, particularly in the capture of companies to the country, threatens business operations and the situation in Slovenia is deteriorating, which is increasingly being seen by the public. Such a journey will only make it difficult for Slovenia to implement the established development strategies, which are all based on a high development consensus, without politically privileged and without individuals who will have to pay more to survive. We are convinced that the debate on corruption is still necessary and that the transition period will also need to be re-evaluated, with emphasis on the emergence of corruption, the development capabilities of privatised enterprises. The most important conclusion of the survey for Slovenia is therefore that corruption in the business world is on the rise and that it is clearly a sign that the general anti-corruption climate is deteriorating and not improving. Our assessment is that the proposed Rules of Procedure do not provide a good basis for the work of the Commission and that all these proposals need to be included in the Rules of Procedure, re-examined at the meeting of the National Assembly and accepted in order to enable quality work Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Allow only for a warning to others, also because your position went to the Rules of Procedure, which we do not fear today. The Commission has tabled a first copy of Rules of Procedure of 19.8, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up warnings and the Commission has, on the basis of warnings of 30.8, tabled rules of procedure which no longer contain provisions on polygraphs and so on. That's it. Since you quoted Article 46 and the polygraph, of course, I have estimated that you are talking about a rule of procedure that is no longer up to date. So, also for others: 30.8. the rules of procedure were also submitted to the parent working body, and this is the one to which we give our consent. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u203	Madam President, I have already said in the introduction that, of course, I am presenting the comments that have been received by the legislative and legal service and our comments on the new proposal for a Rules of Procedure already made. Just so long as, of course, you have commented on my presentation, I would like to comment on your findings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u204	I didn't comment. I just want to prevent anyone else from accidentally defining themselves to a rule of procedure that we do not agree on today because we have a new rule of procedure. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. On the issue of anti-corruption, what we have seen in the SDS all the time, and we have also warned, has never happened a complete story. There's always something missing. The anti-corruption commission, however, does not have all the tools to work, it always lacks "what kind of teeth," it says, is a tiger without all teeth. Let's do it in a row. Almost a year ago, we discussed a law that was supposed to be abolished by the so-called Anti-Corruption Office, which was a government body, informed the new body, a commission that was as an independent body, which was supposed to be a guarantee of independence without interference from the executive branch. The disadvantage of such an approach is that it has been inoperable for some time due to its formation. Well, it's not like that. Therefore, in the SDS, we advocated the approach that the foundation of the old office, which we reorganise, is an obligation to draw up the Rules of Procedure and, if necessary, to be fully humane, but the body is operational at all times. The ruling majority opposed and voted in favour of suspending the work of the old office and forming a new one. The next stage was human resources completion and since one of the participants did not propose a member, the Commission was 'out'. When this happened, only a full committee has drawn up the rules of procedure that are before us, because without a document it is not possible to really work. That first document was, in effect, torn from the legal and legislative service. A new document has also come to Parliament due to an extraordinary meeting. And now for the procedural matter. If the opposition did not request an extraordinary meeting, we can ask ourselves when we could accept this rule of procedure. The question is, until when would we be without an anti-corruption body? This body, the commission wouldn't work at all. If I went back to my previous conclusion, I'd be toothless. It would've been a long time. Cocommission wouldn't have worked at all, so to speak, they wouldn't have. If the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal on the continuity of work were adopted, there would be no empty running, but you didn't listen to us, you wanted your own, you did your own thing, and now it is what it is. You could think of Churchill, who said if you didn't want to fix something, then you'd set up a commission. And once again, I would like to remind you that, in fact, we have saved you more in the opposition and that we will not be without the anti-corruption body. It would take you six months to complete the commission because we wouldn't have a meeting. In the SDS, we have always opposed such an awkward and delayed procedure, which is already essentially so designed that it is inoperable for a long time after formation. We can therefore support this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, we are aware that the Rules of Procedure need such an authority, even if the Commission is, I hope that it will not be purely "without teeth", so in the SDS we will not oppose and we will not oppose, but of course we have a lot of concerns and comments; or otherwise declared, if you have passed the law without us without listening to the arguments already confirmed, then bring the matter to a close and without us. We will abstain from making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. We know that, on the agenda, the decision of the National Assembly on whether or not to give consent to the Rules of Procedure of the Anti-Corruption Commission is in accordance with the law we have adopted; we know that we are talking about the Rules of Procedure of 30.8.2004 and we have taken part in the Rules of Procedure of the Labour Authority, where we have found that, on the basis of the weighty comments and opinions of the Legal Service, a new text of the Rules of Procedure has been drawn up which has fully summed up all the comments, views and suggestions made by the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, at a meeting of the home working body of the Committee on Internal Policy, her representative made an explicit statement or statement. In order to be able to implement the law in order to obtain the necessary tools and opportunities for a more successful activity in the anti-corruption fight in Slovenia, it is right to adopt this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, our proposal is to adopt it in the text, as it is presented, because we have no other option, and to lay the groundwork for the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission. I believe that the Anti-Corruption Commission will also be able to assess in due time and on the basis of the reports it is required to make on its work of the National Assembly whether there are any shortcomings in the Rules of Procedure that make it difficult for it to operate, to inform us of this and to propose appropriate amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Everything else is possible, of course, but I would say that it is a very double-faced position, which on the one hand speaks of the fact that in Slovenia there is no willingness to act against corruption, and which at the same time makes it impossible to define that effective fight against corruption should be launched, accepted, continuously put to question and prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues. Another proof of the good work of all of us, regardless of the political color of yesterday and today. Allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to present once again the views and facts they hold. I emphasize the facts and attitudes they hold. By the end of last year, a law on the prevention of corruption had been adopted. At that time, in the Slovenian National Party, we openly and honestly said that, for the first time, the law was late and, secondly, that the law was actually rules of procedure. The fact is that Gulliver's corruption is a giant in the country of Slovenian Liliputs. If you don't believe me, I'll give you proof, Mr. Boštian Penk's statement: "Corruption is a serious problem. The seriousness of the situation can be explained by the types of corruption that occur in Slovenia, which takes place at high levels." These are the facts and the evidence, the arguments, we're talking about. I didn't say until late 2003. A resolution on the prevention of corruption was adopted early this year. The Slovenian national party expressed a negative position when adopting the resolution, but it was not only the Slovenian National Party - argument and evidence. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the resolution in detail and has basically clearly warned the proposer, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the resolution represents only an act which is not legally binding in nature, represents only political guidance and the legislative and legal service has proposed that the resolution be given a common legal basis and power by law, I apologize. The legislative and legal service has pointed out a whole lot of confusion and errors, to a number of inconsistencies, to non-compliance with the anti-corruption law. It noted that the concept of corruption in the resolution was treated differently from the anti-corruption law. These are facts, arguments. She also warned that the Commission's tasks, that is, to prevent corruption in the resolution, are otherwise - I stress otherwise - defined as in the law. These are the facts argued by the legislative and legal service. The rush; the speed kills, but the recognition that corruption in Slovenia is and that there is and that something needs to be done for it, whether it is actually against corruption or it is - I will use the words that the ruling coalition has used in the past days - one of the sophisticated ways of electoral campaign. I'm sorry. We've known corruption for a long time, it all started at the end of last year, and now it's reached a higher level. Speed kills. Bad marriage - bad resolution. Finding, not ours, not the opposition, the Slovenian National Party, not the opposition of colleagues on the right - the legislative and legal services! And what is the conclusion of the legislative and legal service, as well as of the parent body when considering the rules of procedure, which must be? The findings are as follows. The text is supposed to be unacceptable. Conclusion: The question is, what else can be done in order for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted? How poorly the rules of procedure were written, however, the parliamentary legislative and legal service described on the multilateral side, and concerns almost half of the articles. That's a concrete argument. The Legal and Legislative Service has warned that there are many irregularities and shortcomings in the Rules of Procedure. The type of articles is unnecessary because the proposed solutions in the Rules of Procedure are already proposed in the law itself on the prevention of corruption. The disputed definition shall be mentioned in the part by which the Commission itself determines the content of the terms if they are not already defined in the applicable rules. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly recalls that the obligation to protect military or official secrecy is waived by the authority which has made this commitment. It is the responsibility of the body to do so, as proposed by the Rules of Procedure. The Parliamentary Legal Service is also a disputed article under which the President of the Commission could hold back or retain the Commission's decision in force if he found that its implementation could have harmful consequences. I do not think anyone in this Chamber can contradict my words: neither the members of the Committee on Internal Policy nor the colleague and colleagues in this National Assembly. You know, it is difficult to be in opposition, like the Slovenian National Party, which says that corruption is, is proven, and must be fought against. And then the government reacts right before the laborers with a bad law. Proven, reasoned. By a resolution that is even inconsistent with the law, proved to be justified. Once again: proven, reasoned. And the Rules of Procedure, once again proven, argued by the legislative and legal services are poor. And now, as a representative of the Slovenian National Party, I will say: everything is bad, we will not absolutely support the Rules of Procedure, because it is a rush, because writing is on the mind and because it is proof that it is bad. And then it'll be obvious, because you're the one who's giving the most warning about corruption. And you're the one who's saying that corruption needs to be stopped, reduced, prevented. The chess players know it's called, I don't know, I think it's a trip position. Yes, we know that in the rule of law we have a constitution, laws, resolutions and all the sub-laws that monitor and direct the situation. But I wonder what's better, having a bad marriage, a bad resolution, a bad policy, and saying, yeah, we just did something, and we didn't do anything. Why not? The facts are, we have a law in force, we have a resolution in force, and we will probably have rules of procedure that will apply. Yes, but, colleagues and colleagues, we also have corruption, which remains. And these corruptions with the adoption of the law, the resolution and the rules of procedure, and when we give ourselves our hands, thank you, no offense to what happened, it happened, and we will leave, some of us will stay or stay, that there will be no offense, others will not. What did we do? Nothing. It's corruption. I apologize, I can honestly say what the Slovenian National Party thinks. We are for an absolute fight against corruption. We are in absolute legal form – let's have law, let's have a resolution, let's have rules of procedure! Without rules of procedure, the Commission cannot work. The commission's in trouble too, I'm sure, because she knows that the rules of procedure are bad, that, as we say in the Rippers, "the meeting is confused". If “the gathering is confused” quickly, if it can still be corrected, let us correct the rules of procedure. Let's get him! But that she'd start working for the commission. Therefore, we will not oppose the Rules of Procedure in the Slovenian National Party, nor will we support it. Our aim is to start to prosecute corruption on a legal basis; these should be established in a timely and qualitative manner. Probably like elsewhere in charge of this next call by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u211	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the commission! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Among other things, because the legislative and legal service for the text to which we agree today has no comments. Interpellation of the government's work claims, inter alia, that corruption and clientism are growing across all borders in the Republic of Slovenia and that the government is not prepared and has done nothing to eradicate such social irregularities. It should be noted that it is in this mandate that this government has done practically everything and has built up a system of preventive and repressive measures, including legislative measures in the fight against corruption, which is comparable to those in the most developed countries. In 2001, a special government working body was set up - the Anti-Corruption Office, which, of course, cannot be part of a pre-election campaign. Two key anti-corruption documents were adopted in this National Assembly: the Anti-Corruption Act and the National Strategy, the Resolution on Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, which has been supplemented by the extension of the description of corruption offences, and for such offences, there have also been increases in the penalties at risk. The Anti-Corruption Act has set up a new body, a commission to prevent corruption which is legally responsible for the implementation of all measures in the field of conflict of interest prevention and public sector integrity and for the implementation of the national strategy. According to our assessment, all the conditions for the full functioning of the country in the process of preventing and suppressing corruption have been met. The LDS delegation also contributed a significant share to the establishment of a system of anti-corruption measures. In addressing the anti-corruption law, the LDS Group proposed a supplement to the law prohibiting members, managers and supervisory authorities from doing business in public companies, institutions, agencies and funds. With business entities where the manager or member of the supervisory authority or its family member is an indirect or direct owner of a business share of shares or other rights. In this respect, we have proposed, and the National Assembly has accepted that the treaties concluded in breach of this provision are null and void. Among other things, our proposal has created and adopted an amendment to Article 6 of this year's Penal Code, which provides for the possibility that those who run, manage, represent or supervise the activities of non-profit associations are liable for certain crimes that are typical of economic activities. We could even list it, but it seems more important for us to look at what the opposition has contributed in relation to the above-mentioned legal acts. It cannot be argued that nothing and that she did not participate in the adoption of these acts. However, it is interesting and not insignificant: when adopting the anti-corruption law, they opposed the establishment of a anti-corruption commission as a special fully independent, independent state body and advocated a special office instead of a commission that would be established and would also operate within and under the supervision of the government. After this solution, it looks like the opposition of the stake is still today. That surprises me. At the time of the adoption of this law, I think we have overcome this dilemma. In the LDS Group, we estimate that this solution is appropriate. In addition, they called for an extraordinary meeting on this subject, on corruption, customerism and money laundering, where they presented data on individual business events without evidence, in some way after our assessment of the unacceptable discrimination against certain successful Slovenian companies and then, through the law on parliamentary investigation, they tried to transform the National Assembly into an investigative commission and, in view of the convictions passed, possibly even into a court. There would be something else in this context, but allow me to proceed to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are an organisational act and we estimate that it is good. This Rules of Procedure clearly lays down: the organisation of the Commission, the mode of work, the powers and powers of the President. But we fear that today we will experience the opposition's attempts again to show all our efforts as meaningless and fruitless. We do not agree with this ourselves; politics has done what it has to do and what is in its power. It is now the turn of the state authorities, those empowered to detect and prosecute these acts, and to approach the implementation of the measures envisaged by the national strategy. And the rules of procedure to which we agree today allow the Commission to prevent corruption to finally begin its work. Now it's up to you gentlemen of the commission to roll up your sleeves and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable. The Anti-Corruption Act binds the commission to prevent corruption to the adoption of rules of procedure. Without this extraordinary meeting, it appears that the ruling coalition had no intention of convening a meeting and thus allowing the Rules of Procedure to be adopted and the Commission to start working. By electing the last member, the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission were appointed in the second half of July. The Commission is expected to be a new independent state authority, which will decide collectively, but without investigative powers, so the rules of procedure should ensure consistency in the submission of proposals for the exercise of all forms of responsibility and their compliance in the event of a breach and other positive legislation and in the event of non-compliance with the resolution. So wrote the motioner or the commission. The Commission should have a particular moral weight and value and should set an example for the functioning of all national authorities, and the proposaler also wanted to ensure the integrity of the Commission and all its employees through the prevention of polygraph testing of both public officials and officials. However, this article was then released because it does not have a legal basis. We believe that, without the authority of this commission, as a paper dragon that can only wave with its tail, corruption, which strikes itself as evil in our society, will continue its path, despite the law, despite a resolution which, as a list of wishes, has the character of an act that is political and has no legal effects. The legislative and legal services made quite a few comments on the initial proposal for the Rules of Procedure. The drafters of the Rules of Procedure, that is, the Anti-Corruption Commission, had already amended and completed the original proposal before the hearing on the parent committee, taking into account in most cases the comments of the legislative and legal service and, as stated, the significant Article 46, which referred to the prevention of polygraph testing of employees and officials. In our parliamentary group, we were already skeptical about the adoption of the anti-corruption law until the establishment of an independent and independent body, which is up to the Commission. We fear that this will be another commission in a series of commissions that will have no value, a chance to act. At that time, we felt that much more should be done in the field of persecution. The police, the prosecution and the court should play a key role in this area. We believe that there would be a need for greater professional responsibility within the bodies, greater control, less free assessment of procedures, clearer definitions and a delimitation of the policy area. Such a commission with five officials will require a large number of people who will have to service it, and this will also require additional costs, which are not yet foreseen for next year. Whether this novelty in our system, which should also serve as an example to other public and private institutions, as the proponents have written, will play a successful role is a big question. The role of citizens and citizens should be played by the entire state of administration with its employees and officials, and it is quite far from talking about ethics and political hygiene in the National Assembly as well. In our parliamentary group, we will not object to the proposal for a Rules of Procedure because we are aware that the Commission must only start working if it is already established in the law. It is very soon that the elections will be held, and it will also require monitoring of the incompatibility of functions and the wealth situation of Members and Ministers. Because of this, as the proposal has been put forward, we will not oppose it, nor will we undermine it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u214	Thank you very much. And lastly, this is the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, which will be presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, President of the Commission, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The determined fight against corruption, often intertwined by the fight against the illegal exercise of public functions, is often expressed in many documents both in domestic legislation and in international instruments. Corruption is defined in more detail by criminal law and by law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit corruption, which is the basis for preventive action in an area that in practice, and not only in our case, causes a lot of pride and general mistrust of citizens, both in the public institution and in other market entities. In particular, corruption is disruptive from an economic point of view, as money flows away on the sidelines, and is declining for investments or perhaps even for the survival of individual companies. All right, because of this or because of the prevention of such undesirable phenomena, the law provides for the establishment of a anti-corruption commission which provides for the establishment of a new, special and independent state authority in charge of implementing the provisions of the law. This is the only one that commits the Commission to start work when they are appointed presidents, vice-presidents and members, and that the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. In view of the fact that all members of the Commission have already been appointed, only the approval of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly is necessary for the start of the procedure. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we support the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, but we have had serious concerns about those articles and solutions, to which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly later drew attention, and they have been included in the updated and amended Rules of Procedure adopted by the Home Labour Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy, and is now ahead of us. We would like to stress once again, at this point, that we find the absolutely unacceptable solution envisaged in the original proposal to the Rules of Procedure, namely the introduction of preventive polygraph testing as a method of verifying the integrity of the Commission's employees. The proposal contained a provision that, in the event of staff refusing polygraph testing, this would constitute a breach of their duties and appropriate sanctions. With the aim of launching the work of the Commission as soon as possible and in view of the revised and acceptable proposal of this Rules of Procedure - we will also support it in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I invite Mr. Janša to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u217	It is therefore very significant that, at one of the last meetings of this mandate, we adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Anti-Corruption Commission, even though this Commission should, or even if the authorities should, deal with it from the very beginning. And something similar was announced at the beginning of the mandate. At least greater transparency was promised by the governing coalition. Then there were some complications with this government anti-corruption office, some unpredictable moves occurred and restructuring was needed. As my fellow Member Petan has already said, corruption and customerism are growing in Slovenia. So if you don't want to solve a problem, if you don't want to take it seriously, then set up a commission. And we got a commission to fight corruption. Who believes this commission will do anything? I'm sorry, it's just an extra expense; we have prosecutors, we have police and we have criminal police, we have courts. These organs should work instead of accumulation of judicial backlogs and the files falling out of the prosecutor's closets. At that, of course, everyone gets a fat salary. A commission is now being set up to make it feel like the government is doing something and to fight corruption. This Rules of Procedure are before us, if we adopt it or if we do not accept it - the effect will be exactly the same. It's sand in the eyes, fog in the time before the elections. Just in case, well, in case something turns up at the elections, this commission is also perfecting itself with people who will certainly not oversee the current authorities. Just by chance, a recent dismissal from the function of municipal councillor in Cerknem was requested by Mr Marko Thank you, if you wish to from 1.9., as of today, goes to work on a committee to prevent corruption. Mr. Thank you for being the director of the Idrija Auto Transport, when the company went bankrupt then, of course, got a job at the Triglav insurance company in Idrija [[He says he's still driving a car from the Triglav insurance company, maybe not anymore today, he's supposed to be on the anti-corruption committee today.]] . But think about it, this Mr Marko Thank you was the Councilman of Liberal Democracy in Cerknem, a well-known official of Liberal Democracy in Cerkne; today he has served on the Anti-Corruption Commission. You can imagine that Mr Marko Thank you from Liberal Democracy will now be persecuting, for example, Mr Anderlič from Liberal Democracy if you sit together, probably at some LDS meeting, in such or other combination. That's a farce, isn't it? Why do you throw sand in people's eyes and spend taxpayers' money? The whole discussion was now about a polygraph, whether to use it or not. I mean, it was quite typical that this would be the main thing, as if it were some kind of interesting thing, if someone who was burdened with various polygraphs and wiretaps, you gave to the chairman of the commission, then don't be surprised that he would suggest such things in the rules of procedure. But the matter was filled with political personnel, and now they're supposed to be controlling corruption in this country. Funny, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u219	Thank you very much, ma'am. We hear, we decide, we speak, but key things don't happen. I read in Finance months ago that Slovenian railways sold in some strange way some locomotive, by being a buyer [[These are railways in Milan.]] He said he paid twice as much for it as the Slovenian Railways got. Then I wondered a little bit, and I wondered how this thing might have been, and I heard that there was actually some sort of lawsuit. That the office now chaired by the President-in-Office of the Anti-Corruption Commission was already aware of this; that Mr President of the Government also knew this; that the Minister for Transport and Communications had been aware of this. But nothing happens! That's an interesting thing! Thirteen locomotives, that's not much, we sold them because we don't use them. I hope it was a smart thing - it was supposed to go at market price. The market price is what they paid in Milan, but Slovenian railways received 7.2 million less. And then you're asking a little bit more questions, and we said we sold one company recently created in Italy practically overnight, and it has ten thousand euro capital. Interesting, everyone knows, Slovenian newspapers are written, and we're going to take the rules of procedure. 7.2 million euros, respected colleagues and colleagues, but there are at least 150 non-profit dwellings in the Slovenian countryside. Would it not be interesting for us to start with concrete things once in our country? You know, it's not that important - well, thank God, it's already decided that we're not going to tie one of the other officials to the cables. You know what? Bastards need to be put in storage. Yeah, that's how we start, not the rules of procedure. And, Mr. Director, you know about this thing. There is a man who has assured me that the Prime Minister has been aware of this since March of this year. And what happened? Another rule of order! And I don't know, maybe we'll accept it, maybe not, but respectable fellows and colleagues in Slovenia won't happen through the rules of procedure when we really put the bastards behind bars and return seven million euros. If you don't like non-profit apartments, it looks like you didn't, because you promised to do a lot of them, and then less - maybe it would be a neat initial capital for the Slovenian library, for the National Library or some supplement for that hospital that Dr. Keber promises and now in the pre-election period we will start. What if we started to work in a way that would honor us in Slovenian for once? You know what? I think it'll pay off. Because this country, in the way that it works with the means that people trust us, does look like a broken pot, knowing only some have a cup down there to make it leak. Until there is an answer to where the 7.2 million euros went that the railways in Milan paid for these Slovenian locomotives - please do not boast about how successful the administration of Slovenian Railways is! This is actually going across the board. While we read that such strange things happen, they have a government that publicly boasts about how successful it is. It's nice if they're successful. Seven million more to go, and we'll be even more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Puck's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the middle of 1995, the then first commission, following the Act on the Incompatibilities of the Public Service, found, after two years of operation, what should be changed in order for the law to be effective or to arrive at, finally after almost ten years. From this point of view, I welcome the adoption of this Rules of Procedure. At that time, as an illustration of this, we quickly identified the violation of the law or the conflict of interests of two state officials, proposed to the then government to act, but before the end of the mandate, it was as if it had been possible to act. I am confident that such phenomena will not be repeated by the functioning of this commission. I also believe that it is high time that the Commission, which has been appointed for some time now, will finally act, even in order to remove the suspicions of corruption and to wash away those who have been innocently mentioned in the past period - or have repeatedly been exposed to their names as if they had been involved in corruption. And for that reason, it is time for the commission to start working. That is why I will support the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, he's not here. It's a likeness, and it's not. The defendant is not. Mr. Brenčič, it's not. Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u223	Very briefly. Thank you for your word. First of all, of course, the commission's task is not by law and the resolution we have adopted is not to persecute the perpetrators of these corruptions, for which we have law enforcement authorities. So in that sense, again misleading, czech, that's sand in the eyes, that committee. This commission, colleague Janez Janša, has a number of tasks and competences and let you read them! In this Rules of Procedure and in law and if you go to a strategy to watch, one set of these tasks. It's not just to replace the prosecution and the police in detecting these acts, it's not her intention. However, I agree, of course, that in the future these authorities, which are responsible, will also have to be further trained, trained and, of course, trained in order to know and be able to follow the ways of carrying out these acts, which are sometimes very subtle. Mr. Bajuk said, "You have to put the bastards behind bars." Please read again Greg Golobič's interview, which I think is very good and I quote: "When someone comes to power who claims to be completely clean and invulnerable at this point, then chitelism and corruption rule to the full." There are no clean customers and please look around!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Master Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u225	Thank you very much. This Rules of Procedure and also the Commission will in fact be a "paper tiger" so we see at the beginning how it is put. This reminds me a little of the story of self-governance when the party controlled itself and said it was always successful. It was more of a TV show, actually, she'd be driving away. I am sure that with this commission and in this context nothing will be better, Mr Pucko. I'm sure nothing will get better. Do you know why not - except with the change of power? Because the Constitution also means nothing to you but some of the rules of procedure that we are adopting today. On the Constitution you whistle, the rules of procedure too - thank you very much. I also sent you a letter yesterday, and I expect your response, or the President of the National Assembly. You took my word for it unjustifiably yesterday, I had the right to a replica, I explained it, and I expected it to be like a colleague on a human and professional basis because it was a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're at 2nd, then we'll make a deal on yesterday. Mr. Kelemina. Is there any more time? Yes, it is. Mr. Kelemina, please. You don't want to. Mr. Petan? You don't want to. I also invite the President of the Commission, Mr Kos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Most of the comments made referred to the old text of the Rules of Procedure, so as to comment on them a little later. I am pleased that words have been spoken that we, in fact, in an office that has been in existence for some time have been repeated for a long time. The Anti-Corruption Act, the resolution and these rules themselves will not change anything, and we will have to start working. But, in advance, there's a commission that's going to be a "paper tiger," and I think that's a little excessive. I find it irresponsible to discredit individual members of the commission in advance. Give us time, and you will see what can be done with this law, what can be done with this resolution and what can be done with it. When we drew up the rules of procedure, we were, of course, trapped in the framework that the law gave us. Of course, we've seen where the odds are, where the flaws are, where the mistakes are. Some of this we wanted to correct with the Rules of Procedure, and we quickly got them "by the fingers" that it was not a matter that could be regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, I am sure and I know that the Rules of Procedure will make it possible for the Commission to work well. For the things that we had to do, you will soon be able to make sure that the ones who will be the most "flapping" to our feet are the ones who will have to meet the next composition of the National Assembly as soon as possible. I am also pleased that it has been repeatedly exposed: for one of the critical points in persecuting corruption is the law enforcement authorities. The Commission will not have the authority to do so, but unlike the office so far, if I say so domestically, it will be possible to ask health authorities about what they are doing. As a result, we are confident that cases, as Dr. Bayuk pointed out, will become more and more rare. Because we were familiar with the story and then, according to our powers, we could only do what we could do, and that is what we - we gave up on the police, and then our powers stopped. The Commission will have tools to ask the law enforcement authorities what they are doing with the things they will get from us, not just with these others, so that you can be confident that as soon as the Commission takes action, we will ask those who are dealing with the matter, who are supposed to be dealing with the matter, what they have so far found. However, if I returned for a moment to the old text of the Rules of Procedure, which I would not have done if it had not been very bad words that the old text of the Rules of Procedure had reflected the mental state of its constituents. True, each document reflects the mental state of the composer, but it also reflects the knowledge of the one who composed the document. And if it has been reported to the drafters of this policy that they have problems with their mental state, then God help the Spaniards, the Belgians, the Poles, the Canadians and the Japanese, who are already regularly using the polygraph to test their integrity. You can be sure that this issue will be addressed by the next National Assembly, when we or any other body wishing to ensure its integrity will re-engage it in such a way that we or any other body will try to bring it into proper legal form. The debate that will then develop will make it very clear whether anyone has anything to fear or no one has anything to fear. If you talk to experts, the matter is very clear: honest people are not afraid of polygraphs anywhere in the world; neither are we. I am pleased that we are aware of at least the basic problems we have with corruption. Although the basic problem that we have in Slovenia right now is that we don't even know how much it is; we know where it is, we know where it is, how much it is, and we'll just have to figure it out. And you can count on us to speak a little more qualitatively about this matter within a year of the Commission's first report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-09-01-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I invite everyone to the hall because we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. In the meantime, Mr Drobnič, I have studied the magnetograms – Mr Minister has only provided you with information on the unemployment survey for the second quarter of 2004 6.1. You were talking about 2001, 2002 and 2003, and there was nothing to fix. That's for sure, the magnetograms are here, Mr. Petty Officer. That doesn't make any sense to warm up last day. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives its consent to the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption." We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 43 Members and Members voted against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Commission very much for their cooperation. I also conclude the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much! But to the Members and Members of Parliament in September, a cultural political game and a great success for all! Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the cooperation services.
