ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that there have been no predictions of the retention or absence of Members and Members. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 7th point and the candidate for the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 7th point, the representative of the Republic Election Commission to the 1st point, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6th points and representatives of the Council of Justice to the 8th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. 41 Members present. We will vote again. Please insert the cards, see if the device works [[right-hand side of the lamp]] . We are re-voting the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We have subsequently received information on the list of Members and Members who are detained and cannot attend today's meeting. These are Stanislav Brenčič from 4.00 p.m. on, Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Dr. Matej Lahovnik from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m., Breda Pečan, Milan Petek for the beginning of the meeting, Maria Pozsonec, Jožef Školč from 11.00 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., Matjaž Švagan from 13.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m., Jože Tanko and Villa Trofenik. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIDATES, WHO, IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. Members of the law on business perform the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who took over the government's function. The Republican Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidates have the right to replace Members who have taken office in the government. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, as the working body and as a proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly. Since there are no announced debaters, I conclude the debate. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At the time when elected Members who have taken office in the Government have not been able, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, to perform this function in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 2, of that Act as of today: instead of Dr. Andrej Bajuk Cyril Testen, born 4.4.1947, residing in Žagaryeva 3, Tolmin; instead of a specialist of the academic level, Andrei Bručan Polonca Dobrajc, born 8.3.1960, residing in Cigaletova 8, Ljubljana; instead of mag. Janez Drobniča Franc Capuder, born 16.11.1962, residing at Moravča 4a, Moravča; instead of mag. Andreja Visiaka Ivan Gril, born 12.2.1962, living on Tratah 13, Novo mesto; instead of Milan Zvonko Črnač, born 23.91962, living on Krajgarjev 7, Postojna; instead of Miroslav Lucija Jožef Ficko, born 12.1.1961, living on Brezovica 5, Puconci; instead of Franca Pukšiča Marjan Pojbič, born 6.2.1961, living on Sweet Vrh 35, Sweet Vrh. This is a proposal that we will vote on. Check your cards again. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and Members are invited to come to the Chamber. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I ask the Messenger and the Members to take their seats. [[...]] I congratulate them on their election and wish them a pleasant stay in our midst. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Andrey Bajuk, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. At the end of March this year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on corporate income tax on a proposal by the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the fundamental reasons for the drafting of the proposed Act was the fulfilment of the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to bring legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, which is why certain provisions implementing the EU Directives have been applicable since 1 May of this year. The application of these articles, in the middle of the year, is the result of an exceptional situation, namely the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the law will only apply in its entirety as of 1 January 2005. Thus, in this law, this is the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, and Council Directive 90/435 EC has been transposed on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries from different Member States with additions from 23 July 1990 concerning the tax regime relating to the division of profits between companies from different Member States. Under the Directive under certain conditions, double taxation of the divided profits received by the parent company shall be abolished so that the parent company is not taxed or taxed, but an appropriate deduction of the corporate income tax charged in the country of the source and the source State shall not be taxed by the tax evasion of the profits distributed to the parent company by the subsidiary. One of the conditions under this Directive is also the percentage of parent company participation in a subsidiary, at least 25%. In 2004, the earlier Council Directive of the European Union was amended, the amendments were published in the Official Journal of the EU and, in accordance with this Directive, the EU Member States should adapt their tax legislation by 1.1.2005. Thus, under this Directive Slovenia must amend this law by reducing the percentage of the parent company’s participation in a subsidiary which ensures the non-taxation of dividends at the time of cancellation or receipt by a decrease of 20% from 1.1.2005, 15% from 1.1.2007 and 10% from 1.1.2010. This extends the range of entities where there will be no taxation of dividends at source or at receipt. The further proposed amendment to this Act concerns income not bound by tax evasion. This law introduces a tax withdrawal from the interest which has a source in Slovenia paid to residents and non-residents. This interest includes interest paid by one bank to another bank from loans made by that other bank. If, as a payer of interest with the so-called grossing clause in the contract, the bank undertakes to assume this tax burden in the event of the introduction of a tax on interest, this additional burden on the borrower bank. In view of the above, a tax exemption is proposed for interest on the source of loans to be paid by banks from other banks arising from contracts concluded before the date of application of this Act. I repeat, before the day of entry into force. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also proposes that the tax regime introduced by this Act should be applied to the area of recognition of expenditure arising from the formation of insurance and technical provisions to be established by the insurance undertaking in accordance with the law governing insurance. The tax regime introduced by this law is more favourable than the regime laid down by the corporate tax law and should also apply to the 2004 tax account if the proposed amendment to this law was not adopted here. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. For these reasons, it is proposed that the draft law be adopted by emergency procedure, so that the amendment of the law can apply to the fiscal year 2005 and certain solutions can be applied to the 2004 tax bill. Let me just add that this bill and these amendments have been tabled by the previous government in the National Assembly that, in the light of the current procedure, the investment could not submit its own amendments, but supports those amendments that have already been adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u3	Thank you, Dr. Bajuku, Minister of Finance, for supplementing the explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee rapporteur to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. At its 2nd urgent meeting on 2.12.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered, at its 3rd urgent meeting on 14.12.2004, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 6th meeting on 19.11. that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In addition to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service of 1.12.2004, the Committee considered the following additional materials: the amendment of the Parliamentary of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for amendments to the Association of Banks of Slovenia of 1.12.2004, and the working material of the proposals for amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the context of the second reading at the 2nd urgent meeting, on 2.12.2004, following the presentation of the amendments and following the discussion, a decision was adopted to postpone further consideration of the text submitted to one of the future meetings with a view to defining a newly elected government until the legislative text. Until the law was submitted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at a meeting on 9 December 2004 to submit to the National Assembly a proposal to continue the examination within a time limit which would allow the text submitted to be implemented from 1.1.2005. The Committee continued its consideration at its 3rd urgent meeting, held on 14.12.2004. As working material, the Committee was presented by the Chair with a proposal for amendments based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 14.11.2004 to 4 and a new 7a Article of the legislative proposal, proposing that when adopted, amendments be made to the Committee as reflected in the following report. The Committee voted on the amendments and the individual articles of the legislative proposal and, pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, the amendments adopted at the Committee's meeting were supplemented by a proposal for a law which is an integral part of the report and which includes amendments adopted at the Committee's meeting. We consider the amended proposal to be an appropriate basis, so we propose to the assembly that, in the context of the second reading at this meeting, this proposal also be confirmed and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr Starman, for presenting the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Milan Cvikl, who will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present the LDS proposal for this law. We'll support the marriage, but we regret two. We regret that we were not able to discuss this until fourteen days ago, at the so-called extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, because at that time the coalition decided that the government must be defined first. The government only summarized the government's proposal to perform the tasks by 3.12.2004 and did not substantially change this law, so that the debate could be held 14 days ago. However, the purpose of the government was to be another. The purpose of the government was to deal with an important law today called the Act on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act. However, we regret, of course, that on the Committees, although there are several Members, including the SDS Member, the Chairman of the Committee agreed with some amendments, among which I would like to say a few words only about the amendment I have adopted, the amendment proposed by the representative of the Association of the Bank of Slovenia, who wanted to stress that with the amendment to Article 2 and that, of course, this second article would have been enforced throughout this law, there would have been a more equal position for those banks operating in our area and having domestic ownership, unlike those operating in our area and having foreign ownership or more than 25% in foreign ownership. At the meeting itself, the government representative said that the amendment was opposed by the government, although the government had not formally come to know about it, there was also no correspondence meeting at which the government could say so quickly that it opposed the amendment, which in some way establishes an equal position between banks in the domestic market. We have a law before us that practically remains as proposed by the previous government. However, we believe that, due to further justification from the Association of Banks of Slovenia, it would be appropriate to support the amendment to Article 2. This Article 2 is not formally open and, of course, the story is closed. I hope that, after further examination of the arguments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to propose further amendments to the law and ensure the equality of business between economic operators. We'll support the law at the parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Milan Squeakle. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We probably agree that the essential content of this law is whether we will decide to provide Slovenian banks with a worse position than other banks. Taxation of interest on interbank transactions paid to non-residents is the burden of our Slovenian bank. With this burden, the proposed law places Slovenian banks in an unequal position in relation to those banks operating in our territory that are predominantly foreign owned or have at least a quarter share of foreign banks in them. The question is whether we can afford such taxation of interbank transactions at the moment. Because of this law, we actually raise the price of capital that is paid in our banks when we borrow money from them. Putting domestic banks in an unequal position is not an EU policy to which we like to compare ourselves, as interbank transactions in Europe are exempt from taxation. Let me also point out that the law will be in sight because of the fact that there will be no future interbank taxation in Europe. The adoption of the law in order to place Slovenian banks in an unequal position for a period of two years makes no sense. The only reason we can find it lies in a promise made by the government to sell out Slovenian banks. When we asked them about the strategies and objectives of these sales of our domestic Slovenian banks, we did not get an answer from them. We didn't get them either at the hearings for ministers, and we didn't get them on the work force. It is clear that the law leads exclusively to the preparation of the terrain for the uncontrolled sale of Slovenian banks. Such sales by Slovenian banks in the UK Group of Social Democrats are strongly opposed. That is why I call on my dear colleagues and colleagues not to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group supports amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons relating to European Union legislation and consequently to the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. In view of the law adopted this year, it makes sense to supplement it in view of the elimination of double taxation of interbank loans, since the law has introduced a tax deduction for interest paid by the bank of other banks from the loans made by that other bank. In any event, the interest tax on the recipient of the interest. The proposed law will eliminate taxation on the source of certain interest on loans borrowed from banks from other banks. It is true, however, that paragraphs 2 and 5 of the Supplement to the Basic Law, which deals with exemptions from the tax withdrawal of these interest or Article 5, which determines the time-limit for the proposed amendment, refers to interest on contracts concluded after 21.4.2004 - whether it is in fact sufficiently clear to enforcers, since there is no tax obligation on any interest during this period. Given that the law will enter into force from 1.1.2005, the amendments and additions already proposed by the previous Government are necessary to adopt that the law will be implemented by the law-enforcement authority in accordance with European Union law and also apply the interests of the legislator. Therefore, we will also support the proposed amendments and additions to the New Slovenia Group of Members, and also what has also been proposed with amendments to the Committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr Josip Bajc, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Have a nice day. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are considered to have made the right decision by the National Assembly, so that a new government is also given the opportunity to identify changes and additions to the law or to the law in question that we are considering today. And since it is a matter of amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, the Basic Law to the greatest extent possible in accordance with the rules of the European Union as well as the Council of Europe directives, we support changes by Members from the Slovenian People's Party, as they were adopted at the home body of this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Respectable present. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it is necessary to put first the criticism of the bill's proponents, in the form of criticism that they send to this National Assembly, according to our assessment, of course very important, the law following the urgent procedure during a period which has prevented normal debate and the quality of the adoption of that law. From this title, I would like to point out the inadequacy of the procedure, on the one hand, to the Ministry of Finance, which has been placed in the position of a rapid review of fiscal policy, and on the other hand, the inadequacy towards the National Assembly itself, the work of the home bodies, in particular, in the objective of pursuing quality solutions, which, unfortunately, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, will be released from the content. Thirdly, the inadequacy of interested institutions, which will be over the law or which the content of the law will tange. Some of the reasons cited by the proponents are signed among them by former Secretary-General Mirko Bandelj, to monitor a basic starting point that should be positive, but I stress, and according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the implementation of these plans and designs is, of course, very bad for the further development of the fiscal system and all those which are subordinated to such a system. Allow me to highlight in the opening address of the National Party's Group the proposals of the National Party, which we have offered both on the home working body and all other Members and Members in the form of amendments, but have already been rejected on the home working body by 4:5. In doing so, I would like to stress another inadequacy by one of the representatives of the political parties, who, on the home working body itself, expressed criticism to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members for not coming to defend the amendment to the home working body, namely, the Committee on Finance, but to inform you accordingly. Mr, who, of course, pointed out this, the representative of the Liberal Democracy, should know that it is also because of their wishes that the Slovenian National Party has no representative on the Committee on Finance and it is impossible from this title to defend our representative of the amendment. In my opinion, of course, the National Assembly should not consent to such disqualifications of content. On the other hand, I would like to point out, or at the moment, the content of the solutions as we see them within the National Party. All the proposals that we have put forward have basically been based on the so-called practice, because on us - and I believe that all the other parliamentary groups - have been approached by different companies during the consideration of this law. The law, as it is stated, is, of course, very controversial in our assessment with the question of retroactivity, which is also feared by the consumers of the content of this law, and I fear from this title or from this place that we will meet with the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 68 in January. If not otherwise, we should be looking - specifically, I will say - to allow aviation to have the element that it will not be financially, i.e. fiscally, punished for its operations in the past. It is very unfair of the bill's proponent that he wrote the burdens in such a double way that half understands them in this house, half of them do, and all the law's users understand them in that form - so that they will be financially burdened, and we are talking about millions of euros, for the transactions they have concluded in the past. Therefore, we are likely to make a request for a mandatory interpretation of Article 68(2). On the other hand, in the National Party with the other amendment, we have tried to create something that should in itself have been created within our country - namely, the equality of Slovenian banks or those that are owned by us, with banks that own abroad. To our surprise, none of the amendments were adopted, which means that we cannot give support to the vote in the National Party. Once again, in the opening recital, I stress that we are both disappointed at the work of the National Assembly because of the inadequacy of the drafting of the Act, when it comes to individual positions, and we are particularly disappointed that the National Assembly, according to our assessment, has not found so much wisdom and obedience and supported the proposals we have put forward in the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thanks, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Squeakle, do you have procedural procedures?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Procedural clarification [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u17	Is it a procedural proposal for a procedure or should we stop? [[...]] Unfortunately, there is no replica to the presentation of the views of the Group and I ask that the representatives of the Group of Members take this into account and follow the principle that this time is intended only to present the views of the Group and not the controversy. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is to support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax. The debate on the Committee, as well as the very many comments and amendments, has shown that such important laws are very inappropriate to deal with under urgent procedure. Therefore, it is likely that further in peace it will be necessary to review and re-evaluate all things and the whole law, and perhaps in fact certain additions will have to be adopted. I think that due to the urgency of the procedure and the related deadline within which the law should be adopted, if applicable from 1.1.2005 onwards, further arguments and discussions have been prevented, as well as responses from all the applicants. However, I must point out that what we are not saying is that this proposal, which the previous Government has practically tabled and which this government has confirmed, is going on to the next hearing, brings some changes, which are necessary to accept and apply from 1.1 onward. However, this is about certain alignments with the legal order of Europe. It's a matter of some importance. I think and the assessment of the Social Democratic Party is that these things, this amendment to the law that is being considered, are so important and will therefore propose and vote for the approval of these amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Starman. I hereby conclude the first hearing and move on to the second reading of the law. Since no amendments were tabled in the draft law, no third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to submit, so we are moving on to a legislative decision. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Please check your cards. We're moving to the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? Thank you. We're voting. 67 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 11. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Andrey Bajuk, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law is prepared due to the various needs that have emerged after the adoption of the tax procedure law. The proposed additions or changes to the law can be classified into four content sets. The first set includes the additions or amendments necessary to bring the law into line with the Constitutional Court’s decision on the manner in which late payment of interest is accounted for for for a subsequent tax debt. Therefore, in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court, a change is proposed in the explanation of the decision, in which only interest which retains the real value of money is charged for the period from the occurrence of the obligation to the enforceability of the decision to the taxable person. At the same time, a different way of sanctioning these offences is also introduced, namely by misdemeanours. The penalty for offences depends on the amount of the unpaid tax and is expressed as a percentage. Such sanctions are mainly expected to have a preventive effect. The second set of amendments includes those with which we take over the Slovenian acquis and Council Directive 2004-56 amending Directive 77 on mutual assistance between the competent authorities of the Member States in the field of direct taxation of certain excise duties and premium taxes. The Directive refers to additional possibilities for the mutual assistance of EU Member States in the service of documents relating to the payment of taxes in other Member States and the time limit for its acquisition is 1 January 2005. In order to harmonise the law with the applicable principles, it is proposed to amend the order of payments if the amount collected is not sufficient to pay the individual type of tax with due claims and to charge the late interest linearly instead of the conformal amount. The fourth set of amendments can include those proposed by the Government on the RTV Slovenia initiative regarding the collection of RTV Slovenia's contribution. In addition to these amendments, this Act also eliminates individual editorial inconsistencies within the Tax Procedure Act and aligns the text with the legislation adopted after the adoption of the Tax Procedure Act - the consequences of very rapid procedures. Most of the changes are related to the entry into force of the tax procedure law in its entirety, which is on 1 January 2005. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that the draft law on the amended text, as set out at the meeting of the home committee, be supported. In addition, let me add that this bill was introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly following a decision of the previous Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u21	Thank you, Dr. Andrei Bajuk, Minister of Finance. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee rapporteur to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 2nd urgent meeting on 2.12., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered at its 3rd urgent meeting a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Service Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 6th meeting on 29.11.2004 that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Service should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the proponents, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 1.12.2004, the Committee, as a working material, also received the amendment to Article 5 on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Following the second reading at the 2nd urgent meeting, where a proposal for a law was submitted and part of the debate was introduced on 2.12., a decision was taken to postpone the proposed text to one of the future meetings with a view to defining a newly elected government until the legislative text. Until the law was submitted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia then decided at a meeting on 9 December, by submitting to the National Assembly a proposal to continue the examination within a time limit which would allow the text submitted to be implemented from 1.1.2005. The Committee continued its consideration at its 3rd urgent meeting on 4.12.2004 and voted on the amendments and individual articles of the legislative proposal and adopted everything. On the basis of Article 133(1), in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a supplementary draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared and I think that the supplementary proposal is also suitable for consideration and adoption at this meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr Starman, for speaking on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u24	Respectable. We will not support this law in the United List of Social Democrats. Although the tax legislation was adopted as early as April this year, the government did not respond to the call of the Bank's association, nor did it respond to the invitation to challenge or evaluate its decisions. The Association of Banks of Slovenia held a meeting of the Supervisory Board on 13 December this year, stressing that the Supervisory Board represents more than 80% of all Slovenian banks. At this meeting, it was found that they have been working intensively since the adoption of the tax legislation in April this year, but they are being put in place because of the timely adoption of the relevant sub-laws and business guidelines for which this government, and in particular the Ministry of Finance, is responsible. I'm asking you how it's possible to give someone a job without telling them what and how. Is it possible that we have banks in Slovenia that want to operate legally? No! No! This is good for this, so I do not understand the government's decision to object to this being against the legal functioning of banks. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that they are working night and day in banks to provide adequate information support for the proper organisation of business, but they have warned that they will unfortunately not be able to carry out this project without sub-legal acts and operating instructions. They asked the government to postpone the implementation of this law, but the government did not hear it on purpose. Who will bear the consequences of the bad effects of government decisions? The answer is simple, for the consequences of forcing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be forced to set back savers, clients of banks, their partners or if I can express myself more broadly, voters and voters, i.e. those who believed that Slovenia was waiting for better times. I don't believe that we can say that better times are coming if the first measures are similar to hitting the back, i.e. on the back of the electorate and the electorate. Nor will we support the proposed law because the government has shown no interest in explaining its decisions; nor has it shown any interest on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that is, on the main working body of this national assembly. They did not want to answer the question of what economic damage they would cause by doing so. "We don't know," was the answer or, better yet, "we haven't assessed." They came to the meeting of the working body completely unprepared, both from a substantive point of view and from the point of view of cooperation with the national assembly. You know, doing something just to make it look like something's done, it's not good. Smart people predict the consequences of their actions; this government obviously does not care about the consequences. When the government was appointed, she accepted responsibility. The ministers also swore to work for the good of the people. But I don't understand, are savers, communautaires and business partners not included in this category? I thought you'd be working for the good of everyone and not just yourself. Dear Members and Members, please listen to the voice of reason and do not support this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Aloise Sok has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Member of Parliament and the Members who have joined us today in this national assembly. But when I listen to these previous performances on behalf of the groups of Members, I have little idea what to think about it. However, since it is not possible to identify myself from this pay phone to the positions of the parliamentary groups, I will say something different. So what we are taking today is, in fact, the work of the previous government, which has actually put us in a time-travel position that we must accept this today in order for these amendments to the tax procedure to enter into force on 1 January of the following year. Well, that's what this is about. The new government has not even had enough time to define itself to all these changes. As a result, we have proposed in the coalition that this point, like the other two, withdraw from the reference to the previous extraordinary meeting, so that we have earned the right time. In the explanation of this proposal, the previous government, the current opposition, which says it will not vote for this, has reason to believe that this proposal is for editorial corrections resulting from the amendments adopted. Who took them? The opposition probably didn't. So today, almost one year later, they find that certain articles need to be amended as a result of editorial corrections. They further state in their explanation that the law must be brought into line with the law on administrative procedure. And that seems the most controversial thing to me. As if there was no time for one year to conclude that this law was not in line with the law on administrative procedure. It's actually a disaster. And the third matter, which is very important, is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The government in explanation - says the previous government - states that interest on interest is not known in either Austria or Germany or the Netherlands. In Slovenia, however, this had to be determined by the Constitutional Court. And only the Constitutional Court has said that in this country we are doing something that is unconstitutional - it is said that taxpayers are penalised through late interest. And if the current government opposed these solutions, then this impossible situation would in some way support and legitimize it further. It is true that the current government is not going to be able to say anything about this, but to welcome the immediate approach it has taken to the amendment and to support the amendments to this law. This law also introduces some logical changes, such as the system to pay for the order of these payments in the system to be regulated as is the case in all areas. After the introduction of a Council of Europe directive on mutual cooperation in this area to the Chambers and RTV Slovenia, it is possible to determine for themselves the amount to which late interest is not charged and, of course, what I have already said before not to sanction taxpayers for paying taxes through late payment of interest. This will apply from now on when this law is passed. However, I think, and in the Group of Members, we believe that the Tax Procedure Act will have to be amended in this direction in a short time, in order to slightly protect taxpayers. For apparently from the fact that interest may have been charged on interest, it means that today the debtor in front of the country means that bad article in the chain, which, of course, can be done to the state to love and desire. In this case, the Constitutional Court found this. I propose to the Ministry of Finance and, as the Minister has promised, that this legislation will be fully reviewed and prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which will provide greater security for taxpayers than the opposite partner in this process. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support this proposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues! As with the previous item on the agenda, we estimate that it is right that a new government has also been identified around the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law. We are just as surprised in the Slovenian People's Party as in Novi Slovenija that both on the working body and today the representatives of the parties who formed the coalition in the previous term oppose the changes and additions both to the previous law, given that, if I can use this term, the government has prepared these changes and amendments to the law. Similarly, I would like to join a discussion by my colleague Sok, who found out why, or the explanation cited by the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, some of the provisions, some of the laws that should have been known to them at the time. Above all, I am surprised, given that this law was passed in April 2004, it began, but I think that with the beginning of May of this year's year's month and that the basic law has been proposed by this coalition, which is now the opposition, and that amendments and additions to this law have been proposed by the then position, the current opposition. Given that the mother's working body has been defined on all individual amendments and laws and that the current government agrees with these amendments, we will support the Slovenian People's Party's Members' proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law, as adopted on the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Respectable present. My introductory part will be the same as the previous point, so we will focus on the procedure of the proposed law itself. Once again, I have to criticise the bill's proponent that this law is being sent into parliamentary procedure and, of course, also into government procedure, because the government and Parliament both had to define themselves to the content of that law by emergency procedure. In the meantime, it is necessary to take into account the fact or to take into account the fact that the Council Directive, to which the proposal for a law refers in its content, came to our country on 21 April 2004. So there was still time for the previous term, in the previous reference, to bring the law into life in a normal way, and to help the mothers' labour, as well as, of course, the government itself with the department of the department, by our assessment of the better law. As regards the sets presented to us by the Minister of Finance, it should be pointed out that as regards the first set, this is the so-called ex post determination or ex post determination of the tax debt and its related content, namely the content in the form of sanctions, sanctions as a percentage, in the National Party, of course, we ask ourselves, according to our assessment, whether it is a meaningful percentage approach, i.e. until sanctions are imposed in terms of prevention. So the first question of sensefulness, or rather the question of effect, whether the law with this assumption, i.e. percentage design, will achieve its effect. As regards the second part, namely the European Union Directive, as regards the transposition on the one hand between the Member States of the European Union and payment, we must welcome it in the National Party. Also part three, i.e. the order of payments. However, I would also like to touch on the texts of the law in explanation, under the objectives and principles of the law, where it states, "in the first phase, this can be achieved mainly through certain sanctions for infringements" where the initiator and some representatives of the positions of the parliamentary groups have informed us of the preventive effect of sanctions. In the meantime, let me point out that we are in this same national assembly or that you have rejected the penal code which was equally envisaged, i.e. sanctions as preventive, to reduce sexual violence, especially sexual violence against children. But then the government did not accept the need for a part of the National Assembly to accept this problem, so that sanctions can also act preventively. I sincerely hope that today the content of some representatives, who, according to my assessment, will provide support for this law, will continue to apply when we come back to the National Party with a criminal code that will sanction more strongly in terms of prevention, i.e. preventing the number of rapes in our country, and I sincerely hope that those of you who have adopted this theory today will be able to know and offer us an argument as to why the law is adopted then will do the same. In the next part, I would like to touch myself, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, on some kind of paradox of writing the content of the Act. See, it says "estimated other consequences" under order number 6: "We appreciate that due to clearer concepts and compliance with the rule of law, the law will have a positive impact on the relationship between tax authorities and taxpayers and contribute to the voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations." However, we do not believe that this law will give us a voluntary approach to fulfilling our tax obligations. I don't think anyone in this country believes there's gonna be a volunteer. On the other hand, the proposed material on the same page mentions sanctions. So I would only ask representatives of the government, or those who write bills to agree on or decide and apply only one point of content: whether it is voluntary or sanctions, but not all of them; therefore, in one paragraph voluntarily, we will achieve that people will be happy to pay taxes that I do not believe in. On the other hand, you can even tell them that despite their volunteerism, sanctions will be here. Of course, our assessment would be much better for the introduction of the law into his life in the new year, if we were not so paradoxical, according to our assessment of the very senseless phrases within. And to conclude, allow me to highlight the text of one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, who pointed out that the law will also be reflected in the additional protection of the taxpayers, i.e. the taxpayers, or in their greater security. If this will apply, at least in one tenth, then this is why we will not oppose this law in the National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group considers that the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act for the urgent and necessary amendments to the existing Tax Procedure Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2005 - in addition to editorial corrections and compliance with general legal principles, as well as with the European Directive. However, a significant change also relates to compliance with the Constitutional Court decision, which decided that the current arrangements for the charging of late interest from the date of the occurrence of the obligation, irrespective of the fact that the tax authority has found this obligation subsequently, in contravention of the rule of law provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the current proposed solution, in accordance with this principle, provides that only interest that provides for real maintenance of value shall be charged at that time. If this amendment had not been implemented, an uncoordinated law would have been applied by the Constitution on 1 January 2005 following the current regime which enters into force. That's why it's an emergency. At the same time, I would also like to make it very clear that the drafter of these amendments is the former government's tax procedure, and I would like to express my own surprise at the position of one of the parliamentary groups, specifically the United Charter of Social Democrats, which has announced that it opposes this law. As LDS will be defined, we will see later. Given how she defined herself on the labour force, she would consider that she was also opposed to this law, which is really unusual, given that the previous government, which was supported by both parties, was having a change of opinion with them. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group therefore notes that the proposed law, as adopted on the home labour body, follows the requirements imposed by the European acquis, the Constitutional Court and the needs of the current time, so we will, of course, support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u33	I thank Mr Dimitri Kovacic and invite him to the word magi. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act because, with the proposals proposed by the Government and, of course, confirmed by the Government, which took office in 3.12., we regulate a number of things that are necessary and it was therefore right to have an urgent procedure and to have a discussion as it was done. I would, of course, take this opportunity to explain that each Member can come to the Committee on Finance and explain its amendments and that this is not contrary to the order in this National Assembly, unless this order changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle, for the presentation. This concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups. We're moving to second reading. I take it the amendments have not been tabled. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We will vote on the law. Anyone want an explanation of the voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. The vote is closed. Of the 64 members present, 57 voted in favour of this bill, against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The main purpose of the amendments to the proposed tax service law is to regulate or extend the transitional period in which inspectors who do not meet the requirements of university or high professional education are required to do so only if they wish to continue their work as an inspector. A period of four years is foreseen to meet these legal conditions. At the same time, it is also envisaged that, in one year, this replenishment has not formally begun to be redistributed immediately to an appropriate position within the tax administration. In the event that a transitional period is not established to meet the conditions for the performance of the works and the tasks of the inspector, an increase in the number of workers already carrying out these works and having many years of experience in their work should be moved to other posts, which would reduce the number of authorised workers, which could mean a lower number of inspections carried out on the ground and, consequently, a greater risk to the revenue of the State budget. In addition, by amending the law, we introduce a new category of persons registered in the tax register. These are associations of persons under foreign law who do not have a legal personality. The third substantive amendment to the law concerns editorial harmonisation of the text of the law with the expression applied in labour law. We propose that the National Assembly should support the law in the updated text, as prepared by the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u37	I thank Mr. Minister Bajuk. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Committee rapporteur to present the Committee's report. Here you go, Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The procedure for hearing at the two meetings of the Committee, at the 2nd and 3rd emergency meetings, was exactly the same as when considering the previous two laws, so I would not repeat the same order of events to you for the third time. We believe that the amended draft law prepared by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy pursuant to Article 133(1) is an integral part of this report, which is suitable for confirmation at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much, representative of the committee, Mr. Starman, thank you for your words. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Martin Mikolić, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we will certainly support changes and additions, given that, from 1.1.2005, the tax inspection service has to work, which means, in fact, that a staff must also be provided to carry out these tasks. As has already been said, all these laws under consideration today have been proposed or adopted by the past government, and the past government has also proposed them in terms of additions and amendments. In fact, I must say that certain matters in the New Slovenia Group have somehow surprised us that there has been no analysis of the personnel available after 1.1.2005 so that this important function or important part of the implementation of the legislation can also be carried out. In view of the fact that it has subsequently come to light, I do not think that what has been discussed on the Committee is the most important thing, or that we will extend certain jobs to someone under the Public Servants Act, so that it is particularly important here that professionally qualified people continue to perform this important function in order that this is the essence of this supplement. In fact, this means that if we are to implement strictly, we will also ensure an adequate number of inspectors, professionally qualified workers with work experience or professional examination. An adopted law, which will enter into force with effect from 1.1.2005, would lead to a drop in the number of tax inspectors due to the conditions for education. As has been said, this refers to 73 of these persons or those tax inspectors. As I have already mentioned, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for the most important article of this supplement, which, by a certain period of time, allows for the current conditions or further training for those with a maximum of 5 years of work until retirement. The performance of the core tasks from 1.1.2005 would certainly be significantly hampered, given that it is not possible to provide adequate personnel in such a short period of time. That's clear. When I talk about adequate personnel, people with work experience in the field of tax legislation and, of course, an appropriate professional examination are concerned. It is true, however, that of all those who are going to do this kind of probationary work of inspectors, depending on whether they are going to do it after this time or who will have to leave the job when they like to call them young people with appropriate professional education who are waiting for work or are currently out of work. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax service law for the same reasons as the previous two. However, we are particularly pleased that a solution has been found that deals with article 5 of the amendment and the amendment of the law, or the new 53a. Article for all the reasons the predecessor has also explained that persons who are prepared, who have not received an appropriate school education, are allowed to continue to do this work and to receive an adequate school education in this article. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support amendments and additions to the tax service law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Respectable. The law now before us weighs, or has, the basis of, the same starting point as the two laws mentioned or discussed. On the one hand, it refers to the new modern concept of the voluntary payment of tax contributions by taxable persons and, on the other hand, in the same sentences or in the same content, it refers to sanctions, penalties or public tax obligations. I would really ask, on behalf of the National Party's Group, if, in the future, when we have tax laws, because we all know that taxes are the duty of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whether it comes from this option or another option, it is avoided by my assessment of ridicule or ridicule to citizens and citizens when it comes to compulsory taxes in terms of the voluntary contribution. In my opinion, these images are very humiliating to citizens and citizens. As far as the objectives of the laws that are before us are concerned, the law following us is shown in the first set of so-called harmonisation, to be in the field of terminology, the area of the addresses of the Commissioners and in the third part, which would give him more time, at least in the national party's parliamentary group, this is a requirement for the completion of the education and the period from the application, which the law gives to the appropriate person to receive the so-called appropriate education, namely, within four years for the performance of a kind of internal examination, I give a kind of internal examination. From this address in the National Party we ask a question, we sincerely hope that the government will be able to answer us sincerely, we hope - why the content of the law is not clear, there is a need for education. We would understand if new tasks were identified inside. We would understand the demand for new knowledge if the law defined new ways of tax specifications, accounting for anything. But none of this is defined in this content of this law. Then why are we asking for some new education? Only so that we can say that in our country's tax services, we have only Europeans with both education and education, even though they will perform the same or the same task as they did before. What is the point of requiring new education is to create additional conditions for acquiring appropriate education. So far, has she been adamant? So far, have the two employees had an inadequate education? I don't think so. We would understand, at least in the National Party's parliamentary group, the requirement for education, education, however much you want the law to bring new tasks for them and see that they were not in line with these tasks with their old education. But that's not what this marriage is about. Why did this happen? Perhaps one of the state officials in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had too much time and had nothing else to do and said that one segment of the workers would have to have a higher education, otherwise we do not know why, but it sounds good. Maybe we can brag about our inspectors somewhere. But in the National Party, we object to this kind of work, which is completely meaningless. Requesting some new education, some new exam, give it four years of time, or more or less, because it's not an important term without telling you why it is. Until such responses within the framework of the Slovenian National Party are obtained, such burdens should be borne in terms of time spent by those who must be subjected to this new test, to a test of what we do not know what will happen, we cannot support. Therefore, even under this law, at least as far as this work is concerned, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u45	Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group notes that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Service for Urgent and Required Amendments to the Existing Tax Law and these amendments will allow the beginning of the following year, i.e. as from 1 January 2005, when this Act enters into force, not to result in a significant part of the budget revenue from the corporate income tax. The existing tax register law does not contain associations of persons under foreign law who are without legal personality but are liable to pay the tax. Therefore, the proposed extension of the content of the tax register is to remedy the shortcomings of the basic law. On the other hand, the proposed amendment on the conditions for the performance of the inspector’s work allows for the continuation of the inspector’s work during the transitional period, even those who do not yet comply with all the prescribed conditions, but are obliged to fulfil them within an additional period of time, other than those of the elderly who are approaching the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement. If this law were not adopted, then it means that this transitional period does not exist and that all current inspectors who do not comply with this condition should be seconded to 1.1. That is why, of course, I cannot agree with my predecessor's discussion. However, this transitional period is enabled. If this transitional period had not been put into effect, there would have been a significant deterioration in the functioning of the inspection after 1 January 2005, as at this point 73 current tax inspectors do not comply with the conditions laid down. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will therefore support the proposed law, which will allow for the smooth and unspoiled implementation of the tax service law after 1 January 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor to speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The tax legislation adopted in the previous Assembly in spring, and I also agree on the basis of the proposals prepared by the previous Government, demanded a joint assessment of some amendments and additions. I would like to say my opinion on behalf of the UK Group of Social Democrats that, in a substantive sense, the new government may have some excuse to talk about whether it has prepared or not these laws thoroughly, but not in a formal sense, because in the National Assembly we have given the opportunity to the coalition and the government that the government has taken the necessary and necessary time to think about things and its decision today was or will support the proposed laws in this or other context, but we also know that they can or can be amended in a way that is not being amended by the government itself, but through agreements within the framework of the coalition parties. Thus, in a formal sense, he said that the government would not be responsible, nor would it be solely for how decisions are taken in substance today, in our opinion, are not justified. Secondly, what I would like to say is that the important content of the tax service law is in fact exclusively linked to the conditions for the performance of the inspector's activities in particular during the transitional period. Most of the words were found on the parent’s working body. I think it is bad, regardless of who did this, whether only the previous government or the current government, to discuss, not to coordinate, but to discuss this with the social partners and the affected. The new government has also promised to regulate all solutions, which are somehow related to the situation of the social partners, in order to carry out the necessary discussions, consultations in advance and, if possible, to agree that there would be no open issues at this point. As far as I'm concerned, there were no interviews with any of the affected unions, and I think that's a bad thing. I would point out that in the future, everyone would really care that such cases are as few as possible. As regards the conditions for carrying out activities during a transitional period, it is appropriate to say that there are different views and different interests. The affected, of course, want to have as many conditions as possible for the performance of the works, so that it is probably in the public interest to require such conditions as will also ensure the quality of the work. In this direction, discussions have also been held within the framework of the working body on our part. Whether the solution is ideal or not is another question, and in any case it is better than the proposed one, which was only too broad-minded to the reality. It is necessary to know that, already in April 1996, when we adopted a new tax service law, we laid the groundwork for the inspector to be able to carry out the work of a person with a high professional education and at least five years of work experience, then an even higher vocational education and ten years of working experience; that we had also foreseen a transitional period at that time and that that the transitional period of five years had long passed and appropriate education could have been acquired at that time or should have been obtained. Therefore, the solutions that are now proposed to have the right, without adequate education, to do this work are only someone who is five years ahead of peace and each other must acquire a higher education, relatively acceptable, and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Run. This concludes the first hearing and brings us to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. I ask, before the vote, does anyone want to explain their vote? First of all, I call on the Group of Members or those who would like to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. [[They're gone.]] I call on Members who wish to explain their voice. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I feel it is my duty to explain my voice because I have repeatedly pointed out that certain tax procedures are not being carried out in this town or in this Parliamentary Chamber of former Minister Marble. At our place in Prleka they say, "Fear a doctor with a book and a lawyer without a book." And I would add, "Fear not a sufficiently qualified inspector." I have a file with me - I will say it directly - from the Avian tax administration, where after three years the administrative court has annulled all the decisions of the tax authority. The annulment and, in so doing, found that the procedure was in complete contravention of Slovenian legislation. Even though the administrative court has found this, the tax authority does not want to return the matter to its original state of affairs, but still insists on its starting point and says, "The Court has annulled the second stage decision but has not annulled the first stage decision and therefore the first stage decision remains in force." Such an understanding is unacceptable to me because I once worked in an inspection, under the law of administrative procedure. What has happened to the party suffering from these decisions of the tax authority does not need to be interpreted. At that time, she had a blocked jury account, and at that time his activity had collapsed, and five people had lost their jobs. I think that at least part of it is that the ministry will ensure that everyone starts training within a period of time, those who are not, but unfortunately because of their own conscience, I personally, the Member will support, cannot support. I also wonder what the previous coalition and the government have been doing for eight years not to ensure that these people are properly educated.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, then I invite you first to review the cards and move on to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we move on to the next item, I would like to remind you that, given the progress of the debate, which is shorter than anticipated, it is expected that we will end the adoption of laws early enough today, and that we will, following a college decision or agreement to a college where it has been said, if we substantially conclude today's agenda, we will try to conclude the meeting today instead of putting the last two items to tomorrow. So much for knowing about the schedule you have on your desk. We hope that today we will conclude the meeting and will not have to continue tomorrow. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INCOME LAW - Urgent procedure. In view of the fact that we have not yet been working on the Committee's report, I propose that we make a presentation of the views of both the President or both the Government's representative and the Finance Committee and the parliamentary groups, and at that time we expect the report to be on the table. Otherwise, the meeting would be suspended. It seems, yes, procedurally, Maja Shirtz has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the Group of Members to vote to postpone the debate and decision on this item to one of the following meetings, it would propose such a procedural proposal, which I justify for the following reasons. This amendment to this Act was inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as inconsistent with Article 6 of the Public Finance Act, which clearly states that the law must have evaluated financial implications. In contrast, the government has proposed that this law has no significant financial implications. The Minister on the Finance Committee should present all the reasons that justified the urgent or any, even regular, procedure for the adoption of these income changes, but we have not heard these reasons. We didn't hear them because the minister didn't know them. The Minister also says that the income legislation will be thoroughly overturned in the second half of 2005 and we are therefore wondering why we are making partial changes today, even in the face of the Minister's repeated assertions that he does not have any credible and verified data for such changes. I therefore propose the transfer of this point and the decision to the next meeting, because we believe that there are no reasons for this proposal to justify the State being threatened if we do not deal with this law today. In short, the proposal for a law amending the Income Act has no commercial reasons for today's treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. You have heard a procedural proposal to postpone the debate and decision on this law to one of the following meetings. So that there will be no misunderstanding, I have previously put forward a proposal that is of a different nature, namely to hold a debate and wait for the report of the committee that is on the way to get it to the table. But here's a whole new proposal to get rid of this meeting or postpone it to one of the following meetings. Given that a procedural proposal has been made, Members' groups have the right to explain their vote or opinion. Three minutes. Any of the MPs want a word? Please, Mr. Sok, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u54	Just for a little while. We will not support this procedural proposal. The proposal for a law amending the Income Act contains all that has to be contained in the Rules of Procedure, and we must adopt the law by explanation before 1.1.2005. The reasons are given in the law and, of course, we will explain them in more detail in the debate itself. We are against this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Starman would like a word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we need to consider this proposal for a law and also implement the process of adoption. As president of my mother's working body, I have received a report, and I think it's only a matter of a few minutes here to share this material with the other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr Bajc applied on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Slovenian People's Party object to this proposal, but we join your proposal when you said that the debate was being held, and at that time we will also obtain the appropriate material. Yesterday on the committee, I think that all the data have been transmitted or, I will say, even quantified what may not have been in the proposal itself or in the material, so I think that the business provisions have been fulfilled that today's debate and the adoption of the law itself can be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u60	Your Honor! In view of the fact that amendments to the bill are envisaged or at least in my conduct, we would, at least in the National Party, assess that it would be reasonable to proceed to the vote on a procedural proposal by the Liberal Democracy in order to obtain these amendments. This means that we are trying or asking you if, before you can put to the vote, you can give Mrs Shirce a ten-minute recess to get the amendments, because at least this decision or pause in these amendments would greatly help in the decision of the Slovenian National Party on the procedural proposal submitted by Mrs Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Pece, as you have heard, wishes, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, ten minutes before the vote, which of course he has the right to demand and will also be realized. Mr Cvikl has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u62	Of course, we will support this procedural proposal. We believe that this must be done because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been violated again, first of all at the College of the President of the National Assembly, where the urgent procedure has been decided, without clearly stating that if this law is not dealt with in an emergency procedure, there will be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. There are no hard-to-repar consequences. The only consequence is that the rich will be less taxed. We therefore, of course, believe that there is no reason for this law to be dealt with under urgent procedure. Second. A procedural error and a breach of the Rules of Procedure was that, in violation of Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government, after having submitted a proposal which constitutes an infringement of the tax system in Slovenia, did not, in accordance with Article 115 of the Law, provide an assessment of the financial implications of the draft Law on State Budget and other public financial resources. Mr President of the National Assembly should ask the Government, directly under the rules of procedure, to supplement the draft law so that this law can begin its legislative path in the National Assembly at all. That wasn't there. The third paragraph of Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly provides that the President of the National Assembly shall invite the proposers to complete the proposal. If the applicant does not complete the bill within 15 days of the invitation of the President, the proposal shall be deemed not to have been tabled. The President of the National Assembly has failed to carry out these business tasks and, of course, we believe that there are sufficient reasons not to deal with this law today, that we should not be at this meeting at all, and that it should be postponed to one of the next meetings, and that is why we will support the proposal made by the LDS Club of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Potts, on behalf of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal to postpone the law from this session. There are two reasons, formal and substantive. As far as formality is concerned, it has already been explained that such consequences or such solutions, which are material, should also be quantifiable, easy for them, when it can be easily concluded that if you change the material foundations, there must be some consequences: whether this is tolar or this, I would say, a few billion tolars, or, as has been said at the committee meeting, as far as I am aware, perhaps even a few billion euros, although you soon realized there that it would be too much. But there should be material quantifications. Unfortunately, they weren't there. And that's the first reason. The other, as far as we are concerned, is substantive, and we would like to have a much more thorough argument with all the consequences of the substantive proposals, because we are convinced that indeed from many of the debates we had in the previous National Assembly that capital gains must also be taxed, we have found a solution that may not be ideal, but we did not object to it at the time, and vice versa, we have said that it is absolutely necessary. And now we're coming to another. The difference between one solution and another is very large as a result. I believe that it is consistent with the policy of the new government, which speaks of not only capital gains but also interest, but also real estate taxes and similar taxes with fixed amounts, but not relatively dependent on total revenues. As far as I'm concerned, it's questionable, because why don't we have the same taxation system as we have in the pay system? What I earn from work, I'm going to have to tax "fine" and what's earned from capital, I'm going to tax as little as possible. These are issues that we would like to think about in much more detail than possible in two days, and we therefore support the proposal to postpone the decision on this Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u65	Thank you for presenting the views of the delegations. Once again, Mr. Pache, before we vote on the procedural proposal, would you like a word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u66	In the national party, we estimate that it is necessary to obtain views or material for the decision on the procedural proposal, which is expected and amendments to the content of the law. I would therefore ask, if, for so long, I think, this will be within ten minutes, we will take a break and then vote on the procedural proposal tabled by the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u67	It would be difficult to ensure that the Liberal Democracy will submit the amendments in ten minutes. This is not in my power and it is probably difficult to condition a vote on this. I therefore ask whether you request a postponement procedure of 10 minutes, irrespective of the conditions. Good. Then we have a request here, so I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick her up in 10 minutes at 11.54.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u68	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We will move to a vote on the procedural proposal to postpone the debate and decision on this law to one of the next meetings. The suspension was requested by the Slovenian National Party. Does the representative of the Slovenian National Party wish to explain the position they have developed in the meantime? Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u69	Thank you. As for the first part of the statement, or the content of the procedural proposal of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, namely the financial consequences of the law under consideration, we must say that we follow the opinion of the legislative and legal service in the national party, and we do not have this statement. In spite of the basic positive trends or guidelines foreseen by the law, we tried to provide support to the parliamentary group within these ten minutes for an amendment that equates workers in journalism. Given that we have not obtained this support, we will also support the procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. I therefore propose to the vote that the debate and decision on this item be postponed to one of the following meetings. [[Check the cards.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted, so we continue to discuss it. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act with a proposal to deal with it on an urgent basis, for the following reasons. The new Income Act will apply as from 1 January of next year, so to speak, in 2005. The Government considers that the tax treatment of certain incomes should be amended in due time before the application of the law, in accordance with Article 86 of the Law, by acquiring the capital gains by taking on the principal equity share laid down in the second paragraph of this Article as a share of EUR 60 million in the capital of the company, which exceeds EUR 200 million, irrespective of the period of ownership of the bulk share. The government estimates that such taxation does not contribute to expected economic growth, the development of entrepreneurship and the development of the capital market, as it is disproportionately high, and therefore proposes that, after a period of three years, permanent taxation be made easier by determining the lower level of capital profit to be included in the tax base at 40% of the tax base achieved. With effect from 1 January 2005, revenue from agricultural policy measures and cash aid for natural disasters shall also be included in the tax base. Due to administrative complications and last but not least to budgetary reasons, some of these revenues will not be paid until early 2005. In doing so, the beneficiaries of similar payments will be placed in an unequal position and we therefore propose that such payments are exceptionally excluded from taxation in 2005, so Article 58 of the Law does not change, only as it will be implemented in 2005 for these reasons, which I have already mentioned. Third time. Public servants and officials posted to work abroad will be taxed differently from 1 January 2005 than they have previously been, and are also included in the basis of their income ratings obtained in foreign currency due to their official position. Let me mention here that, at its meeting on 24 December 2003, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision and ordered the Minister of Finance to take such measures to ensure that the situation of these officials and officials on behalf of the Slovenian State does not deteriorate. In any event, it is necessary to examine the appropriateness of the rating decision. This administrative work has not yet been done and it is very difficult to carry out in a few days. In line with international practice, these persons' incomes are always taxed in principle in a country sent to work abroad, and the government proposes that in 2005 incomes, including those of these persons, are taxed in the same way as before. We do not propose that this law should be amended in this area, but only that it should not be enforced in this year 2005. The government considers that the proposed solutions will not have a greater impact on expected income from income income in the coming year. The revenue of the State budget for 2005 is based on model calculations of the effects of the new income, taking into account the actual data of the income forecasts of taxable persons. This is historical data, and this can be verified, which has also been clearly explained in the draft law that this National Assembly dealt with in the spring. The same applies to the financial evaluation of the other two measures. For these reasons, we propose that you support the adoption of the law with the amendment of the Committee included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u72	Thank you, Dr. Bajuku. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee rapporteur to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members of the Government. At its 4th urgent meeting, on 2.12.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Income submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 8th meeting on 14.12.2004 that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Minister responsible for finance, representative and representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 1.12., the Committee considered the proposals by amendment to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the basis of the opinion and amendment of qualified candidates, namely amendments to the Parliamentary Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia by Articles 1, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal, amendments by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to Article 3 of the legislative proposal, amendments to Article 2 of Mr Jožet Tanka and amendments to Article 3 of the draft law of the Slovenian Press Agency. Following the discussion, the Finance Committee approved the proposed decisions and amendments to the Income Act and the amendment to Article 3, which is why the Committee adopted amendments pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, and therefore proposes that the draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, be supplemented to confirm the proposed amendments to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Starman, for the committee report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bajc has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. We have three amendments to the Income Act before us: we have three amendments to the Income Act. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support changes and additions to the Income Act, with Article 1 amending the provisions of the law which are in force and which change the amount of capital income taxation by 60%. In view of the fact that the legislation in force so far in this area exempts the taxation of capital income in its entirety, but with the applicable law that we are amending today, we have introduced taxation of 50%, we estimate that these changes are acceptable and will contribute to the ability of legal persons or individuals with this source of income to contribute to greater real investment in the successful development of the Slovenian economy. With regard to the amendments to Article 2 and 174, to which the new Article 147 is added, and which provides for the non-taxation of the proceeds of natural disasters and individual agricultural policy measures of the same nature, we estimate that this amendment is also correct or we will support it, and note the shortcomings that have also occurred to us on the Committee yesterday and that we cannot make any amendments today, given that this article has not been amended on the labour force. However, I would like to point out this because it can happen to us that not all decisions, both by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Agency for Agricultural Markets and by the Ministry of the Environment and Space issued in 2004, will apply to subsidies as well as to decisions on the recognition of damage caused by major accidents, are to be assessed in fact that it is likely that all those beneficiaries will need to be equal in this year or in 2005 to be issued in 2004 and will be affected by these benefits in 2005, as will any decision for the same beneficiaries in 2005. Thirdly, we also assess and support the amendment and amendment of Article 148, as adopted on the home working body, in the amended form as published in the Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bajc. Mr Pece has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u77	Your Honors are here! As far as the basic concerns of the Slovenian National Party's assessment of the Act are concerned, I must say that we support it. We support all those ideas and the realizations of these ideas that will lead to the decommissioning of citizens in physical or legal form in the context of a tax undertaking. On the other hand, I must say that in the National Party we support such a relief, i.e. a tax burden on the capital side as well as on the employee's side. In short, we're not going to get into a relationship. We are convinced that the tax burden on all entities in our country is too high, as we have always shown through the talk about the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the fear of the excessive revenue side of the tax revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment in point 3, under the objectives and principles of the law, the bill is positively monitored or taken as a positive effort by us to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian capital market and the competitiveness of the economy in general. I believe that it is the task of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of power to support such aspirations and such claims. Unfortunately, it is us that have blocked the competitiveness of the economy and the competitiveness of the Slovenian capital market over the past ten and several years. For example, I should mention the introduced law of the Slovenian National Party years ago, which is the takeover law and the anti-competitive law, where it was the national assembly, on a proposal from the then government, that rejected the desire to establish some strong concentration of capital that would be able to survive on the new European market. The consequences of ignoring Slovenian politics in the past can, of course, be felt every week in the last year of days when we find out that there are so many and so many new unemployed in our country, which comes from the title that the Slovenian economy is not competitive, that Slovenian policy is too burdensome for the Slovenian economy and thus causes its non-competitiveness. So much for the basic part of the law, which of course we support. We therefore estimate that it will be wise for the government to continue this trend in the future in other tax areas. However, I would like to touch on Article 3 or Article 148a, as amended by the National Party. According to our assessment, our amendment would make sense, blue and in terms of correctness, equality on the market would be supported. With the adoption of Article 148 of the law, which we are proposing, we would abolish, following our assessment, a discriminatory provision on the treatment of workers who are temporarily assigned to work abroad and are not public servants. With the amendment we offer you for admission, of course, the decision will be yours whether or not you accept the offer of the National Party would equalize the application to the tax state of public servants and other servants. So technically, with the amendment, we only delete the word "public". We would cause, or the result of, this kind of reception would be to align with the case of journalism, we could say, journalists or employees in the public institute of RTV with the State, Part, Dinner, with all those doing the same or the same substantive work. We find it wrong to make differences between the so-called public institution and other companies providing the same market service in such legislative experiments, i.e. in fiscal policy, by having even one subsidy by the State in the case of a public institution. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, competition in this area is also a basis for quality work. It is our job to allow for a show of competitiveness, to offer everyone equal opportunities at the starting point and not to reject them at the starting point. I therefore propose or ask the National Assembly to support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party when voting on the amendment by 148.a. To conclude, if you please [[End warning sign]] However, I would like to ask for a legislative and legal service regarding their position [[Even though we got it in writing]] in relation to all the elements that the law is supposed to need. The fact is that some parliamentary groups in this National Assembly have highlighted their view of the deficit in each area and I would like to gain their opinion once again in the course of the debate to vote on the content of all the elements necessary for the introduction of the law into the procedure. But we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Yelen has the floor, and he is giving it up. The following is Mr Starman, who will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendments to the Income Act. We have found that some of the provisions of this law have been adopted hastily or too extremely, especially in the area of capital taxation, where after three years this capital was practically not taxed - not capital, but capital earnings - and then we went back to the extreme tax option 50%. Therefore, we consider that this adjustment or reduction of this tax to be very reasonable, especially if we have been monitoring through the media developments in our companies following the adoption of this law, as well as the actual flight of capital from our companies. We therefore believe that this will contribute in some way to a better economic base and conditions for the development of the economy in Slovenia. For points dealing with compensation payments or charges, we also consider that it is right to act as a proposal for amendments to the law provided for, in particular because no one can be harmed by the administrative and non-executive tasks of the State or the issuing of decisions or payments. We also support the third part. The Slovenian Democratic Party believes that the proposed amendments must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr Swickl has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will not support the proposed law amending and supplementing the Income Act for the following reasons. First time. The law will make the rich rich richer and poorer. The Law amending the Income Act shows what is the most urgent first priority of the government to take office on 3 December. We wonder if it is true that in Slovenia it is the most burdensome work, why you are starting to unload capital, why you are not continuing to unload work. If there is so much room in public finances that the tax burden can be reduced, why not suggest, for example, a reduction in the taxation of copyright fees, or why shouldn't it be better for everyone to reduce their tax rates? We also realize that this will not lead to anything. They will still be able to avoid paying any tax, in closed stock companies, which, of course, you claimed to be the biggest source of customerism due to transition problems and I don't know what else, but you are now giving a big New Year's Christmas present. Another time. We will not support the law because this law starts to undermine the fundamental principles of the tax system in Slovenia, and this is in this - and we have been building them for 13 years, we have been building them consensually - to each contribute to the financing of public services, to the financing of the state budget according to its economic power. Thirdly, we will not support the law because the fundamental principles of public finances are being broken, which includes ensuring transparency and, as has been said, is in breach of the principle of gross statement between public funding balances for only one year. Mr Minister, Mr Špiletič and others have criticised transparency issues for a number of years as opposition Members, but now they themselves propose not to follow a single principle for another year. And for the fourth time, you're tearing down the entire tax system, and you're introducing a new tax system with new principles. New amendments to the Income Act were announced. I am pleased that today, when we vote to postpone this for one of the next meetings, which some members of the coalition have either abstained from this proposal, which shows that it is better to devote limited financial resources to increase pensions or, for example, to relieve the author's fees or other priorities, and this is what we have also explained that the main problem of the functioning of the excessively promising government, while at the same time reducing tax revenues, will actually have a negative impact on the work of the coalition. We have proposed some amendments, which we consider to be a real problem, that there is no way within the government to solve the problem of foreign employees, that is to say a key amendment, this amendment to Article 1, we have proposed that this amendment should be deleted, because we simply do not want to give more tax reliefs for 270 million dollars on one occasion. The coalition machine rejected the amendments and thus contributed to burdening the richest in Slovenia. This will bring about a major capital gain. All countries in transition have progress and countries that have implemented this tradition 80 or 100 years ago have, of course, a cedular. Nor will we support the proposal because the proposal points to the duality of the applicants. As a member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bajuk said when dealing with capital profit taxation, quote, "Let it be clear for this magnetogram, we have not proposed from New Slovenia or the SDS some cedular approach, as far as capital gains are concerned, this was only mentioned in the discussion because it is known elsewhere in the world." They know this elsewhere in the world, and at the first correspondence meeting of the government, I hope that all the representatives of the coalition have agreed, introduced into the tax system a new element of taxation or relief for the richest in Slovenia, and that is duality. Six months ago, to be against the cedualar, to be practically introduced today. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] And last but not least, a violation of the principles of gross expression. There was also a number of warnings to the Minister of Health, including to the Minister responsible for the pension system, the pension registers and health checkbooks will be held for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u82	Please finish your thought. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u83	Five billion less revenue. [[...]] For all these reasons, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Matjaž Han, United List of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Attempts by the finance minister and his entire team to help the rich in our country and further suppress the poor, we find the U.S. List unacceptable. Let me say that we cannot agree with the proposed law, which gives priority to capital before work, by all the Members and Members of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u86	Please, Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u87	The proposed deduction of 60% on the capital profit tax basis is ridiculous. Let me explain why the new government gives priority to someone who already has a lot today, and to another plan if it even puts someone who lives on the fruits of his work. In the event that we take into account the gross revenue of two citizens of one million tolars per month, the first being exclusively his salary, and the second being 80% of his capital income, we see that there is a preference for capital before work. The first will continue to pay 50% of the income to the state, that is, half of what it has paid with its work earned, while the second of its 80% capital income to the state will pay only 20% of the new income. For this calculation it is not really necessary to be a mathematical scientist, but I think it is necessary to be a social democrat to point out this problem. The essence of social democracy lies in the care of people. The essence of our government is clearly a fear of people, because it is obvious that people think that they are entering the work processes only as a means of production that is in the function of capital. Let's just remember what Mr. Finance Minister promised before the elections. I can expect the new minister to try to defend himself by the fact that only 62 million capital income taxes have been collected by the country under the previous law. I stress the word "only" or if I use the Minister's words, which both on the Committee on Finance and in the media likes to stress that it is a virtual zero. Mr. Minister, I warned you on the committee yesterday that 62 million is a lot of money and you can't talk about it as nothing. I want to know what the attitude of textiles and workers to this money is, in your opinion, to this zero. Finally, I also object to a completely unprofessional approach to the adoption of so-called tax legislation. Besides, I know you haven't been a minister for a long time, and probably your team is having a hard time following new assignments, and I'd like to respect 100 days of peace for a new government, but I'm afraid I can't be quiet about such proposals. If you had already embarked on such a difficult project, which, however, you have lived most of your life in numbers, you would at least present a number for any law, even if it were bad for citizens and citizens. We're not going to support this law in the United List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Horvat has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u89	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we expected at least the most urgent amendments to the legislation before the entry into force, due to the complexity and feedback of the professional public on the already adopted tax legislation, which enters into force on 1 January 2005. We have therefore carefully examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for parliamentary treatment and adoption following an emergency procedure. In general, we think that one of the main problems of our current tax system, the author of which is not the current government, over-taxed income from work and under-taxed income from capital. Therefore, we urgently need a long-term systemic solution in the perspective. In our Group of Members, we assess that the proposed amendment and amendment of the Income Act is necessary and appropriate for the following reasons in particular. Firstly, the establishment of a dynamic capital market is one of the conditions for the development of the Slovenian economy, the burden on the taxation of capital gains achieved by the removal of major equity shares or parts thereof means the creation of a more stimulating environment for capital investments, which is not favoured by the existing tax burden. Secondly, the proposed amendment exempts income tax from the same revenue from natural disasters and agricultural policy measures which were or will be partially paid in this year and partly in 2005. Due to the lack of budgetary resources for these purposes in 2004 and 2005, under existing income legislation, taxable persons with basic agricultural and basic forestry activities would be placed in a highly unequal position. Thirdly, if the proposal is adopted, it also means that public servants and officials, under the law governing the public sector wage ratios sent by the Republic of Slovenia to work abroad, are included in the tax base on income from the employment relationship in 2005 only those incomes from the employment relationship which correspond to income from the employment relationship which they would receive for the same work in Slovenia. These workers will not be placed in a worse position than they were before the entry into force of the new Income Law. On the basis of the expected positive effects of the proposed law, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group will support the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Bajc, Slovenian People's Republic, also has the floor, I am sorry to conclude the debate in the first reading of the proposal, and we are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have received the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 3 of the proposal. Please check your cards. Anybody want to explain their voice? First of all, do I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Cvikl will explain the vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please, for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u91	We will not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. We will not support him because we have proposed that this article be deleted. We have proposed that what the government has proposed should not happen, for one year, that we introduce discrimination to people who receive income and are residents in Slovenia, and that they do so either at home or abroad, or from a country- sent address or, as here, the proposed extension to workers who would be journalists or something like that. Therefore, of course, we cannot support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party because we believe that it should not be possible for the Government to propose this Article 3. We believe that the government should and these powers the government should have, on the basis of the law on the implementation of the budget, of course, the government should provide additional funds within the framework of the transfers made by the law on the implementation of the budget. For this is a legal basis; on 1 January, a law on income was enacted; somewhere from August onwards, of course, it would be necessary to provide additional funds on the budget lines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government Office for European Affairs and other services. The government has found - I don't know what the reasons are, perhaps because the Minister of Finance thinks that it can't be done by July or August - that it won't. That is why she has proposed the simplest solution. And this simple solution is that we will have two different types of citizens another year. In doing so, the substantive problem is as follows. If any of these diplomats, soldiers get hurt or sick, when they return to Slovenia, they will first receive a hospital in the amount of this salary, after one month, and after the burden of a health insurance institution, they will receive a hospital at minimum wage. And the substantive problem that the government is not solving is that these public servants are not provided with adequate health care or adequate pension insurance. It was therefore correct that the Income Act had unified this system. And the government, which is now deciding on amending the budget under the law on the implementation of the budget, could do so. However, the government has decided not to do so. The SNS is proposing an extension. Enlargement is inconsistent, inconsequential and, of course, we will oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Perhaps it is a shame that the proposer of this amendment, according to the Slovenian National Party, did not take advantage of this possibility and further explain the amendment. For what is written in the explanatory memorandum is not exactly what is written in the amendment. This amendment, in fact, from public servants, extends it to all workers, as it is understood from what has been written. This is not only, as the explanatory statement says, journalists who are working abroad, but you could actually understand, just all the workers who are sent by different companies to work abroad. And since these matters are not sufficiently clearly presented, we certainly cannot support this amendment at this time. We will support the basic version proposed by the government when it somehow translates this problem for almost a year. However, in accordance with what the Minister has announced, the Ministry will undertake a more thorough review of this law in full in the coming year. Now we will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Sok. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, he wishes to explain the vote of Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u95	Your Honors are here! I believe that all of you who have just discussed have also been present at the presentation of the views of the Group of Members. In the parliamentary group, we gave an explanation of the amendment at the time that it was available when the views of the groups were presented. As you can see, there were no applications for discussion later, which means that you cannot blame the national party. As you probably know, there are many parliamentary groups in this national assembly and only one of them is a national party. So don't blame the national party for the lack of debate on this content. However, I would like to emphasise something else, namely that the content of the draft law itself should not be reached. Yes, but the proposal has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this part, including in the whole part, but only this part on which we are amending in the Slovenian National Party will I focus. However, it is possible for individual Members or Members to change this. We've offered you the opportunity to change something you shouldn't even get to. In my opinion, this is a fairly proper and perfectly normal path. On the other hand, it has been pointed out several times today that this National Assembly and the Government will listen at the beginning of their term of office to capital relief or tax relief of capital. In the final stage, ladies and gentlemen, you now have another option to relieve the worker in a certain part. But it's your call. Not to say he's under-explanatory, not to talk about similar things. The same amendment was mentioned yesterday on the working body, there was a government present, you had a chance to talk about it today. But as I said, the decision is yours, in the National Party we offer something that we estimate will lead to the same starting point when we perform on the market. And, of course, this profession, which is particularly exposed to the explanation, is a profession that is subject to certain competition. At the National Party, we will not agree on the theory that the country already rewards someone at the starting point, puts them at a better starting point, and then, of course, others. This is all that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party aims to do. As I said, the decision is in the hands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Do you want any of the Members or Members? Yes, please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u97	The amendment that we are about to vote on is very attractive and perhaps many have no problem with it in order not to support it. But yet, like all the other articles, this one is also open in a very amateur way. Faced with this amendment, where, of course, the journalists are pleased to listen to it, and I understand them, but there is nothing clear about it. That is to say, the sector in addition to the explanations given by those journalists is still concerned. It is said whether we are still facing the opening of a segment here, even if there is a segment of what a wide segment of potential staff abroad is, from bank representatives, representatives of companies, agencies, etc., which are not public servants. It's not meant to be serious. Nor can they explain what the consequences will be, and here is quite a dilemma if we know that 250 000 of these contributions are already being cut down to one million in this direction. It would be very unserious to do so in a loving way without any calculation of any change in a rather high segment of potential users. In this respect, it is difficult to decide on the non-professional and amateur readiness of this amendment, especially if the government does not make any comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. I believe that there are no further proposals for explanations of vote, so I am going through Yes, Mr Battelli, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. I will not support this amendment because it contains a conceptual error. This is essentially public servants whose income and income are, and so on, determined explicitly by law. But private entities are something else. For example, we have a case where the government would still tax the revenues, so to speak, of diplomats, but at the same time the decision was to increase their personal income in the law. In short, in general, we should stop this logic by which, for example, in the Slovenian Army, we tax the tank. That's not how it works. I will not support this amendment, and I hope that this entire sphere of taxation of public servants will be regulated both at home and abroad in a way that will not undermine the people who serve this country and represent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Since there are no more applications, we are going to the vote. Check the cards. We are voting on the proposal by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 3 of the Act. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 70 votes in favour against 65. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 65.]] The amendment has not been accepted. I am concluding the second debate on the bill and moving on to the third reading. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Before voting, I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice. On behalf of the Group of Members first? Mr. Sok, please, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support this law, but I must say some points, because today there was a lot of demagogies here. It was a constant repetition, when the new government made the rich even richer and poorer. I'm going to read in an argument of this what I heard last night in our country of the most familiar people, these are journalists. The journalist said in Odessa: "According to the information we have, many managers have already sold their shares, a lot of capital has already gone abroad." The Minister of Finance has neither denied nor confirmed this. So he was acting like a gentleman and he said I didn't know that. Which is also the right thing to do. But, gentlemen, if you have already passed such a law that, at once, when the capital gains were not taxed, you come to 50%, which no country in Europe has, and thus, of course, reject any investment of foreigners and also of domestic investors in development, then you cannot do so in order to adopt a law before the elections, indicate what will happen after 1.1.2005, so that everyone can prepare and elegantly sell these shares off. Then it is impossible to speak, and it is impossible for a government that has given its mandate to report with such demagogic receipts, if you make the rich even richer. Even in the newspaper, excuse me, I can also say by name, because Mr Jankovic, and what other directors who have acquired certain assets during your time in power, have made public what they will do, with their last name and name. So if this government wanted to prevent something like this, she could have done what she was actually doing. Following an emergency procedure, he proposes to amend the law. And if any law in this country has grounds for urgency, then it does, because it represents irreparable consequences for this country. I would like to remind you of how many laws you proposed and adopted in the previous term in this National Assembly, which had no irreparable consequences. Just so you remember. You, Comrade Squeakl, of course you were not, but you can read the magnetograms and perform and the defenses of your colleagues who were presented here in this National Assembly. What's even worse is what we're talking about these agricultural subsidies. It is said that those who will receive money this year for 2004 will be untaxed, but those who, due to administrative and others, because there is not enough money in the budget to make it clear that they will get the money for 2004 and then they will have to put it in the tax forecast. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not that easy. The only thing that this government could have done was propose an amendment to this law following an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Sok. I would ask that there be explanations and not a debate. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Lakhovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote against this law. It is that before the elections we all agreed that the work in Slovenia is relatively overtaxed and that capital and property are not enough. But what are you doing with this marriage? You unload your assets, you unload your capital without at the same time deploring your work. Why did you start with capital gains? It is not true that all the capital has already run out of Slovenia. A lot of managers, a lot of capital owners, also have a few hundred million tolars. Under the previous law, if they sold those shares, they'd pay 50% of the taxes. If I sold a capital share of one billion tolars, I'd pay 500 million tolars in the state budget. And according to your proposal, 200 million dollars. 300 million dollars less will come into the state budget. That is why, of course, all the most powerful people in Slovenia thank you. We would also like to thank you workers and workers if they were to relieve their wages if they were to relieve their workload. And the logic of this marriage is wrong. Then why didn't you start by unloading the author's fees and other incomes from work? The second thing to be pointed out is the gross salary of diplomats, foreign employees. There has already been a speech here that the approach is completely inadequate. The logic of our system is that everyone also contributes to the health and pension allowance according to their economic abilities, according to their income. What you have just introduced is an exception to this rule. And we have a paradoxical situation, which has already been discussed here, that a soldier serving in Afghanistan, God forbid, I say, God forbid, he loses his hand or anything happens to him, and he will come home after one year and he will be on minimum income thanks to this law. That kind of rescue is unserious. If you do so, then suggest the withdrawal of at least our soldiers from all peacekeeping operations, wherever they are in the world. That's what needs to be done. Let's solve things by having a tail and a head. And if we did so, we would first unload the work and then try to unload the most powerful Slovenes and Slovenians. In view of these arguments, which, of course, I have now highlighted, the Liberal Democracy Club will vote against the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr Yuri, on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u105	Thank you, President. As colleague Han has already said, in explanation of our position, of course, it can be understood that we will all be against these changes. I would not go into some of the demagogic forms that we have previously heard by the advocates of these changes, nor would I add anything to what the opponents have said so far. The fact is, and I think that the proponents of this also realize that you have not done the right simulations. The initial changes made by the previous government were based on some principles and some coordinated receptions. What you are now proposing is a little, admit it, over your thumb - why not 15, why not 20, why not less and because we do not have the habit of jumping into empty pools and not even allowing us to see if there is any water in this pool to take up this time, of course we do not want to jump into such a pool, so you take all the responsibility yourself. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u107	Your Honor! Sometimes it is very difficult for a person to understand different views, which are at least judged by the national party to be at odds with each other. The entire previous term of office, a few years ago, was found to be too burdensome for natural and legal persons. We all know that in order to promote the economy, competitiveness needs to be burdened on the one hand with capital, and we all know together that work needs to be burdened. And today, when the government offers us a capital relief, you throw it away. But why? This would, in my opinion, if the law were not adopted, lose the possibility of an investment flow that would have synergies in all other areas as well. However, I sincerely hope, unlike the speakers before me, that the government will maintain this way of working as it currently has, and will approach lowering tax rates in all areas. In the national party, we will always and everywhere defend the reduction of tax rates for everyone in this country and we will not condition "aha, if you are his, then give it to him". Our strategy, as far as tax revenues are concerned, is a reduction in the strategy of the Slovenian National Party. People as capital bearers or as labour bearers are too burdened. And instead of everyone saying that the government has taken at least one step to begin this month, let us hope that it will take another step in the coming month to derail the work - to support the law with this traveller. But no. Obviously, some in this national council are not for tax relief to begin. In the national party, as I said, we will today support this law, as well as all those laws which will result in a lower tax burden, whether it will be for capital holders or workers. A Slovenian citizen or a citizen in any form must be less burdened by tax. That's why we're going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Does anyone else want a word on behalf of their Group of Members? I'm asking if any of the Members would like a word on their behalf? Let us write this down. Let me read them: Uhan, Kumer, Jerovšek, Rupar, Dushič, and Shirtz. Anyone else? Let me read: Petan, Uhan, Kumer, Jerovšek, Rupar, Širca, Gulič and Mr Cvikl. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] And Grimes. Good. He's got the first word on his list, Mr. Petan. I'm asking you to explain your voice for two minutes. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll explain first. The fact is, there were so many demagog things under this law and this amendment, that, of course, I did. Why we started with capital was somewhere to be heard. I'd say it's a good place to start. The previous government in 12 years did not start either with capital or with work. But why, at this very moment, the burden of this work? For a simple reason; because to do a simulation of what this will mean, it means the following. Let us wait until the new year, and we will see how much of what has already been announced that capital will move from Slovenia, and then we will see at the burning point what it means. It would be a very good simulation or a very bad simulation and then a reptile would be removed: "Listen, you had a chance, why you didn't do anything." All the capital has escaped you, everyone has announced, all the Slovenian media have been either full of threats or announcements about how the capital will move, and you have done nothing. And now some want elegantly to reject the whole matter, so this marriage is necessary, and all of a sudden there is no way to do it. It is necessary to gradually, and the rest I am counting on, as has already been the case here, that the matter will need to begin to be unloaded immediately in the following year. It's time to start. Maybe that's not entirely what we all agree on, but we need to start because it's absolutely necessary. On 31.12., we didn't make it up, but someone else made it up in a previous marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. I support the Law amending the Income Act also because of Article 147, which states that agricultural policy measures relating to 2004 will not be taxed. The minister said exceptional. I believe he is aware that the beneficiaries, the farmers, have nothing to do with this. 65 thousand, 70,000 farmers patiently await the decisions they make under law. However, there is a great deal of disorder and urgency in handling such matters in both ministries, as well as in the agricultural market agency. This mess is the legacy of the former government. I expect this problem to be resolved in its entirety. This means that taxes are exempt from all agricultural policy payments relating to 2004. That is why I support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u113	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will take this opportunity to explain my voice in a way that I will not support this law for two reasons. Because today there has been a lot of talk about demagogism, the Masters and Doctors of Demagogies would have quoted the statement or opinion of the current Minister of Finance. It was written on 7 April 2004, including the discussion on the Income Act, and the President, then the NSI, said: "The Income Act also does not tax the capital gains of the transitional capitalists after the latest corrections by which the LDS seeks to blur the facts, and it will not ensure a better future for the Slovenians." The tax reform, according to Mr Bajuk, is only the legal basis for the rich to enjoy even more after 2005, rather than contributing to the state treasury. So much for the dementia that was a month ago. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Petan, you had your chance two minutes ago to speak and you can call again if you want. Secondly, when it comes to Article 148, I personally believe that this is a non-systemic solution and I think it is also an unconstitutional solution, because it is simply that the citizens of Slovenia are classified as employees in two categories and we have taken advantage of this exemption as an executive body and not all other employees abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Once again, I ask you to take into account the fact that the explanations are an explanation and not a debate, because the explanation must not be replicated and thus, in fact, preclude the right of a Member to respond to the appointment and call or to the Minister, of course. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of this basic law, which the previous government has passed, which has been very pre-eminently demagogic. Now we've been listening to a fair of vanity and duplicity from your benches. However, it would be if you brought an amendment that would namely all those capital owners who, with your help, made huge profits and stated capital, do not apply to those exceptions. You could have done that. You know exactly what happened to those capitalists who, on the basis of illegal conduct, have come to large capital. But you could have done it sooner, and you didn't. And what you're doing here, you'd change this marriage even more radically if you got lucky with this demagogy to stay in power. We're all aware of that. I've never listened to Mr. Lahovnik before when he wasn't Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u116	Mr Jerovšek, please explain the voice, not the controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u117	how capital is a furry animal, but today they say purely different things. [[...]] And consciously, they wanted to cause some kind of panic in this country that didn't make them happy. And now be consistent, don't say anything completely different that you've been saying all along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm not going to personally support it, because I think there's a lot of arrogance behind it and in this marriage. Mr Minister said on the committee that the Minister was only five days old and that he could not, as he said, verify it with credibility and have no data. In short, we have a proposal for amendments that are not subject to data. Isn't it, at least I think, arrogant to citizens if he doesn't explain to them how he intends to tax them? At the same time, I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u120	Mrs. Shirca, the Minister no longer has the floor to explain your calls.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u121	At the same time, I think it is a political proposal rather than a professional proposal based on two "k"s, on the eligibility to capital and on the eligibility to farmers. I believe that the country is not so threatened that it needs these urgent changes. However, I fear that these urgent changes will put the country at risk. We are at risk because we have not been heard to point out the lack of respect for the rules of procedure and the law on public finances. Of course, I think what Mr Kumer has already said is that this change is contrary to your well-respected colleagues, the pre-election speech where you have flirted with the poor, not the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u123	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this mainly because the proposal of this law divides citizens into two kinds, namely those who may in some way be in a critical situation, whether it is a pension or a health condition paid from a better position than others. These things are not new, they have been happening in the past, but not in the last 10 years, but in the last 40, 50 years, when such ad hoc solutions have been taken, so today we also have from the same work, from the same pension, and of course so different remunerations for personal income in the case of a hospital. Obviously, this was not looked at, and I consider this proposal to be a present, and such gifts are a good thing to be afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u125	I will not support this marriage. I will not support it because after the elections in Slovenia we have new priorities. Together in the National Assembly, we adopted a law on income, the main feature of which is that, as of 1 January 2005, Slovenians and Slovenians, especially those in lower income classes, will be provided with 30 billion allowances. This Income Act has been passed and we are preparing for this Act. This law was the conclusion of the tax system changes that were based on some of the important principles of consensual construction in Slovenia, including that each should contribute according to its economic power. Now this system, with the first law adopted sovereignly by the new government, because the previous four, as you said, you have only summarized the previous three, are beginning to break down the built-up tax system. In Slovenia or Slovenia, several analysts have observed that one of the important advantages of Slovenia is that it has a good fiscal system. We started to build it on independence and with Minister Dr. Mark Kranjec, the first Minister of Finance. In those 13 years it was built, and now it's starting to collapse. There's no reason to bring him down in such a quick, urgent way. However, the government coalition has made a different decision. It has decided to begin to disrupt this tax system and break it down at points where, in our opinion, there is no reason for this. It is necessary to continue unloading work, perhaps it is necessary to take a few steps to increase taxation in the area of dead capital, real estate, but not to wait, as was said yesterday, for us to obtain regulation of the public base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u127	Thank you, for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I am only happy to note that if the LDS were so good at calculating in the past period and so successful at tax collection, because, as far as I know, some 150 billion remain unaccounted for, then today certainly this bill should not be dealt with at all, and so, of course, at the time of the election, in panic, it has taken some demagogic move for Slovenia to the detriment of which we must face today with responsibility and eliminate at least those, now all the obvious most harmful consequences for the Slovenian economy. I believe that it is very dual that it is now neither alone nor those who have also negatively defined themselves to this proposal, nor do you allow yourself or try to prevent the consequences of this pre-election demagogy from being eliminated, when it is clear that this is the only way that allows Slovenia to take a breath and prepare all that for serious, well-thought, thus different from those you have done, to intervene in the tax system, which will then allow for an even more fair and even and especially for the economy as well as for the economy as possible a good and acceptable distribution of tax burdens. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. No one has said in this debate today that, after the current law, if someone alienates a capital majority after three years, they pay nothing. And on the basis of this, respected colleagues, former governments, of course, 60 million Slovenian tolars have come from this title in the 2002 budget or 2003 budget, which seems to the representatives of the United States for such a country as Slovenia. Or is that really a lot, I ask you, with this title, that the state collects 60 million a year, but here you say that the richer and the poorer will be even poorer, with some making not a million profits under your rule in this transition period, but a billion-dollar profit. I think that what has also been foretold is that work will begin to decompress work and that, in fact, in the ruling coalition, we all support what is absolutely necessary. But at this point, of course, it is necessary to accept these supplements and these changes before 1.1. That is why, once again, I will vote for this law without any bad conscience, what you keep repeating and what will probably only be kept from this debate, so that the rich will be even richer and the poorer will be even poorer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first I didn't want to, but I would still say a few words why I would vote against it. In particular, because I believe that the sequence of measures in the design of certain policies, tax policies and the tax system is as important as the content of the measures itself. I firmly believe that this government, with these rapid changes, has made these changes at the wrong end in decommissioning capital, without proper analysis, effects and possible consequences, as well as for other possible measures in this area. At the same time, we have the burden of capital, capital taxes, at the same time it can be understood that other items, such as work, will also be burdened, and we see that the government faces many of the promises it has made in the area of increasing expenditure, and I wonder how they can possibly bring this together: reduction, taxation, study, I would say, public expenditure obligations, and some of those who here today, when they do so, will quickly pass the arrogance. These are fire-fighting measures, with consequences we don't know. When it comes to the 148th Article and the order of the Ministry of Agriculture, I would like to point out that the view should be directed at the coalition party, yours, who had so-called 8 years of the Ministry in her hands, except for the last few months, and ask your colleagues how they have arranged a number of jobs where you are criticising them today. Well, I'll vote against it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. Mr Brenčič, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Given the structure of public revenues for our state budget, it is clear that it is also necessary to introduce capital taxation, which is a European category. However, some measure must also be taken in such a measure. All revolutionary approaches, sooner or later, make a bad suggestion. And I am firmly convinced when this proposal, contained in the present law, introduced into the law on income law that the applicant in fact knew that it would be a pigeon on the roof, but unfortunately nothing in hand. That is why it makes sense to take a real valet, and there will still be a sparrow in hand in public revenue. Of course, from this title, I support the law. It is true, though, that we are no longer called upon to ask ourselves about the origin of such great revenue. If we had asked ourselves about this before, I am sure that the executive power would probably continue in the same composition as before, but that is the political reality. Of course, I will support the law because I am sure that it will have a more positive impact on the global public income than the basic law that had a revolutionary approach and would end badly as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u135	I'll vote against it. I was convinced by a member of the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance, who, I quote, said, "Let's be clear about the magnetogram, let's not stand for some cedular approach, as far as capital gains are concerned, this was only mentioned in the discussion, because it is also known elsewhere in the world." This Member was Mr Andrej Bajuk. The Magnetogram is two years ago from the Monetary Policy and Finance Committee. And I believe that his position at the time was better than the one he represents today as Minister of Finance, so I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else, please? None. Thank you. So, we can go to the vote on the law. The vote is closed. I note that from the 75 Members and Members present, 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONVEINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENTERPRISE SOCIETY LAW - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the eighth amendment and the addition of the Law on Economic Companies, whose main objective is the necessity of re-conforming with the European acquis. In fact, a so-called part of company balance sheet law, consisting of 4, 7 and 8, which, together with the relevant provisions of the regulation and the implementation of international accounting standards, is linked to the start of the next year. The proposal for this amendment of the law, which the Government has proposed in an emergency procedure in short form, mainly regulates the relevant balance sheet area and, when adopting it, achieves the time-conformity of Slovenian balance sheet law with European law. In fact, the proposed novel touches four key areas and contains four sets. First of all, the harmonisation is in line with the modernisation of the European Community balance sheet directives, with the emphasis on new evaluation rules, increased separation thresholds for small, medium and large companies for accounting purposes, and the harmonisation and adoption of international accounting standards. The second set is linked to the harmonisation of the company law with amendments to the law on offences, in particular with regard to supervision and criminal provisions. The third set consists mainly of the integration of some minor additions to fully comply with the second capital directive in the field of company law. And, of course, an important set of supplements is the legal basis, the renewal and shortening of the business registration procedure, which will be transferred to AIPES under the Interinstitutional Agreement under the project "Everything in One Place" on 1 July 2005. We believe that this is only the first step in creating a more friendly and efficient legal environment for an entrepreneur, which, for reasons of ensuring the up-to-dateness of business data, is complemented by umbrella provisions on the cessation of the business of an entrepreneur, both at the discretion of the entrepreneur and at the official duty. The provisions are designed according to the principles of better regulation of a more environmentally friendly environment for entrepreneurship and reduction of administrative burdens. The provisions of the bill are mainly of a co-ordination nature and give the user in particular additional opportunities to carry out their economic activity and the legal basis for the competent institutions to further derive these benefits. The absence or non-admission of this amendment before 1.1.2005 would also be linked to the non-compliance of the Slovenian acquis with the European acquis, but that is not all. It is also a business damage, as the acquisition of international accounting standards is in the business interest of listed companies. This is a matter of necessary changes, so we also propose them in an emergency procedure. I would also like to point out that this is, of course, the eighth amendment of the company law, that of course, the Ministry will aim to produce a clearer text as soon as possible and thus in some way more transparent regulation or a more transparent appearance of the company law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Minister Mag. A visor. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. This company law has received support and reflection in a number of environments, which I think is important. And not just in politics, but in professional and interesting associations. We therefore consider that it was an appropriate basis, together with what the legislative and legal service has prepared and with what the Ministry's professional service has drawn up, that is, a suitable basis for hearing on the home committee. The reasons, reasons and objectives for the adoption of this law are similar to those of all the laws we have already adopted today, and it is unlikely that it shows a particular emphasis on them. Above all, it is to harmonise what was necessary in relation to our new international position, as we have had since May. What seems particularly important to me is that representatives of interest associations also participated in the debate, that all the proposals that they had previously actively helped to prepare in the debate have also been supported, and that there were therefore no such specific concerns regarding any of the proposals that were submitted. Since Mr Minister spoke about the various levels and content of this law, it is probably pointless to repeat this, but it seems to me that it is okay and important to say that all seven amendments and three that were made at the meeting themselves were adopted unanimously. This is something special in our parliamentary practice, so I stress this and therefore I am sorry that there are no more Members here to hear that there are also committees that can work in such a way that if someone who does not know which party the code belongs to, I would think that they are party-specific, that they care in particular that they make a good proposal that will work well in practice and that they will also benefit us from Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u140	I thank Mr Rezman for presenting the report of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Boštjan Zagorac, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u141	Your Honors are here! Hotshot, I warned you twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u142	Excuse me, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u143	For next time. Today we have before us changes and additions to the company law, a law that is certainly one of the basic laws governing the operation and organisation of companies, and therefore it seems unacceptable to us in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group today to consider the eighth amendment of such a law. If we continue at this pace or if the government continues at the pace of the previous government, we will simply run out of letters to mark the amendments to that law. In our opinion, such a partial amendment of legislation such as the Company Act is unacceptable. The urgent procedure in this case, as the government wants to show, is that with 1.1.2005 something terrible happens if we do not adopt such a law today, there is little for the hair. I think it would be much more appropriate if the government were to make an integrated amendment to the company law, to bring it into line with all the legislation with which it is not aligned today - in particular, I would mention here the takeover law - but, if I go back to the changes under the letter H that we are considering today. The amendments lay down certain time limits for the first application of international accounting standards, namely, banks, insurance companies and companies listed in one of the organised securities markets with debt securities, may for the first time use banks, insurance companies and companies listed in one of the organised securities markets with debt securities to produce consolidated financial statements of international accounting standards during the financial year beginning on or after 1.1.2007. It would be rational to apply this also to those companies which have to produce financial statements from 1.1.2005. The reasons for this lack of harmonisation of tax legislation. Individual companies will be charged on a basis that will be established on the basis of Slovenian accounting standards, and companies that will decide on the group tax statement will calculate the tax base according to international accounting standards, meaning unequal treatment of taxpayers. Furthermore, international accounting standards are complex and complex. In addition, this complexity and their understanding make it difficult for them to be translated casually and not professionally. I am therefore convinced that the profession has a legitimate fear of using these standards precisely because of these shortcomings. The fact that the translation of 41 standards, 5 standards of international accounting, reporting, and 11 explained translated by a Czech translation firm is more than worrying. The fact that Slovenian accountants were still unable to get to know the standards that should be applied in some segments already 1.1.2005 shows what kind of law is before us today. Taxation of individual companies on a basis that will be calculated according to Slovenian standards and companies that will report according to international accounting standards, as I mentioned earlier, puts them in an uneven position, which is already being called after some constitutional disputes after 1.1.2005; if not by constitutional disputes, it is certain that the law is already referring to a new amendment that will be marked by a new letter. Such a law, such a partial approach in the Slovenian National Party, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Mr. Daniel Krivec, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law. The reason for adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the company law is to align the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Community. This is a condition for fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia under the Association Agreement of the European Community. The law of the European Union companies is constantly changing due to market requirements and competition, and new regulations and new directives are being constantly adopted, which, of course, require changes and adaptation in national legislation. The new company law, version F, adopted in 2001, aligned the Slovenian law of companies with the law of the European Union, with its directives and regulations adopted by that date. The new company law, version G, was adopted in 2004 with the aim of further urgent harmonisation with European company law at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Additional amendments and additions to the Company Act, version H, are also needed as a result of amended and new rules, notably in the field of European Union companies’ balance sheet law, which the Republic of Slovenia must take into its legal order by a certain time. The new European rules require an amendment to the chapter on business books and the annual report, on the application of international accounting standards, on the accounting reporting of companies operating on the capital market and committed to the consolidated financial statements from 1.1.2005. The requirement to apply international accounting standards is also laid down by Directives for banks and insurance undertakings. By choosing the transitional period to be used by Slovenia, the application of international accounting standards for banks and insurance companies is foreseen from 1.1.2007. As everyone is aware, all the amendments to the company law so far have been adopted by emergency procedure, which certainly has not been good. The former government has also submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure to amend the company law. It submitted it by reference to urgent compliance with European Union law. Since the beginning of its mandate, the former Government has known, at least since 18 June 2003, that it will have to apply international accounting standards and certain other amendments to the regulation of so-called balance sheet law in the company law as from 1.1.2005. This also tells us clearly about the creation of this acquis in the European Union. However, this amendment was submitted by the previous government to the National Assembly at the inappropriate time of the replacement of the ruling coalitions, late November 2004. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that as of 1 May 2003, the Republic of Slovenia has been obliged to fully implement the European Union's legal order. These obligations include the elimination of non-compliance with the rules and contractual provisions. In order to avoid consequences in the event of untimely harmonisation and thus avoid difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potræ, the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have already announced, in principle, at the confirmation of the Government, that we will support projects that will necessarily continue our definition of full-fledged membership in the European Union. It's such a project. New directives have been adopted, amendments to the proposed legislation are their harmonisation and we support them. However, I would also like to say that, because of the debate we had yesterday on the working body, it would be useful for us in the government, even in the National Assembly, to consider what to do with the translation of texts, what to do with the appropriate legal more or less clear terminology used in European Union law and Slovenia, so that we do not have a reasonable amount of warning, what and how we will then use in domestic law more or less clearly the texts that we will incorporate in the legal text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. He also has a Member of New Slovenia, Joseph Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u149	Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members. In the New Slovenia Group, I understand the adoption of laws amending and supplementing the company law also by aligning Slovenian law with the European Union's balance sheet law, so it is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia, which is based on the European Association Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, and the countries operating within the European Union, on the other. Since 1 May 2004, we have been obliged to fully implement the acquis of the European Union. The adoption of the bill by emergency procedure is therefore understandable, since timely adoption is particularly important at the end of the business year, and this is usually the end of the calendar year, since the type of companies will be classified as small or medium-sized companies after the new establishment of the thresholds for the classification of small and medium-sized companies, which will allow them to operate more easily in the next business year, while also allowing them to use any preferential criteria for small and medium-sized companies as well as other economic activities. The adoption of international accounting standards does not, however, give Member States a significant margin of manoeuvre, but those companies that have already fallen into a segment of companies which are required to produce consolidated annual accounts according to international accounting standards will have to apply the adjusted existing LAGs. The non-acceptance of the bill and its entry into force from 1 January 2005 would be linked to the damage and to the vague and unequal situation suffered by national economic operators at this point in view of the competitive economic operators of other Member States. For this reason, the New Slovenia Group will, of course, support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law in companies today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. The amendments were not tabled. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. Excuse me? Here you go. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll support the law, but I'd just like to express my full support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u152	Just one moment, please. First of all, who would like a word on behalf of the groups? I guess not. Who wants an MP, please? Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I will support the law, of course, but I would like to express my support for what has been said by Mr Porč and by Mr Zagorec. Indeed, it is the eighth amendment of the law and eight times to amend and supplement the law is, of course, too much from the point of view of comparative experience. This, by 1 May, justified the constant adjustment of the European Union's legal order, and from here on out, I think it would appear to wait, not of course to jump on the nose with legislative changes for each directive. This is how the regulations apply directly, so I agree that, of course, the laws should then be amended more roundedly, if necessary, more imaginative in terms of terminology. At this point, however, the appeal to the legislative service from the point of view of 153th front; of course, from here on, such changes and additions will apply again and again then be made public in the purified text, which will facilitate the application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Do any other Members want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. So let's vote on the law. We're voting. I note that of the 47 Members present, 47 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members and Members, we are going through, even though we thought we would have to postpone this point to tomorrow, but we were a little faster. Then we move on to 7. On 10.12.2004, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed that the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy be appointed by Dr. Ivan Žagar. In doing so, I inform you that Prime Minister Janez Janša cannot attend this point because he is present at the European Council in Brussels. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Home Committee for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. It follows from the opinion of the Committee that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. You have received the opinion of the committee. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee if he wishes. Please, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I am obliged to introduce to you the candidate or the course of the decision on the candidate for Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional development. Mr Ivan Žagar, proposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional development, presented himself to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development on 15 December 2004. I would not repeat in this place his CV, which you received by explaining the application, but would justify his candidacy mainly with his rich experience in the area for which he is proposed. Above all, it is his 10-year experience as mayor of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, whose mayor was and is now, and his experience as an alternate member of the Committee of the Regions in the EU. He was also active in some institutions, which are related to the functioning of local self-government in Slovenia. However, he gained international experience in this area when he participated in various projects in the field of Phara and Lif. This is where he established active cooperation with the Korean Slovenes, within the framework of the Adriatic Centre for Cross-border Cooperation. As one of the key elements in the decision on candidacy, he listed not only the unenviable situation in this area but also the coalition's relationship in this mandate to local self-government and regional development, which has highlighted these areas as one of the key priorities of its action. The coalition, as well as itself, advocates that only developed local self-government can be one of the main foundations of democracy in our society. Slovenia, however, appears to be extremely centralised by various indicators, especially with regard to the share of public consumption at local level. In the opening presentation, the candidate, who was expected to act as the Minister without a charter for the said resort, presented his main objectives: decentralisation of the country by regulating the status of municipalities, both in terms of increasing its autonomy in decision-making and increasing its financial autonomy, the introduction of provinces as the following stages of decentralisation of the country, and the reduction of regional disparities and the provision of comprehensive progress and development. In doing so, he stressed that decentralisation must be supported by all sectoral policies. Importantly, it will try to agree that the government service will cover both the area of local self-government and the systemic regulation of municipal funding. This is very important because the funding system of municipalities is one of the key elements needed to make fundamental changes in terms of the continuation of the political and financial decentralisation of the country and the establishment of greater autonomy of municipalities. The government service will also be involved in regional development and control the policy of the country's decentralisation project. In particular, he drew attention to the challenges posed by the drawing-up of funds from the European Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. Given that we have only organised the first level of local self-government in Slovenia, this level is currently the only way to draw these resources. It will therefore be necessary to establish local communities as soon as possible and to train them to draw on these funds. In particular, it is important to note that mayors and municipalities have found that the situation in the field of operation and financing of municipalities has recently deteriorated. He stressed that the municipalities could not influence this and that they were not sufficient from the country of the transferred obligations; therefore, too much and too much financial resources were not sufficient to cover these obligations. The coalition also estimates that, according to the powers and tasks of the municipalities, spending too low for almost a third of the funds is appropriate. The reason is also that a number of additional assignments have been assigned to the congregations in recent times without coverage. The candidate also presented a system for drawing money from European funds, cohesion funds and the introduction of decentralisation in the form of a second level of local self-government. In response to the various questions raised by the members and members of the Committee, the vote was difficult to expect, given its expertise and its extremely sublime answers to the questions, to be different from 9 for and against. Thus, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, following the completion of the presentation of the candidate, confirmed as a candidate for Minister and decided that the presentation and personality were appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much to the committee rapporteur, Mr. Rupar. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Genius, DeSus.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u157	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support the candidate for Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional policy without reservation for the following reasons. Mr Ivan Žagar, in his presentation, showed an exceptional knowledge of the area he would cover, since he systematically cut down all the content that is indisputably part of local self-government, regional policy and the decentralisation of the country, including in a formal sense, with the sense of order and professional approach. In doing so, it is particularly important to be aware of the livers and problems that arise in the fact that we do not yet have provinces that would, in many ways, be easier to solve the development and resolution of all those needs and projects for which small municipalities generally lack the resources themselves. The pooling of funds in the area of municipalities is not yet a practice that fills the gaps in the local time when, at least so we hope, we will establish the provinces. Mr Ivan Žagar was a sovereign answer to a wide variety of questions in the field of local self-government, municipal financing, mayoral action, of course also decentralisation and regional policy. Therefore, we believe that within the limits of objective conditions under which the Minister will take over his tasks, certainly and undoubtedly a candidate who is excellent in terms of his abilities and according to his demonstrated abilities, will be an excellent choice. That is why we will support him and look forward to working with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u159	Dear President, all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support Dr. Ivan Žagar's candidacy as Minister in charge of local self-government and regional policy. The competent committee of the National Assembly has already assessed its presentation as extremely good, as no member of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee voted against it. Dr. Žagar presented himself as a competent expert on local self-government at all levels, both theoretically or legally, as well as at the practical level, as he gained long-standing experience as mayor, and this successful mayor of Slovenske Bistrica. Such a website, according to the SDS Group, is very welcome and useful, as much work is ahead of us in the coming years in the field of local self-government and regionalism. But we can't even get past the data from his résumé - at the age of 30 he had already completed his doctorate in science and was a professor at the university. This leads us to believe that, in addition to political knowledge and experience, he has his teaching and scientific competence, which is also a very welcome reference for government or policy work. So Dr. Ivan Žagar knows exactly where we are in the field of local self-government and regionalism and where and what we want in Slovenia. Already in his presentation on the competent parliamentary working body, he highlighted decentralisation, which should lead to a reduction of regional differences. This is also the basic guide that we have written down in the coalition contract. In short, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support Dr Ivan Žagar's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u161	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! At the LDS, we are pleased that, with our help, we have also achieved that the Prime Minister for Local Self-Government and Regionalism has proposed a significantly more competent candidate than in the previous case. Even though we think it is strange that the former candidate has resigned herself because the reasons given in the letter of resignation are such that we are wondering why she has run for office. We do not consider Mr Žagar at the parliamentary club to be inadequate to perform his duties, but we will not support him. Why? The coalition agreement on which his work will be based is still very problematic and incomplete on a whole range of issues and points in this area. We also note that there is no adequate coordination between individual ministries when explaining the positions of the Coalition Treaty. As an example, the issue of funding municipalities and additional funds for their operations may be raised to a third by the text of a coalition contract in the work on local self-government. On the other hand, at the hearing, the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bajuk, quoted me as saying: "As far as the financing of local communities is concerned, if one proposes an additional 60 billion, the answer is very clear: this is not within the framework of the commitments that we have undertaken and which we must adhere to. "Well, it just won't be. The answer to your question and the wish of those who would like an additional 60 billion in this area is impossible." Pika. This was a quote by Dr. Bajuk at his hearing on the financing of municipalities at his hearing on the financing of municipalities. Both the coalition and the candidate are still very inconsequential with regard to the provinces or regions. Progress is the view of Dr. Žagar that it will be necessary to define powers and financial resources first, but we still do not know whether there will be overstatements, too much fragmentation and, at the same time, huge financial costs for the operation of such regions. In the LDS, we estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must quickly adopt solutions to enable municipalities to draw funds from the European Union funds, as they will need to be assisted in the demanding preparation of both programmes and documentation, and in particular to provide them with additional resources to be involved in such projects. We are also pleased to see the candidate's clear position that in the further fragmentation of the municipalities and their establishment, legal provisions and criteria will be taken into account in a consistent manner. In the LDS, we believe that local self-government at the first stage is so formed and there are 193 municipalities that are suitable and we cannot crush the municipalities all the time and all the time. It is true, however, that the current law on the financing of municipalities encourages such fragmentation. The local self-government celebrated the tenth anniversary of the first elections and the new municipalities days ago. Continuous fragmentation, which brings a lot of problems, distribution balances, border disputes and the like, makes no sense. Local governments or municipalities must act in a stable and not constantly changing situation. Although very small congregations have made great progress in their community view in their area, such as new roads, but such congregations do not have sufficient resources and are unable to perform all their functions, we can say that they are, in most cases, incapacitated. It is also difficult for such municipalities to operate adequately in the development area of long-term and broader projects. At the hearing, the candidate showed a great deal of knowledge of the area and also of the relevant views on individual problems, but we expect him to change this as soon as possible and to complete the coalition contract in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, United List of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the UK Group of Democrats, we have already expressed the view in the previous mandate that it is imperative to pay much more attention to local self-government and regional development than has been the case in the past. Unfortunately, we did not receive the support we rightly expected from the country's decentralisation project. We will also pay particular attention to this area in this mandate. This was also followed by the presentation of the candidate for Minister Ivan Žagar. There is much to be said at the presentation in harmony with our views. The provinces are urgent, said the candidate. We agree, but the path to the provinces is different. We still believe that it is necessary to change the constitution in three articles first and then to establish provinces throughout the country by law. The candidate believes that the provinces should be established from below. At this point we also find disagreements with the coalition contract, which provides for development regions that can gradually develop into a region or province, taking into account the interest of municipalities and the population. We agree, however, that when we first define content and funding and then territorial scope, the path is the right one. After Dr. Zhagar's presentation yesterday, we could conclude that there will be no significant changes in the area of the establishment of new congregations. The legal provisions or conditions prescribed by law will be complied with. This, of course, means that the will of people will only be respected if the new local community meets the legal requirements. Regrettably, the current authorities are not thinking of changing the financing law to encourage smaller local communities to unite into larger, more economic and more autonomous communities. It is true, however, that the Coalition Treaty states that the coalition will be financially and in other ways - this is quite vague - to promote the functional and developmental integration of municipalities. Of course, this is not the same, but it certainly calls for the establishment of a second level of local self-government. We agree with the candidate on the need for changes in the financing of local communities in the parliamentary group. The goal is greater autonomy of local communities. Above all, the Law on the Financing of the Communities must, as a result, reduce the pressure on the establishment of small municipalities. The conclusion that additional resources must be provided is certainly the right one and we welcome it. In his presentation, the candidate announced that the competent service would not only educate but also coordinate activities in the participation of municipalities in obtaining European funds. It is also important to note the candidate's assurance that the effects of laws and regulations before adoption will be checked in local communities. In the UK Group, we hope that this is not just a prediction that would only contribute to the likeness of the candidate programme presented. The Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities has identified weaknesses in its reports, but not only for our local self-government. The question of how to encourage young people's participation, participation of women and marginal groups in decision-making processes will need to be answered. The candidate agrees with the findings and considers that the weaknesses cannot be remedied administratively. As in each of the parliamentary groups, our opinions on the compatibility or incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions differ, and most are certainly in favour of incompatibilities. We are here with the candidate, because his opinion is that compatibility, when someone is an MP and the mayor at the same time, can even be useful. However, the Coalition Treaty provides for an examination of the possibility of the establishment of the mayor's professional function in larger municipalities. On this issue, the coalition agreement and the candidate are not exactly coordinated. But it is true that the contract speaks of exploring the possibility. While this would be a step forward, it would at the same time result in additional differences between mayors and mayors. I can conclude by stating that the proposed candidate is certainly a solution that predicts changes in the field of local self-government. However, we are not sure that he will be supported by the coalition that he belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u165	Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. By this appointment today, we will round up the formation of a government when we form another minister, a minister without Dr. Žagar's charter for local self-government and regional development. What I would like to emphasise on behalf of New Slovenia is what I would like to focus mainly on three points. First of all, the candidate for minister has designated local self-government as the foundation of democracy. For some in this country, even today it has been said here, somehow in this style, in this direction, that small congregations are too expensive. So they see the development of local self - government in this direction that it is somehow necessary for small congregations, despite their success, to break up and do, I don't know, some larger congregations that don't show up or turn out to be as successful as some do. They say that these small congregations are unable to perform all these powerful tasks imposed on them by the State and that they do not have sufficient resources for these tasks. The applicant also rejected this claim and said that he knew that these smaller municipalities were already in a certain direction, and in certain areas they were combining services and exercising certain powers together and that, in fact, this development, as Minister, would accelerate, but would not hinder the creation of small municipalities where the will would be expressed, on the fact that our citizens and citizens would be aware that, when they receive a right to set up a congregation, they would also assume certain duties. The Minister's candidate made a very high demand for municipal autonomy. This means that the municipalities have not been repossessed over and over again without the provision of certain financial resources at the same time. The candidate announced financial decentralisation, i.e. if we are talking about decentralisation in Slovenia today, then we are primarily thinking about decentralisation of funds, which is what is written in the coalition contract in order to provide more funding to the municipalities, i.e. those who will be transferred by the State to the municipalities, and to separate those funds that are intended for the functioning of the tasks in the municipalities from those intended for investment. In fact, the candidate presented what the opposition had in the previous mandate all the time that it wanted to change the constitution, and also advocated, namely that a law on the province should be adopted first or, if you want, on the regions in which it would be written down, what would actually be done and that, at the same time, the law on the financing of these provinces should be adopted, when, of course, the municipalities would be known and would know what financial resources these new provinces would actually operate with. When we adopt these two laws in the National Assembly, then it will be possible for the province to become easier because the congregations themselves will be brought together from the ground up into the provinces. As regards the use of various European funds, structural funds and cohesion funds, the candidate announced that he would commit himself to dividing the state of Slovenia into three development regions, we have already discussed this. It says that the central part is somehow exempted from the common region and that two more regions are set up in the south and north of the central part, so that they can run on the various calls that the European Union is making. The candidate presented the problems very well when we are talking about more coherent regional development. Of course, he knows this very well, because for 10 years he is the mayor of one of the major Slovenian municipalities. For 10 years, it is estimated that this congregation led quite successfully. And since it is a congregation where there is a rural area, of course, the problems that such congregations have are very well - known and it is to believe that they will deal with these problems in the right way. Let me finish. In Novi Slovenija we will support Dr. Žagar's candidate. His presentation was not only appropriate, I could say that even a very good one, which also shows the result of the vote, because, in fact, no one, including the opposition, voted against the candidate. However, as regards the coalition contract, which is recalled to be some kind of disagreement and similar, and that the state will not have the money to increase the financial autonomy of the municipalities, all this is possible, of course, is possible by restructuring the financial resources available to that country. However, when a coalition contract is read, it must always be read in full. The entire policy of this government will aim to ensure that Slovenia assumes the euro as a means of payment in 2007 and, of course, all the other tasks enshrined in the Coalition Treaty will be subordinated to this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Prime Minister's proposal is good and that Dr Ivan Žagar is not an unwritten paper sheet, but it shows a good knowledge of a man who knows the issue of both local self-government and of course complete regional development. It also has great experience from the Committee of the Regions in the European Union and, of course, as a long-standing mayor of the municipality. Despite the stated principle of coherent regional development, Slovenia is increasingly centralising, of course we see this at every step and always. Therefore, as Minister, he will have a lot of challenges to turn the wagon into the right direction, and Dr Ivan Žagar has the right knowledge and energy to do so, so we will support him in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much. And Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues, esteemed colleagues. At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I would like to highlight essentially one point that we have pointed out when we confirmed the names of ministers in the first package. It is true that at that time we raised the dilemma or that it would be reasonable to discuss and confirm every minister or candidate or minister in particular. Well, we've actually achieved this after the complications today, but I'm not going to discuss it long and wide. Let me begin by saying, in fact, what is the position of the Slovenian National Party towards the candidate, which is actually confirmed today. In the Slovenian National Party, we are fundamentally aware of the importance and weight of the Minister responsible for local self-government and regional development. After all, our work, the work of the Slovenian National Party, in the past mandate was based largely on the emphasis and aspirations of policy-making, which will follow coherent regional development. It is true, however, that such aspirations have often been overheared, mostly by the then ruling coalition, including DeSUS Regional Development Ministers. Given the weight that the European Union, as well as the internal needs, would have to bear in mind here only the underdeveloped regions, this ministry must have, and in view of the initial complications of the new government, which, of course, I have already mentioned in the first failed round of appointment of a government or a specific minister or minister, there are doubts that the existing government is also not aware of the well enough development or importance of the whole of Slovenia. One very important question, or dilemma, is asked. You do not want to, because the candidate for a minister comes from a party that has been particularly zealous in the pre-European elections period providing one euro region, which means that Slovenia clearly falls out of the network of European money recipients; even more, the consequences, in the long term, of course, can also mean moving and thus losing important centres from our country across the border. This is not only a financial deficit, but it even means a loss of autonomy over its own country. Although the candidate for minister knows the option of dividing Slovenia into two or three Euroregions, without content without specific data. After all, the candidate does not even know the distinction that is most important in terms of obtaining European funds, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment. Another important issue we need to draw attention to in the Slovenian National Party. We are surprised that the candidate in his presentation on the working body has not criticized the law on the capital, namely, the law on the capital clearly legitimizes centralisation or so-called institutional centralism, by which all three branches of government and other important international institutions in Ljubljana will be established. A well-intentioned note to the candidate or advice that should be his first task in adopting the Government Act at the first meeting of the new National Assembly was adopted by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which actually allows the transfer or dislocation of ministries or the exhibition of individual ministries throughout Slovenia. Let me briefly touch the areas of local self-government. The Slovenian National Party tends to reach self-sufficient local communities, and the fact is that there are already more than 190 municipalities in Slovenia, not all of which are able to handle their tasks and are already many of them on the back of the country. The Coalition Treaty seeks to do just that, i.e. to increase the number of municipalities which are strongly opposed in the Slovenian National Party. The second level of local self-government, or province, indicates a poor vision of the new government or minister. There is no answer as to what powers of this second level and what resources, in fact, should be their own and also those transferred by the State. Maybe a word or two about incompatibilities. In the Slovenian National Party, we have repeatedly stressed that the function of the legislative branch of the power and the executive branch or the parliamentary function is incompatible with the mayor's function, which, of course, will also be attached to this mandate and, unfortunately, at this point, we cannot agree or attach the candidate to the new minister. It's over. We are prepared to participate constructively in the Slovenian National Party. If, of course, the new Minister, if approved today, follows a positive policy in the area of decentralisation or coherent regional development, then, of course, we will also stand behind him and support his work in the Slovenian National Party. On the basis of the presentation on the working body, however, the candidate we are discussing today is certainly a better choice than the first proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There's a lot of log-ins. Some people quit. The word is Mira Friday SDS. [[You're giving up. Thank you very much.]] Anton Anderlich. I understand he's not in the hall. Breda Pecan is written, the United List of Social Democrats. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament. I want to discuss it, I want to discuss it, but I don't know who to discuss it with. The proposaler is not in the Chamber, it was said that he is, of course, justified. Important themes for Slovenia are happening in Brussels today. Of course, we have not been able to discuss them in this national assembly, nor have we been able to discuss them in some committees. And he's not here. We find out. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We find that, of course, [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Can I discuss it? Thank you. We note, of course, that a new practice was introduced at the time of the previous appointment on 3 December because, at the time of the appointment of the Deputy Ministers in April 2004 - Mr Member, I remember, because I sat there as a candidate - ministers or candidates for ministers were present in the Chamber! More than that, they even discussed, they asked a number of questions, and we discussed it for 12 hours. But I would like to answer two questions: Does this mean that none of the governments are here, that this government is not behind this candidate? Would it be possible to at least procedurally achieve that the candidate for minister would be here? Otherwise, I think we are going to appoint or appoint an important minister today. The Minister without a charter in charge of local self-government and regional policy, who will be the first Minister to be able, if he succeeds, to carry out what is enshrined in the elements of the coalition treaty itself on these issues, to regulate the areas of local self-government and regional policy. I hope that the Minister, who, along with many of us, will also make the necessary institutional, constitutional and other changes to ensure that local self-government and regional policy are given all the appropriate grounds. In doing so, I am surprised that the coalition has decided to give this minister an important part of the financial system, and this is a financial system relating to the financing of municipalities, as finance ministers everywhere are responsible for the entire financial system, for the whole public-financial system and also for the financing of local self-government when systemic issues are raised. Of course, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy may even propose new laws. I don't know. Perhaps he will propose a real estate law as an important law that will have an important impact on the volume of local government revenues. So, as I said, I would like to discuss, I would like to hear some answers to questions, because of course all Members and Members were unable to present their questions to either the candidate or the proposer on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, but I note that we are introducing a new practice in this National Assembly. It was first introduced, as you know, on December 3rd and today this practice continues. I would therefore suggest procedurally that when the candidate for a minister shows up to invite him to the Chamber, that he may answer a question for us, so that, of course, as stated in the order of this meeting of the State Assembly, we can also discuss this issue and then decide on this basis on the candidate. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Squeak. I'd like to answer two of your questions. First, why the applicant is not present. At the beginning of this point I announced, I read it. In doing so, I inform you that Prime Minister Janez Janša cannot attend this point because he is present at the European Council in Brussels. There is no need for the applicant to be present under the rules of procedure, and even after all the previous practices. If this were necessary or otherwise decided, it would be decided by the National Assembly. This is an agreement on your first dilemma on why the proposaler is not present. Second. It's a question of Mr. Candidate for Minister. Mr. candidate for Minister is in the Houses of the National Assembly. As was the last time, and as is the custom in this National Assembly - allow me to finish, please - and as is the protocol procedure, then the candidate for Minister will wait until the vote is completed. I would like to remind you that your dilemma that a candidate for a minister here would explain and answer is not possible, because he was on the committee responsible, he conducted a hearing, like all other candidates for a minister. I will therefore tell you that a candidate for a minister will come to the Chamber after a final vote if a vote occurs or if he is appointed. Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u173	A replica, because it's not Ali, I'd ask you if you could quote me in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that no candidate for a minister should sit here. [[...]] And if you can explain or tell me, then confirm what we know that this practice has been in force since 3 December 2004. 20, 21 April 2004, the last time five ministers were appointed, the candidates for ministers, at least as I recall, sat in the Chamber and answered questions. Therefore, I say that this is not a custom, but it is a new custom, and I do not have a problem with if this is a new custom, I just find that you are, of course, introducing new customs into this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u174	Mr. Mag. Once again, I received such notifications from the Secretary-General and from the Assistant Secretary-General after consultation as Chair. If this has been overlooked for the last time, please, it has been overlooked, today it has not been overlooked. However, please tell us where you received this information in the Rules of Procedure, so that we must do so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u175	Look, Mr. President, I'm asking you where the Rules of Procedure say it's forbidden! Allow me, Mr President, to say that this is a habit, I merely find that this practice has been nothing else since 3 December. Because on 20, 21 and April 2004, ministers, candidates for ministers, sat in this Chamber. That's my only question and that's why [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Jerovšek, therefore, in procedural terms, we could probably decide as a national assembly, Mr President, that we can decide that there is no candidate for a minister because there is no candidate in the national assembly. [[..]] As you know, with previous ministers, if you remember, we discussed, of course, their programmes or discussed them, and then even Mr. Prime Minister answered questions. But today you have a decision about the minister, there is no candidate, there is no candidate, there will be no answer to the question. Then why are we discussing whom and what should we discuss? Therefore, I propose procedurally if you put to the vote to invite the candidate, if he is here, to attend. And if he can answer anything, it would be good, but otherwise I think it would be good for him to listen to what we're about to say here, because otherwise we're talking in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u176	That is the only thing - I am sorry, Mr President - I would just like to clarify that the procedural rules adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly after consultation do not, in my opinion, define what you have proposed after consultation. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u177	Well, this is exactly what I wanted to say that we have, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, other acts for which it would be good for Mr Swickl to become aware, and the Rules of Procedure have been adopted, we have to stick to them, so you cannot put this proposal to the vote and I would ask that this pointless issue be concluded and that it continues with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u178	Procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u179	I would say in particular procedurally that the question of the work of the National Assembly is governed by rules, statutes, procedures and I do not know what. They are also governed by a political culture, regulated by certain traditions and customs that have evolved, and this custom has always been that the minister, a candidate for the minister, when he was loved, was present in the Chamber and could listen, also responded if he wanted to ask questions and criticisms. I think that if we abandon these aspects of political culture and tradition, then, of course, we can leave the written rules soon. And I think that these rules and unwritten agreements and customs should be adhered to, because they are also an integral part of the parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u180	As I note that, in consultation with the Secretary-General and the Assistant Secretary-General, I have found that further procedural discussions on this issue are not ongoing and I give the floor to the next Member who has applied to Mr Rupar, SDS. He's not here. Then it's next, this is Geza Juban, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Chairman. My debate on the appointment of a Minister for Local Self-Government and at the same time stated that I would support the candidate in this case. I don't know the candidate personally, but I've been following him indirectly in a variety of ways that have convinced me to support him. One of these was the last broadcast between the municipalities of Bistrica and Sežana, where we had the opportunity via radio to find out that we are dealing with a candidate who knows the area well, that he is acceptable in his environment, that he is highly educated, that he is communicating with people in an acceptable way and more. And about the same story was repeated on the local self-government committee, where my opposition colleagues found the same thing. This conclusion is probably to the satisfaction of all of us, especially the parties proposed by it and the governments, who later proposed that we get a candidate who is even better than the former candidate, according to their findings. The Minister, when and if he is elected, will not be able, even if it seems that this is an easier, less important one, as indicated in the proposals in the previous round, and he will face many challenges that may even contradict his beliefs, we can also find out here today when his candidates or his coalition colleagues continue to warn him, but you will also have to set up congregations with 300 people, although you are proving your success in 30,000 people that you will have to thoroughly reform the law on the financing of municipalities, the jurisdiction of municipalities, which is not an easy task, and it is no longer a pre-election story, now a story where a candidate will have a lot of work within the current government. Indeed, as I say, we have experienced this story once before with the former Minister of Local Self-Government, and Mr Grafenauer, who was in a similar situation, has faced similar problems, including the one I initially found against the establishment of municipalities with 300 inhabitants, he had to defend them. In short, a task that will be important but difficult and climate-based will also have the right support and, of course, my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The following was reported by Dr. Slavko Gaber, LDS. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janko Weber, United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When I read the opinion of the committee at which the presentation or appointment of the Minister-designate without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy was held, it would actually be difficult to add anything else to this material or to the content of the presentation. However, some points may have been under-emphasized and I would also like to highlight them in my debate. At the same time, I would like to point out that too well-prepared presentation on paper can be just as dangerous, as it can lead to a lot more dissatisfaction in local self-government if more than really possible is offered. Therefore, I would also expect that the presentation would be more a reflection of the real situation and of the real possibilities in the coming years of the development of regionalism and local self-government. Well, in this extensive presentation, I can say that I somehow lack the basic spatial act of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia, which has drawn spatial development through the adoption of the National Assembly, and this spatial development depends very much on the development of municipalities and local self-government, and not least on individual areas or regions. It is a matter of defining both national and regional centres as well as connections within this space, and it is likely that this strategic document in the area of local self-government and regionalism should also be taken into account. In addition, I think that the area along the southern border has not been given enough attention in this presentation. This is not the last extremely sensitive area. For the first time, because of the Schengen border, the possibility of development is limited because the limit is one which has some additional restrictions. Secondly, because the situation is truly at this southern border in some areas is extremely critical. Above all, I would highlight the area in the upper part of the river Kolpa, the area of Kostela, Osilnice, the Poljanje Valley near Kolpa, in the municipality of Kočev and Montenegro, which encounters an extremely poor demographic picture and extremely small interest in the development of the economy in the area. Therefore, in particular, the southern border should also be treated more thoroughly in this case by the candidate for a minister and appropriate solutions should be found to change the course of events in these areas. Above all, solutions need to be sought, in particular to seek solutions and incentives for the development of the economic sectors and, of course, to allow for the further movement of the border, which is one of the key parts of each country, so the border is extremely important for the otherwise peaceful and stable development within the country. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, lastly, a small-border agreement has been concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, which allows these problems to be resolved bilaterally, both on the Slovenian side and on the Croatian side, and, of course, this should also be an integral part of this ministry. However, I would like to add an opinion on the legislation of the development regions. The Coalition Treaty states that they should therefore have development regions. Of course, the presentation is much broader. I myself have serious concerns about whether it makes sense to legislate the development regions, because development cannot be linked to the border, but mainly to the interests of an area and, above all, to the needs of addressing the excessive deviation in development between individual regions. And if we legalise regions that have, say, a large regional centre, and we try, of course, to think in this direction that this will be a future province, then there will be no coherent regional development, but there will be some existing situation that will not lead to a reduction of differences between regions. Therefore, it seems more appropriate for us to consider that the government is preparing a law that does not enact development regions, but would leave it to a government decision that can determine that in some areas, it is simply not possible to resolve everything through local self-government or through individual ministries and that it is necessary to make more concrete, clearer decisions that can, of course, be reflected or registered in a regulation or in a law that is normally necessary in such cases in order to overcome other legal restrictions that prevent faster action. The government would thus have a more open door to solving the most acute problems, especially reducing differences between regions. And I think that this would reduce the interest either in establishing new municipalities or not least in crushing Slovenia to too many future provinces. And, of course, I would expect the Minister to try to study, as far as he can be called, of course, this possibility of solving this problem. With regard to the financing of municipalities, it would only briefly highlight the fact that, however, concessions in the area of forests, i.e. concessions in state forests, are the only concessions that local communities do not feel in the way that they have a share of this concession fee, for all other concession fees in the field of natural goods, so as to expect the Minister to examine this area and to try, in part, to mitigate the problem of community financing and, lastly, the maintenance of state forest roads involved in the appropriate use of municipalities is one of the solutions that are not appropriate and can be addressed by relatively simple measures without prejudice to the community funding system, which is likely to be extremely tough and likely to be ineffective in some major changes in this mandate. However, these small steps are, of course, intended to remove some problem and improve the situation of local communities. In organising local self-government itself, only the sense of having two ways of electing local communities in Slovenia would be touched briefly, so we like the mayors directly and, of course, in municipal councils, the usual lists are elected. And if we look at the powers and tasks, in both the Slovenian space comes to extremely large conflicts, and this is what is somehow also hampering the development of an area even faster. Therefore, it would be good to study in the future whether we have a mayor elected from the ranks of municipal councilors and then, of course, a coalition that elects the mayor can be created, placed on this function, and then there are no problems such as we face today in too many municipalities in Slovenia. The second is, of course, to try to maintain this system of elections, but to give mayors the opportunity to have an impact on the formation of a team, both in the municipal world and, of course, also in the management of working bodies in a way that is coordinated and supported by the development guidelines of the individual municipality in the most efficient way, of course requiring effective control of the work of the municipality on the other hand. These are some of the concerns that I have not seen in this presentation, and I hope that good guidance will be given to the government and the Minister of Labour if they really want to do something in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mikolić, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I am sure that we are making an important decision today for this important field function, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister has proposed a candidate who for decades or ten years has performed this important function both at home and outside Slovenia. However, I must point out that, as we have seen in some way, work will not be easy, given that local communities expect much or expect from this source, and given that this area has not been specifically covered in the past period. And somehow, I'm sure our expectations will be realized. I must point out that today we are talking a lot about the next fragmentation of the congregations or the establishment of new congregations, but I would point out that this is certainly very much linked to the law on the financing of the municipalities, because today this is a fact - we can see that, in fact, there are no conditions for a new congregation to be established in the undeveloped area; for even for those municipalities that are from an underdeveloped area, the existing law on the financing of municipalities today does not guarantee that it will carry out all the functions that the local government imposes. Therefore, we expect that this very area, as the primary task, will also take something to be done on the segment of the relevant law on the financing of municipalities. Of course, this is also closely linked to the law on coherent regional development and what, in fact, the previous government has somehow not concluded that this area will also be resolved as soon as possible from the so-called legal point of view as well as from the point of view of specific coherent regional development in the future. Once again, I would like to point out that the candidate for Minister after the professional level is certainly very appropriate, as has been said before, and I will support the candidate myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u186	Mr. Ljubo Germich, LDS. [[He's not in the hall.]] Mr. Michael Prevc SLS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A reputable candidate for Minister! I do not want to spend much time and much time talking about problems and the problem of the municipalities, because I think a lot of this has already been said today and even yesterday on the local self-government committee, where the candidate was also questioned. However, I have to say to what was said before me, but in two sentences, I do not really agree with the idea that some small congregations are almost impossible to say. The fact is, small congregations have gained enormously. This was also highlighted somewhere, otherwise only on the regulation of municipal infrastructure. As for operationally, however, these small congregations are, of course, quite incompetent. That's not true. However, the law allows these small congregations to be able to work together in connection with these common services and then to resolve these matters more easily. You know, this is the least of the problems of municipalities, a much larger problem of municipalities is the fact that the state has imposed on us in the past that these municipalities have been subject to new and new obligations, which, of course, were not financially supported. That's the problem. And I will say, especially in this sense, at the hearing yesterday, we received very satisfactory answers, in fact, we were very pleased. I am also a member of this committee, and I am sure that the government with the candidate for Minister, Mr Žagar, is receiving a very important and strong article. The fact is that the first step in improving the conditions for the functioning of municipalities has already been made by the establishment of this Ministry of Local Administration and Regional Development for greater public interest in local self-government. The second step will be taken today when we place a very competent, professionally strong minister in this place. Yesterday, at the hearing, we heard a man from practice, in fact in the ten-year mayorate, and we were able to make sure that the issue of local self-government, not just local self-government, including regionalism, was well known. The questions raised by the members of this committee were also answered with great confidence, and the result was that he was also strongly supported. I am very pleased that, according to him, one of the main objectives of this ministry, which he has repeatedly stressed, is the decentralisation of the country in the first place. That seems very important to me. This is said to be the decentralisation of the country, which at the same time also means the regulation of the status of municipalities, in particular in terms of increasing their autonomy in the decision-making process itself and in particular an increase in financial autonomy. That's one. Then another, which he specifically stressed, was the introduction of landscapes. The introduction of the provinces - unfortunately, we have not yet reached this stage. However, the candidate for a minister has made it clear in this mandate, mainly due to the competence of the European Community, in this area this wagon needs to be moved, as the introduction of the provinces is certainly considered by the candidate for a minister to be the next level of decentralisation of the state. And perhaps thirdly, reducing regional differences and ensuring comprehensive progress and development. I am sure that these are the right directions, and I am sure that the candidate for Minister, Dr Ivan Žagar, will also be able to execute them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potrč, United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I have participated in the work of the previous National Assembly, as well as in the College now in preparation for this meeting, and I would just like to say this, I have no memory of deciding how the meeting will take place in the light of the presence of the candidates or not. And I personally think that it would be polite for the candidate and also for the candidate to be able to assure a presence, but I am not asking in a formal sense, but it is also a pity that we are answering in a formal or formal way, especially because in this case it goes - in my opinion, as I have followed yesterday's debate - for a candidate who would have had relatively great praise and not be teased or asked inappropriate questions in this debate. Otherwise, just two things in a short time, I have followed the presentation and agree with all my colleagues and you who have said that it is a candidate, who certainly - according to his experience and successful work in the county - knows the issue that he wants to strengthen the legal and actual position of local government in Slovenia, and we support him, but in his speech, he also has certain questions, which I would like to point out to two, three. The first is the fact that the establishment of the provinces, one of the priorities so far in the functioning of the United List of Social Democrats, has been clearly defined by the candidate gentleman, but otherwise as defined by the Committee on Internal Policy by the candidate and now by the Minister of Administration and as defined in the Coalition Treaty. In view of what you have explained to us the last time, especially the Prime Minister, without obvious evidence, I only find that the government will act in a uniform manner, in accordance with the common objectives, then I ask which of its conflicting objectives will be subject in this case: whether the definition for the provinces, or the definition for the development regions, and perhaps sometime in a later period, which will not, in this mandate, be said very clearly, by Mr Virant, also by the province. That's one question. Second. Regarding the definition of landscapes, he said that this did not require a change of constitution. I am only warning that we have not been politically inventive so far, but from legal experts we have been given the answers that without changing the Constitution, the definition of the provinces, which would have been defined in Slovenia at the same time as the second stage of local self-government, which would have been transferred from the country, but not some agreement between municipalities that such provinces could not be formed without a change in the constitution. That was the explanation so far. But if anyone thinks that the provinces will continue to be formed as contractual communities or as consensual communities among the congregations, then it is something else, but it is also something else that we imagine the landscapes. And a third. It is certainly important that we advocate changes in the community funding system, because the municipalities, according to the tasks, including those they have been given with the new decisions, are financially malnourished, to say the least. Everything! From the smallest to the biggest. Everything. And two important things are this: that we are aware again of the warning given by this government and its President, that all things are limited to financial possibilities and that because there is to be an increase in the funds of the municipalities for immeasurable resources, these insurmountable funds are undoubtedly, we all know, they go into a few ten billion tolars, otherwise it's a billion, two in the needs of the community to talk, it's pointless, it's such a small thing that the damage is then to set this as one of the important objectives. This is a lot of money, given all the obligations we have and the urgency of adapting all the new commitments that are promised, including the criteria that we need to meet to take over the euro. And the last. As far as funding is concerned. We have heard that funding could also be changed in such a way that the only few municipalities in Slovenia, which under the existing criteria - right or wrong - can provide funding on their own, can make funding more difficult and give more to those who also need to be significantly complemented by the right or wrong criteria. This would be a further step in the wrong direction and in the area of financing we have taken many of these steps, so that only the definition of increasing funds is not sufficient if we do not have on this basis clear criteria that link the financial capacity of municipalities to their rights and obligations which link initiatives and incentives that municipalities can give to their development options and which ultimately link the powers given to them by the State with the necessary provision of resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, LDS. No, you're giving up. Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija - neither. Miran Jerič, LDS - not either. Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u191	I'm not going to make a point, because there's simply no candidate or Prime Minister to ask. That way, I don't know what the debate is about. It's a matter of culture, or you come here, you introduce yourself, you say. Finally, the electorate and the electorate elected us to represent everyone's interests, to ask questions. As far as I was following the debate on the committee, I saw that the candidate was not bad, but, of course, if he was not even here, that I might ask him to make further arguments, I would hardly give him my support. I am sorry that this is so, and I think it is also unfair for him to have the opportunity to answer, and you all know very well that on 20 April, five candidates were prepared to sit here for 12 hours without any problems and were happy to answer your questions and respect for the State Assembly and the electorates and voters who elected those Members to this State Assembly. And I think it would be nice to have that practice preserved somehow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join my predecessor's opinion, because this has actually been the case, and this is a candidate who is having a hard time reading anything significant in this sense that we cannot agree with him and especially with his views. It would not be possible to ask him any more in this sense whether he is more aware of the documents which are also binding on Slovenia and which have been adopted by the Council of Europe, specifically the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, and which relate to the creation of a second level of local self-government and, of course, a Council of Europe report on the state of local self-government in Slovenia. In this respect, the Council of Europe has also adopted specific recommendations in which Slovenia has imposed certain measures in the field of local self-government. I therefore do not know at this point whether Mr candidate is aware of these recommendations at all and what position he would take in this regard. For example, Slovenia has so far supported the decision of the Council of Europe to adopt the Convention on Regionalism, in particular by the Minister of the Interior. As a matter of convention, this would mean a binding legal act which Slovenia should also ratify. Now I don't know what the candidate's position is in this regard, and of course I could also answer another question, which is important and important. As has been said, it is, after all, a matter of culture, especially political culture, and of some tradition that has proved to be good in this national assembly, to have an opportunity, if not otherwise, so, if we did not have a chance to hear it, that is to say, Mr candidate, we would at least have an opportunity to see it. Last but not least, those viewers who are watching this session on television could also create their own opinion on the candidate and then they could also agree with us or disagree with us on how they would vote on this candidacy; but of course, in an empty way, if not the other, it is sad and I will end up at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, SLS, has the floor. He's not here. He's quitting. Mr. Rudolf Moge, LDS. He's not in the hall either. Dr. Mark Pavliha, he's giving up. Mr. Milan Friday, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u195	Nice greeting, chairman. Colleagues, colleagues. I am also associating myself with those who believe that it would be cultural and hygienic to this assembly, that the Minister may sit opposite us to hear some good directions from me, and that he may answer those questions that were not possible to either ask or hear answers. I myself believe that the presentation of the candidate was significantly different from the one I experienced in the previous candidate, and I admit that Mr Žagar has satisfied me with his presentation and answers to my questions. Even now, I wonder what led the SLS as a coalition partner to make such a mistake with the first candidate, rather than having the current candidate participate in the preparation of the coalition agreement and the "hearing" at the time. I believe that the existing or current content of the coalition treaty, which defines this area, would be significantly more concrete, time-bound and aligned with other policies contained in the coalition treaty; in short, I think it would be better this way. I have to say, in some cases, I don't attach myself to the candidate. In his opinion, he highlighted the inadequate role of regional development agencies, which he considered that they should not prevail over the political decisions of the municipalities in the preparation of projects and programmes, forgetting that the criteria for candidateing and obtaining funds were different, professional, economic, but not primarily political. Let me therefore quote his reply in this regard: "It cannot happen that in fact regional development agencies are in some way over municipalities, and even in this case it has happened many times, at least our experiences are such that regional development agencies are prepared to put programmes ahead of the community's reality and also to draw funds. The municipalities or associations of the municipalities themselves are most aware of the pressing problems they face and, of course, they need to give priority to those problems themselves." That is, therefore, the text of the reply given by the applicant at the hearing. And I think he's wrong. According to his logic, which I hope is lapsus, he has forgotten that these funds are primarily intended for the economic development of local communities and also the municipalities, and so the local interest is the same as economic development, not only the interest in the construction of sewerages, roads, electricity and so on. So I think it's a lapsus, and I hope so. I am satisfied with the candidate's clear claim or the assurance that he will support the establishment of only those municipalities that fully meet the legal requirements. That's what it was like to hear it, and I believe it, and I hope it, but we'll keep it that way. I cannot agree with his opinion on the compatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. If I still understand in part that this would be possible for smaller congregations, I feel that this is unacceptable for larger, especially the city’s congregations. So, if I attach him to the candidate on one hand and I think he is a good candidate, I regret to pardon him at the same time, because, given the content of the coalition contract, which very strongly defines his field, he does not have any deadlines. In particular, I feel sorry for him when I think about the views of his colleagues, who will not give him the opportunity to realize his ideas and ideas presented at the hearing, because their views are in much conflict with his. Mr. Kontic described him at the hearing with words [[Quote]] : "I could assess you as an angel of the guardian of local communities and local self-government." Personally, I believe that because of the foregoing, he will sooner or later be an angel with his wings slit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc, the SLS is gone. Mr. Aloise Posedel, LDS, he's not here either. Mr. Franz Kangler, SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In a way, I am very pleased that today we have a candidate who has been "hearing" in some way with his performance, with his knowledge, with his expertise satisfied most of the members of my group and from my previous debate I can find that Mr. Žagar masters good local self-government, that Mr. Žagar is aware of regional developments, that he knows and is aware of what more coherent regional development means in Slovenia, and it is particularly important that he understands the thorough and substantive distinctions both on one side of the country and on the other side of the local community. We must not ignore the fact that we received the Local Self-Government Act in 1993, that the local self-government had taken effect in 1994 and that from the first moment on, Mr Žagar was mayor of Slovenia Bistrica. With his work and activity as mayor, as an expert and ultimately as a politician, he also gained experience, knowledge and direct contact with the environment needed to bring the problems and problems of a simple or everyday person to government departments so that the government can develop more effectively and thoroughly local self-government and ensure more coherent regional development. If you want to implement projects of more coherent regional development in a good, efficient and thorough manner, you must also have the skills and expertise to do so. And certainly one of such experts and staff is Dr. Žagar, the current mayor of Slovenska Bistrica. I am sure that a good minister, a good expert and ultimately a good politician in this government will be. My colleague Rupar, as far as Styria is concerned, I will also touch this weak article later, if you will allow me. However, I would like to take a look at the debate of some of my fellow Members, in particular I listened to the representative of the Slovenian National Party in a thorough and visual way when she spoke about the Euroregions. Yes, indeed, the Slovenian People's Party advocates Slovenia as one euro area. We do not agree to the division of the euro area in order to divide Slovenia in such a way that part of Slovenia has its seat in Trieste and part in Graz, as far as the euro area is concerned. One is the euro area and the other is the internal regions, for which we will have to agree in the future or in this mandate, in what way and with what concept we will solve these problems. It's so hard work for us. I am sure that the representative of the Slovenian National Party did not understand or was not aware that Mr Žagar, as Minister, will probably no longer serve as mayor and that there will be a replacement election in Slovenia Bistrica, because this function, the Minister and the Mayor, is not compatible. That's why I'm just fixing a colleague from the Slovenian National Party. The criticism of some LDS representatives, particularly the distinguished colleague of Lahovnik, that on 20 April all the government's representatives were candidates for ministers in this place, I am convinced that with great pleasure, if practice and practice were available, Dr. Žagar sat here today and, as it is a thorough and effective and substantive answer to some of the questions of his fellow Members at the "hearing" session, he would answer some of the questions of individual Members who would like to ask him questions today in this Chamber. However, I am convinced that those who had serious intentions to ask Mr Žagar such a question or a different question could also do so on the "hearing" itself or through their fellow Members of Parliament and ask him a question. There'll be more opportunities. As Minister, he will also have the opportunity to respond to parliamentary questions. It is true, however, that customs and rules of procedure are changing. I'd like to tell my colleague Lakhovnik the following. On April 20th, everyone in this place sat as a politician, as experts, as non-party colleagues, but look at him, everyone stepped into the strongest party overnight, which is, of course, their personal decision. After all, if we look at these experts today who were not politicians or who were then apolitical, some have even made such progress that they have even been elected Vice-President or Vice-President. This is likely to be a matter of debate in the future, as far as someone is principled and correct and could also mention. Therefore, such criticisms are not appropriate in this place. It is important that one first sweeps before one’s threshold and then before another. Let me finish what my colleague Rupar reminded me of or mentioned from the bench - as far as Styria is concerned. That's right. A fellow Jagar comes from Styria. He's an expert, but I'd like to emphasise the following. The north-eastern part of Slovenia is part of the political space belonging to this country. And I am sure that this part of Slovenia also needs to be given equal and consistent consideration in the field of human resources. With regard to my protest, I would like to stress the following: I do not agree with the philosophy of certain politicians in this country, especially those in the previous term of office, as well as some of my fellow Members or former fellow Members of Parliament who have claimed and claim that there are no experts in the University of Maribor, in the northeastern part of Slovenia, there are no politicians or so important, professionally qualified personnel, persons capable of taking over certain departments. Surely Dr. Žagar is such a cadre, he is able and the support he received at the "hearing" which he will receive today in the National Assembly shows that we have people who are capable of working in this government. And in this place, I also tell all those who, in any way, think or any way have sent such or other information through the seventh force, Franz Kangler will not be the weakest member in this government. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]] Replica, why?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd replicate Mr. Kangler because I've been mentioned many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Well, I must say that the area of regionalisation, or in particular, the division of Slovenia into one, two or three regions, has been monitored for quite some time during the past mandate, so as to speak of who has the concept or who has no idea of the euro area, I think it is completely pointless and unjustifiable to go to such a low level. It is true, however, that one region, one euro area, means exactly what I have warned about in the opening presentation. This means that Slovenia gets alongside and part of Austria and part of Italy and so on. The Slovenian national party advocates the position that Slovenia is organised within three regions, which in fact allows it to obtain funds from the European Union. Well, there's one more thing. The legislative and executive branch of the authorities - in the Slovenian National Party we stand firm for them to be separated. This is also a constitutional provision, which means that the function of the mayor coming from the executive branch of power cannot be, or must not be, compatible with, the function of a Member coming from the legislative branch of authority. After all, the one who writes the laws cannot be the one who enforces the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I would warn you that this was actually a debate and not a replica, so there will be no replica to the replica. Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the statements made by Members who wish to discuss the matter further, I would like to tell you the following as President at this point. In conducting the meeting at this point, I adhere to the rules adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly on 21 February 2003. These are the protocol rules of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the text we discussed today, whether it is right or wrong, they say [[page 45]] : "You are running for government members the protocol of the National Assembly waits on the arrival of Parliament and invites them to a small salon where they wait for election. After publishing the results, the elections, the protocol of the National Assembly invites them to the hall where a signed map of the pen is placed in the circle and so on. The same was done at the last election of members of the government. I did the same thing today. So much for your knowledge. What had happened before and how it had been guided would not have been discussed. We continue the debate. There's been a report of a mag. Anton Rob, who isn't in the hall. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues. I am glad that we have a good candidate in our hands today, and I would particularly like to refer to what my colleague Kangler said before me. Likewise, this topic of equal representation of Slovenia has its place and I like it, and it is right that the candidate also comes from the right end and also from the people's party can be congratulated this time for a good choice. I have followed the candidate's presentation in detail, read the hearing, and I must say that the candidate coming from local self-government knows her well, has repeatedly been stressed that the municipalities are the foundation of local self-government. I think that's the same thing. Unfortunately, some areas of this hearing have fallen out, and only in these areas would I like to remind him, not critically, but well-intentionedly. For what, it's about. The text, for example, where relations within municipalities are regulated, in many Slovene municipalities raises a lot of dust between mayors and the municipal councils, especially in those where there is no solid coalition or where the mayors and most in the municipal world are on the opposite coast. Many of these complications in decision - making in the municipal world could also be avoided if the congregations had updated rules of procedure, regulations and statutes, and if, of course, they were to take into account what is essentially our duty to adhere to the will of the electorate. This is said to be the case with the authorities that the congregation must have, both the law and the statutes, in order to take account of the proportional composition between the parties and so on. I am passing through from the congregation, for example, where we do not have a single representative of a third of the members of the Supervisory Council. I think it's a farce and a mockery of democracy, and it's also an area that concerns the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and then I think it's also an important issue for local communities. Mr candidate was open to local communities, but I doubt from the debate that those of his colleagues in the coalition will allow him to exercise local self-government in local communities as well and that he does not unnecessarily take up legal status. These are the little warnings that heat our lives on a local level, and I also hope that the candidate will take into account his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc, SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u205	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have known Mr Ivan Žagar for several years and I think he is, as a candidate for a minister without a licence for local development, regional development, I think he is more than an excellent choice. This is proved today by the debaters in the National Assembly as well as by the result on the parent body yesterday. Since he has demonstrated full knowledge and has been a very successful mayor of a large municipality since 1994, he proves that he has been plowing the ice of local self-government, and if anyone knows this matter, surely the candidate for a minister knows this very well. I can say that from my own experience, which I had quite a few with him. Being mayor in one large municipality is certainly one great recognition of a man's good work, for his acceptability, for his tolerance, for one thing, which, somehow in three mandates, as a candidate certainly deserves the full confidence of the national assembly, and apparently also of the opposition today, which further encourages me, although unfortunately not all present that we have chosen a great candidate, which will be as important an area as local self-government and regional development in this Slovenia. In this story, we've been talking about this a lot. We are talking a lot about decentralisation, how Slovenia is a centralised country, how very little or nothing has been done in previous mandates in this area, and how this is one very important area, not just for this ministry, but for the whole government. From words to action, it will be a very difficult area, one way or another. I think that this area will be somehow expected by the Slovenian municipalities to move largely, but I believe that, even in close connection with the government, with the Ministry of Finance and other resources, it has not been able to prove what the previous government has failed to do. The financing of municipalities is certainly a major problem, which is a matter of the whole government, not just that ministry. I believe that Mr Žagar, who has presented this very precisely and professionally on his home body, proves that he has done so properly. I like, once again, the fact that even those who may not support it in today's vote will even change their minds by the end of the debate and still support it as a person who will cover this hole, this big hole that has been on the side track for 12 years. I believe that these regional differences, which are extremely large in Slovenia, and that this unbalanced development of Slovenia will give this new Slovenian government and the new minister, whom we will now appoint to do what our citizens decided not least on 3 October in the elections for the future government. He's got a lot of work to do, hard work, responsible work to do. I wish him a lot of success in this work to choose a team that will be professional and that would meet all the challenges and tasks that Slovenian municipalities bring to this ministry, if without a charter, this term is not my favorite, but it is, and I hope that it will also be in the future several papers in this department. However, I would like to tell my colleague Barbara about the integration of the function of Member and Mayor. All right, everyone can have their own opinions, but on their own case, they should take care of this first, and then go elsewhere to other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, LDS. No, no, no. Mrs. Majda Shirca, LDS. Not at all. I don't see Mr. Joseph Scholcz in the hall either. Mr. Matjaž Švagan. Not at all. Mr. Davorin Terchon, LDS. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I would say that we are trying some established method on the issue of regionalisation of local self-government when we put up a minister who is supposed to take care of it without any serious institutionalisation. If we look at the coalition treaty, we have only a declaration of readiness to reduce regional differences and we have some utopian euro area, which is a question of how serious it is at all and how feasible it is at some point in time. We have no serious intention of amending the Constitution, and if I were to judge after the previous term and past mandates, I would say that there is no such serious willingness in the current government coalition. The creation of the Minister for Regionalisation and the local self-government of this problem cannot simply solve and, notwithstanding the already expressed recognition of the candidate's professional competence, I doubt that, under such assumptions, on such grounds as are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, without any serious intention of changing the constitution and institutionalisation of regions in Slovenia, so that we can come to a serious reduction of differences in regional development. Much has already been said about the change in the way municipalities are financed in this Chamber in previous mandates. However, it is important to say, irrespective of the coalition agreement and the willingness to devote a more extensive part of public funds to the financing of local communities, that this is not possible without serious redistribution within the state budget. This is not possible, without prejudice to other programmes, to other beneficiaries of the State budget and to certain acquired rights and a stable way of financing other areas financed by the State budget. I can certainly conclude that I wish a great deal and a lot of success to the new minister and that we will, of course, be careful to monitor how these regional differences are shrinking if, of course, they decrease, how the situation of the municipalities changes if, unless, of course, there is an increase in the number of municipalities, I am afraid that every small village in Slovenia can already be eligible for the municipality if we weigh, of course, only between the will of the people and what is written in the law, because this is not always going together. The past has also shown us that, therefore, we have repeatedly violated the legal provisions on the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, simply walked and certainly, as I have said, I want a lot of success for the candidate, and in some time we will be able to actually assess only success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Trophynik, LDS. I don't see him in the hall. Mr. Jakob President, SLS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that you have explained the reasons why there is no candidate for Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today. However, as the issue of political culture has been mentioned several times, I am afraid that this political culture will come to the public as if it were an issue of its political culture, so I would like to make it clear, of course, that it is either a political culture or a political flaw or a lack of protocol rules of the national assembly. Of course, these protocol rules as you read them apply, and the fact that they have been broken once again does not justify violating them today. However, I will be among those who will support the college when this is dealt with, but we will only change such rules of conduct in the National Assembly. I personally believe that it would be significantly better, even for the candidate to be present. However, I have already explained my views on the candidate as the opinion of the parliamentary group, which is why I support the candidate. My colleagues have already explained in more detail the reasons why we will support the candidate for Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u210	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to draw your attention to one fact that I am thinking about today during this debate. Most of the members and members of the Local Self-Government Committee are mayors and mayors. Yesterday, when our colleague was representing himself on this committee, I think there was an idea. In fact, most of us fully agreed with his views, his proposals with his views on local self-government and regionalism. However, I think that the picture will change greatly when Dr. Žagar, as Minister, brings the proposals of marriage to this place, where the right expression is already seen, in fact, that many of the problems that are open in this area are not as uniform as they may be today. If I mention just a few of these, because I am the last of the debaters, the issue of the compatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions already exists. I think we also talked a lot yesterday, somehow forcing the candidate into saying that he would fully respect the legal dictatorship in the formation of the new congregations. When this darkness opens next year, it is likely that many things will happen. Each one will have his own petty desire, where another congregation may be formed by a member or a member in his own image. There's probably no other way around the provinces, and so on. These ideas on this unity, I think, are more or less important than sitting on this committee, I think in these matters, in terms of practice and experience, equally thinking people with this experience from local self-government. But if you'll allow me to deal with this problem. I am pleased that Mr President of the Slovenian People's Party's Club also said that this should be changed. I myself have gained this position regarding the protocol, although I must say that there is no record of anything prohibited. So far, this practice has been, and I think that this was so much more, regardless of whether it was written in the protocol, because colleagues and colleagues, the point is that we are talking and discussing the candidate. This candidate has to sit there in a small salon by protocol, while the protocol then writes everything from, a little bit, what kind of ink must be in the rainy pen and what vases and flowers outside. I mean to say, and I agree with you, I am sure that Dr. Žagar would be happy to sit here and answer this question today, because most of us on this committee, I do not think that the majority of us are Members and Members of Parliament have had the opportunity to ask him anything until today. Today, however, this debate is obviously intended for us and the discussion here. Dear colleagues from the post, I ask you not to forget in three weeks all the things that you, as the opposition, sometimes have seen. Looks like you've only needed three weeks to get into this, I'll say, a little stricter posture, while we seem to have taken 12 years to make this happen to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u213	Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There has been a conscious attempt, in a perfidious way, to undermine the dignity of this National Assembly by giving false indications of the application of protocol rules by one of the Members. Indeed, these protocol rules have been adopted, as you yourself stated, 21.2.2003. I believe it is the credit of the President of the National Assembly to use them consistently as long as they are in force. It is true that they were violated at the confirmation of the previous Government and that these protocol rules were adopted during the previous Presidency of the National Assembly. That is why, Mr Vice-President, I think it is your duty, in the course of this deception of the Slovenian public, that the current President of the National Assembly wanted to violate some rules - it is a grave deception of the Slovenian public. I think you have a duty to publicly reprimand a Member who has dared in such a perfidious way to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I think that, as President, I have made myself perfectly clear in two points and will not repeat them again. I have adhered to the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which have been adopted. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: For a Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar is hereby appointed. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Tomaž Štebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u215	I will support the candidate for Minister of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. I believe and believe it's a very good choice. The local authorities and regions, whatever we already have, will therefore be given a combined two basic state mechanisms for the functioning of local self-government. I believe that the candidate for a minister will be able to exercise real interests in solving problems and in developing with coordination with other ministries, which make every important contribution to the success of local governments. Of course, it is ultimately for the satisfaction of citizens, citizens and economies in the public and private sphere. However, the real challenge for Dr. Žagar will be, in my opinion, the resolution and enforcement of real development incentives and the integration of systems in the spatial, infrastructure and economic fields. And above all, that through the whole government it will in some way enforce how to motivate municipalities to connect in the realization of, I say, contractual projects - so that money for projects is yes, if everyone in the area of a system is connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I had previously forgotten, or should I ask, does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Peca and Mr Rezman also took the floor. Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. The explanation for the vote, however, is that there is something going on between the candidate's programme for minister and between the Slovenian National Party's programme, according to some estimates, even significant differences, such as the relation to the number of local communities in Slovenia in the future and, above all, the relationship, i.e. the ability to perform two or more functions at once, i.e. to be mayor, to be a member, to be a minister. Nevertheless, my personal conviction is that the candidate for Minister, Mr Žagar, has done his job well at the hearing, and especially because it comes from another part of Slovenia, that is, from Styria, which I think is neglected, I also have to thank my colleague Kangler, for whom I consider that the good part of the task or difficulty of appointing this Minister has come, that I will also confirm that, despite the position of the Slovenian National Party, I will also confirm my colleague or Mr Žagar as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u219	I would like to, although the order has now changed, I am happy to say a few words on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, and also on my behalf in particular. However, I am pleased to say that I am convinced that we are voting in favour of a very good candidate. There are many reasons for this, some have been listed, we can repeat some of them, certainly a man with experience, certainly a man with a sufficiently large intellectual horizon, certainly his virtue is also in that the one we know, even as mayors, is prepared for a dialogueal solution to problems not only to decide out-out, or-or, but is also trying to find what can satisfy those who at first were not possibly the same, at a new stage of an agreement. The government, parliament and others can probably look forward to it because it will contribute much to a better and better work. Those who try to find any weakness in every way, but in fact, according to my judgment, do not do the best thing, because I think it's a little arrogant if we want to find something bad with a bunch of good things in every way. With each one of us, there is also some weakness, for we are not half and whole gods. Dr. Zhagar doesn't. What may be disappointing for us is the fact that we experienced yesterday on the parental committee, where everyone supported it, everyone expressed satisfaction with his performance, including the opposition Members, and then did not choose the strength to actively support him. Maybe they'll fix it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. When I vote, I will do as I did when I vote in favour of the entire government. Given the fact that the candidate for the Minister for Regional Development has resigned, we now have the opportunity to speak about the individual, otherwise we would have spoken of the government as a whole. And if I vote otherwise now, I give a valuable judgment, which is not justified in any way, because I did not listen to all the presentations, all the other candidates or other candidates for ministers now confirmed by the Slovenian governments, and I would say, in fact, that one is better than the other. Also, the fact that it comes from that part of Slovenia, which is always said to be under-appreciated by rich staff offers, would say that ministers have already come to the government from this end and that they were doing their work just as the government had probably directed. However, listening to all that I have had to hear in the debate today raises another question or strengthens the answer to this question that the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions is necessary, but I do not believe that this position will be put to the vote in this assembly because the mayor's lobby is also extremely strong in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. Good. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I'll support Dr. Frog for the Minister. Also because I appreciate that on the local self-government committee, he has literally disarmed all those who even wanted to be a little cynical, say smarter than the smart ones, and yet have come to realize that there is no argument, except of course the demagogue, to gather so much courage and be against him. But they didn't gather the same courage to vote in favour. To do so, of course, it is necessary to be strictly but strictly party-specific. You can only do it provided that there is me and no one else, if there is anyone else, has to be destroyed and no other matter, except ideological stubborn and absurd belief, changes and does not excuse this fact. I am very happy and congratulate Janša and the Government and the People's Party, Janša and the Government and the People's Party, as well as this National Assembly, that after so many years we have succeeded in completely ignoring the former government to set up a local self-government committee and a ministry for this. Not because of the future that lies ahead of local self-government in regional development, but because it can be a real problem and because people are the ones who live in these matts, which are called local self-government, which the former authorities have absolutely wanted to crush and have been very on a great march and very on the threshold of achieving this goal. Congratulations and thank you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Now, for the last time, who wants a vote? One, two. Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u225	Thank you, Vice President. I will vote against this because I have always advocated the territorial organisation of our local self-government in such a way that, of course, the consumption from this title would be as low as possible. Anyone who advocates further fragmentation of the congregations and who puts it as a criterion of self - will of the inhabitants is contrary to what I have always advocated. I submit that in the last term, one of the best results of local self-government was that the government stopped the fragmentation of municipalities and established only one new one that met all the criteria, all the conditions in the previous mandate. That is why, despite the excellent presentation, I have followed through the media, and the references that are attributed to my vote will not be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'll just support the candidate. I think that this decision by the government or the mandate holder to re-establish a Minister without a charter for this area and to link local self-government and regional development to one key decision at the last minute. I was once known as a fighter for the rights of the municipalities, and I think that things are already very, very late, and I hope that all of you who are now on the new committee for local self-government and regional development will also help to find solutions that I think will be very difficult to find, but I do not think that the mayoral lobby in this Parliament in the past has contributed anything to the better position of the municipalities and that, in fact, this compatibility or incompatibility for the municipalities has meant nothing in the past. Of course, there is another decision here and I think that this new situation at the last moment is an opportunity for Slovenia to actually develop democratically normally. It also seems to me that the candidate from the Styrian region, I think that the issue of local self-government is the most dramatic reflection there, and in this way he will be able to assess what moves are most realistically proposed. But I also hope that we will have enough wisdom to know, as I have already said, that we will solve things quite late in this mandate. Of course I'll support myself, as I said, the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debate and are moving on to a decision-making or vote. We vote: The Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy is Dr. Ivan Žagar. We're voting. I note that at the time of the vote 73 Members and Members were present, 50 votes in favour against 11 Members. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that Dr Ivan Žagar has been appointed Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy. I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on his appointment and wish him to perform his duties successfully. I ask the newly appointed Minister, Dr Ivan Žagar, to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u229	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u230	I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 8. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day love stuff. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposals of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for election to a judicial office of the Court of Justice and the appointment of a judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and a motion for a decision on the appointment of the Republic of Slovenia, a notice from the Court of Justice in Maribor, a criminal section concerning the indictment brought against the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia, a notice from the Court of Justice in Ljubljana concerning the action brought by the private prosecutor against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and a motion for a decision on the appointment of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Slovenia for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, a motion for a decision on the establishment and the tasks of the Constitutional Commission of the Republic of Slovenia and a decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Natasa Vogrincič to the Court of Justice of the Court of Offences at the Judge for the Offences of Gornja Radgon. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was considered by the electoral commission as the working body and submitted to the assembly a proposal for a decision which you received by reference. I note that there are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Natasa Vohrinčič to the judicial seat of the Judge for the offences before the Judge for the Offences of Gornja Radgon. We're voting. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Ms Maja Tratnik to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, as the working body, and submitted to the assembly a proposal for a decision which you received by reference. The debate is not possible because there was no application. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Vice President. My explanation might be a little strange, because it'll be very positive. By the way, I've known Judge Tratnik for several years. Together, we have been a member of the previous Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia for five years, and I consider it to be an excellent expert. I am so particularly pleased today that I will be able to vote in favour of her election to the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Maja Tratnik to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I note that 62 Members voted against no one. I'm at 65. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision appointing a Republic Election Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? I guess not. You're a member of the group. Mr Franz Sušnik, SDS, has the floor. He doesn't want a word. LDS delegation group. Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u233	We will not support the decision because it does not respect mathematical principles, it is said that there are marriages which say that political parties must be represented in a proportionate manner, as well as the principles of equal opportunities. There's no woman among the nominees, and the one who was a candidate probably didn't have the right name. The disproportionate representation occurred to the detriment of the SDS client and to the detriment of the LDS client.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u234	Thank you very much. There is also a debate between Members and Members. Mr Rudolf Petan, SDS, has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Aloise Sok, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I think that, in view of what has now been said by the Liberal Democracy, there is something to be said and it is necessary to clarify that the matter will not be carried out, as if the Liberal Democracy had been damaged in the appointment of the Republican Electoral Commission. The Commission for Elections and Appointments had the opportunity to appoint three members and three alternate members. Political parties have proposed their candidates. In this election, the Liberal Democracy proposed two candidates. She proposed a candidate for a member and a candidate for an alternate member. Even before we voted, the Liberal Democracy was advised to withdraw one of the proposals, however. Since they did not want to do this in the LDS, but they remained in their proposal and continued to explain that they belonged to them in accordance with the electoral result obviously two, both as a member and as a substitute member, remained the only logical one that is now provided for in this proposal. This is that the ruling coalition has two members and one alternate member, and that the opposition has one member and two alternate members in this division. If you add that up, you're left with position 3 - 3. However, if you would have listened to this advice and withdrawn one of your candidates, if you had only stayed with the proposal for a member, then you could have made a different decision on the committee and could have a liberal democracy member and a United List of Alternate Members. Now the matter is such that the United List of Members is a member of the Liberal Democracy. It's a logic that couldn't have been worked out otherwise, just for that reason, because you've always insisted stubbornly that you have to have two. We have decided that every parliamentary party on this committee has one, it is said, six seats were, except for the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which has not proposed anyone, not for membership or for alternate membership. That's the logic. I think the proposal before us is optimal. And now, as far as the appointment of a woman is concerned, and with the wrong name, it's always trying to trick us. If you are convinced in the Liberal Democracy that there should be a woman on this committee, then every day - and I also ask you: Why didn't you propose a woman? You have not proposed her to be Vice-President of the National Assembly, you have not proposed her to the Republican Electoral Commission, but you are always saying that there must be more women in these positions. As for the woman proposed by the University of Maribor, the University of Maribor proposed three candidates for one member. Instead of making her own choice and proposing only one, she proposed three and then, of course, left the election and appointment committee to make that choice. At least you can claim that the last name had any connection to the appointment of a member of the University of Maribor. That is why, Mrs Shirca, I would politely ask you to stop with these xenophobic comparisons and these arguments once and for all because they have no real basis. I'm already allergic to this because we can hear it all over again from your mouth. One of the Slovenian rivers says that someone always explains what he is burdened with. I don't want you to go through what's bothering you or carrying some frustration inside you - maybe these names get on your nerves - to always push it on someone else. That's why I stopped by because you said the same thing again in this National Assembly today, what we wanted to tell you in Kviaz, is that it is not true and of course you are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-16-SDZ4-Izredna-05.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a Republican Election Commission for a period of four years. We're voting. Of the 68 Members and Members present, 56 votes to 10. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court notice in Maribor, Criminal Section, concerning the indictment filed against the MP of the National Assembly of Zmaj Jelinčič Plmenite. The notice was forwarded to the county court in Maribor, the penal department. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I give the text to the rapporteur of the Commission. Does he? [[He doesn't want to.]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 270 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22(2) of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Court in Maribor, Criminal Section, Administrative Number K341/2002, of 4.11.2004, concerning the indictment brought against the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia for the criminal offence of aid to the criminal offence of attempted murder pursuant to Article 46 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of 24, Article 19 of the SFRJ Criminal Procedure and the first paragraph 4 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Justice of Slovenia does not grant immunity to the Member of the Republic of Slovenia." We are voting on this. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. He shall examine the notifications or requests made by the District Court in Ljubljana concerning a private action brought against Member of the National Assembly, Dimitri Kovacic. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana for consideration. The notification was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court of Ljubljana of 9.11.2004, administrative number K262/2003, with regard to the action brought by the private prosecutor for the offence of infringinging an offence under Article 108(1) of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia to Mr Dimitri Kovacic and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." We're voting. I'm detecting the outcome of the vote. With 68 members present, 62 votes against 4. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to the representative of the LDS delegation to present my position. Does he? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We're voting. In the presence of 69 Members and Members, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decree establishing and the tasks of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decree was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. The LDS representative shall have the floor. Does he? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the SLS President? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. We're voting. I note that of all the 68 Members present, 68 voted in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Finally, a proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. Does the representative of the LDS delegation want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I note that, in the presence of 68 Members, 67 voted against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time conclude the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
