ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franz Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Franz Kangler, Milan Kopushar from 13.30 p.m., Yuri Malovrov from 14 p.m. on, Aloz Peterle, Majda Širca, Dušan Vukko from 16 p.m. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE CONSIDERED REQUESTS OF THE COMPETITION OF THE COMPETITION OF THE NATIONAL COOPERATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION, FOR THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE Tax PROCEDURE OF EPA 1244-III TO BE ADOPTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CURRENT PROCEDURE At its meeting on 9 April 2004, the College of Presidents decided that the proposal for a tax procedure law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Within five days of the decision of the College, a group of 18 Members, signed by France Tsukjati, requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, a decision of the College be taken by the National Assembly. Does the proposer's representative wish to speak with regard to the College's decision to consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure? Master Visjak, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Of course, the fundamental reason for the applicants is to reclassify the emergency procedure into a regular procedure mainly in the difficulty and not least in the scope of the tax procedure law. This is a system law that is extremely important for the development of an effective tax system in our country. It is a law which has 407 articles, which is essentially made up of one rapporteur, and, last but not least, it is clear from the objectives and principles of the law what the ambitions of the law are. And if I read only one, which could be too little, I would say, idealistic, namely, the purpose of the law is that the fulfilment of tax obligations is also the fundamental value of every citizen. I think that this is such a strong claim, it is said that everyone under the basic value will consider that they will bear the tax burden of what they are doing, or that they will fulfill their tax returns as they are and as they are right, and not least that they will also look over their fence and see whether their neighbour or his employer does so. In short, it is a series of systemic solutions covered by the general work, part of the tax procedure, tax enforcement, international cooperation in tax matters, the procedure for collecting certain types of taxes, of course criminal and transitional provisions, together with 407. There have been too many bad practices in this House that we have adopted such systemic laws overnight, and the results have been that, because of the voting machine, we have taken decisions proposed by the government without any serious reflection and consideration in Parliament itself. I understand the plight of the rulers that some laws need to be put under the roof even before May 1st. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u3	May I have a moment, a moment, a moment! [[...]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! Members, please, who, however, like to draw attention to peace, when the meetings themselves lead not to telephone calls and so on. Say, Mr. Lavrinz. I'm asking for peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u4	We understand, of course, that some solutions need to be adopted before Slovenia enters the European Community, but the government and, of course, the ruling coalition should propose such a law substantially earlier so that it can be adopted or not adopted in Parliament on a regular basis. Now we get just ahead of the workers under the urgent procedure of the system law and according to the work of this Parliament, because today we met up to half two nights and are also expected to consider this law at the emergency meeting of the Finance Committee tomorrow, I think that the conditions for some serious, thorough and responsible treatment of this issue are not met because it is too important for them to adopt it under urgent procedure. That is why we are proposing, of course, against the College's decision to go through the emergency procedure and propose a regular procedure so that at least in this parliamentary procedure part of these solutions can be adopted and corrected. Finally, amendments from some interested associations are also coming, and I do not think that it is appropriate to rush at the expense of quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much. There is no discussion on this request, there is no explanation for the vote, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: "The proposal for a tax procedure law shall be dealt with on an urgent basis." We're voting. 48 present, favoured 33 votes to 15. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that this proposal will be addressed by the assembly following an urgent procedure. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CROSS LAW - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Mrs Vida Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Dear Members, good afternoon! Welcome on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Amendments to the Feed Law were already adopted by this National Assembly in 2001. We are therefore coming up with changes because several new directives have been adopted in this area, in particular for feed additives, for the area of labelling of genetically modified organisms, something relating to the registration of establishments and, of course, the biggest reason is that the definition of the internal market needs to be aligned with the European Union, which means that Slovenia becomes part of the internal market of the European Union. If I conclude, it is mainly a technical law, please, of course, that you also accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mr. Master Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 28th urgent meeting, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the feed law as a parent labour force. As has already been said, the objectives of the proposed law have ensured the coherence of the internal market and the customs union and the necessary regulation of the rules of import and the internal market. In the presence of representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture as well as representatives of the legislature in the National Assembly, the Committee adopted eight of its amendments and also included them in the amended bill, so that the conditions for deciding on this law are in fact met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok, Nova Slovenija, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry. So, it is true that the National Assembly has already passed the Feed Law and it may not be too much if I remind you today of one very exciting debate that we had at the time in this National Assembly, namely, the proposer suggested, at least colleague Juban will remember that all consignments of feed in transport, regardless of packaging, must be accompanied by health certificates. At that time, it was argued that this was necessary to comply with EU legislation. Parliament did not believe that at the time, but we did not, and today, when we actually align this law with EU directives, we can see that this is not being introduced into the law; that is, we were right. So, at the time, we firmly said one of those superstandards that the Ministry was trying to bring into law, we said no. And we have even more in our legislation. And I like the fact that the Minister, who was confirmed in Parliament yesterday and will serve for at least six months or about six months as Minister of Agriculture, has promised that he will also remove the superstandards that the National Assembly, by voting mostly, has put into our agricultural legislation. As far as this law is concerned, it must be said that the law is in fact very short, very clear. It simplifies certain animal feed legislation matters, namely that we will carry out joint monitoring in the EU and also register establishments producing compound feed and storing these compound feed and containing protein supplements at the same time. This should be said to be only for compound feed that has been added to protein supplements. What bothers us in the New Slovenia Group in this law and what we have also warned on the Committee is the reintroduction of some vague notions. On page 45, he says that the Minister shall determine which are the less demanding additives to be added to the compound feed. Therefore, we simply cannot believe that European legislation would be so incompletely written because of the weather crisis, because all these laws are now being passed by emergency procedure, and we have not been able to study the European directives precisely in the opposition. We are convinced that the additives added to the feed should already be registered in the law or should be an integral part of the law, but not that the law gives the possibility for the Minister to prescribe, by means of a sub-law, what are those feed additives that are less demanding. Such solutions always serve only one purpose, namely, that, at the expense of and through the intervention of different lobbyes, such or other submarital solutions be adopted. It may not be necessary to point out once again on behalf of the New Slovenia Group on a fact which I have already pointed out on behalf of this party here in Parliament, including the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Kovacnik, on "hearing" in a large way. We expect a solution in the area of disposal of slaughterhouse waste. Such a solution, as we now have in the Republic of Slovenia, is anti-economic, is uneconomic. In fact, Slovenian agriculture is causing great damage on the one hand and, on the other hand, we are unnecessarily polluting the atmosphere. The known fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia all slaughterhouse waste, regardless of its origin, is also said to be non-hazardous slaughterhouse waste, which is about 80% of the total mass, in Koto we convert to bone-meat flour, and then we incinerate them harmlessly in the thermal power plant Šostanj. This is a huge damage to Slovenian agriculture. In this way, from the agricultural sector to the energy sector per year [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - I'll finish right away - spill about 5 billion Slovenian tolars. [[...]] An end must be made, and harmless slaughterhouse waste should be processed into protein concentrate, while those who are at risk are harmful, and those who are destroyed by this procedure, as we know it, must be done. So we will support this law because it is indeed a matter of compliance with European Union legislation, but I have also pointed out some of the dilemmas of the past on behalf of New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Mag. Kramberger - no. Good. Mr Barovic, position of the Slovenian National Party
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the competent ministry! Indeed, the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law in essence indicate that the existing 2001 Feed Law does not provide the basis for the implementation of European rules. It is true that the principles, goals, and principal solutions of the law are those that follow the principle of traceability from barn to table, providing safe food, with feed of course, which is one article in this chain. It is true that the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health, animal health and the environment, etc. All the provisions read in the Rapporteur, by the proposer and by the speed that kills, I say again, everything is fine and fine. However, I do not know whether respected colleagues, especially those who are competent, may have asked on my right side whether this law is burdensome or not of Slovenian agriculture. Whether or not it offers him what he needs as a protection at this time, I am talking about Slovenian agriculture at the time of entry into and protection of the European Union. Of course, because ridicule of these kinds is not strange. However, I am not a resident in the agricultural field, but I respect farmers just as much as I respect miners or industrial workers, unlike some who are "crowding". Let's keep going. This law speaks only of what should be done and done, but it does not say anything about the content itself. In this law we find: prohibition of production, prohibition of traffic, prohibition of storage of feed use, prohibition of production, sale, storage of additives. The Minister is the main hero of this story. The Minister defines labelling, the Minister defines packaging, the Minister determines transport, the Minister specifies the content and the method of testing, the Minister determines, the Minister authorizes the laboratory, the Minister prescribes the conditions, the Minister prescribes the methods, the Minister determines, the Minister appoints, the Minister refers, the Minister permits, the Minister rejects, the Minister determines and the Minister decides, the Minister accepts the monitoring, defines the costs, the Minister issues the regulations, the Minister publishes the lists. Then why are we even talking about this law if the Minister decides? Why are we here now? Article 120 in the second paragraph and Article 153 of the Constitution state that the legislator, this is a national assembly, must regulate the content. What choice do we have to regulate the content? What content do we find in what we are now talking about? The question, if you have read precisely, is the number of regulations that the Minister must draw up. Well, this law is, of course, due to be in force on 1 May, it must be in force on 1 May, the content of the sub-laws, which must be formulated according to the decrees of the Minister, Minister, Minister of State; however, if these acts are to be taken together within two years - I give him my hand, I look him in the eye and I sincerely congratulate him. In the Slovenian National Party of this type of reception determined who can do something and how he can do something or how he can do something, but not what, nor any content and no protection for the Slovenian farmer, none, absolutely none - if you have looked closely. We will not absolutely support this in the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik, position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Dear Vice President! A respected choir! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were one of those who in 2001 had already pointed out the inadequacy and over-standardization of the feed law that was adopted at the time. At that time, you explained to us that these are the requirements of the EU that need to be accepted and that there is no other way out. In fact, it has proved to be one of the key agricultural laws which, in its content and substance, provides and reflects the concern of this national assembly and the Government for safe food, that everything was too overstandard and all too binding and was an obstacle to agriculture, an unnecessary complication of the rules of the game in this area. For this reason, and in the fact that we are currently facing a flood of sub-legislative acts and regulations in the field of agriculture, according to the Minister who left yesterday, Minister But, at this Ministry, more than 150 sub-legislative regulations have been adopted and because of disagreement with the procedure for the adoption of the said legislation, we will not support that law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, although we agree with the objectives of the proposed law and agree that certain matters relating to the internal market and the customs union need to be aligned with this law and that the rules of import and rules of the internal market should be regulated. Finally, the correctness of our prenormation assumptions is again highlighted and we welcome in this law all that goes on in terms of simplifying registration of establishments for processing and storage of feed. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to make it clear and once again express disagreement with the nature of the procedures. It is not about harmonising some legal matter with some new directives. It is simply that people at the Ministry of Agriculture have not done their work in a timely manner, despite the fact that there are currently 819 employees employed at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, which is said to be about 10 times more than in 1992, when 96 people were employed at the Ministry. It should also be pointed out that in addition to the 819 people at the Ministry of Agriculture, there are around 700 public foresters and accelerants in the agricultural and forestry chamber. All together, it represents one very large fund which should and could take care of some emancipated and orderly procedure for the adoption of the necessary legislation in the field of agriculture as well. As a reflection of the protest, once again, we will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be moved by Mrs Lidija Majnik. No, no, no. Thank you very much. There were no amendments. As no amendments have been tabled in the supplementary proposal of the law, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading. I am informed, however, that the government has prepared some harmonisation amendment. Could the government please explain what this is about?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u16	At the attention of the Secretariat of the National Council for Legal Affairs, we have prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 1, which harmonises the content of Article 4. According to my information, the amendment is in preparation and only Members can get it. So it would be wise to vote on the other articles first if you would allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I wouldn't be opening up procedural questions right now. It is easier for us to accept this Government's interpretation of the harmonisation amendment than for any third-reading amendment. I'm breaking this point until we have the material on the table. And we're going to the next item on the agenda, that's NA 4. POINT, FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF PROVISIONS IN AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURE, REQUIRED PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Your Honor! Hello again. In this case, we are actually coming up with a proposal for one law, which, from the six sectoral laws, coordinates only one topic, which is to align with the word 'import' or 'wnos' of goods to the customs territory of the Member States of the European Union. These laws now state that this is the customs or trade area of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now no longer the entry point and we are only talking about imports into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the main reason. However, I must say that with the transition to the Schengen border, some inspectors are actually moving inside, and the National Assembly will recall that we also talked about food inspectors or quality inspectors in the feed law. These inspectors are no longer an independent inspection, but they are part of the agricultural inspection and these inspectors are now not working at the border, there remain only the fitness and veto inspectors. And we have also used this amendment of the law to effectively transfer their competence to the interior, and, as I said, they remain at the border by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, double inspectors, as the European Union requires us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. Master Janez Kramberger will report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This law was also considered by the Committee at its 28th emergency meeting as a parent working body. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which found and warned of a number of large-scale amendments to the law proposed to comply with the legal order of the European Union, the draft law also contains provisions whose content is linked to the harmonisation of certain laws: to the law on offences, and in part to comply with the law on State administration, which in fact goes beyond the grounds given in the introduction of the grounds for amending the law. The Committee has taken into account all the comments made by the legislative and legal services and has also adopted the relevant amendments. He also took into account the suggestion made by the College of the President of the National Assembly that all those provisions not directly linked to the acquis of the European Union should be deleted from the text of the law. Thus, we have adopted amendments that connect, so we are talking about six laws: the Veterinary Act, the Plant Health Act, the Forest Reproductive Material Act, the Agriculture Act, the Animal Health Act and also the Seed Material Act of Agricultural Plants. Therefore, taking into account the opinion of the representatives of the agri-economic chamber and the legislative and legal services, I think 32 amendments have been adopted, thus deleting those provisions of the law which are not directly related to the acquis of the European Union and drawing up a supplementary proposal to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr Aloise juice, Nova Slovenija, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry! So we met with this law towards the end of our term of office, just as we were explained by some sort of omnibus form of law-making. This is when one law amends a whole series of agricultural laws. I have to say, the system isn't that bad. It's a good idea. The question is, of course, and this has also been raised on the Committee, how users will know that changes to a specific law, for example in the veterinary field, are also in a law called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Agricultural Laws. So this could, in practice, be some kind of problem. Otherwise, even though this law is about to comply with the European legal order, it will require a number of sub-legislative acts. So after this salary, after this content, as I have already said in the feed law, in some ways empty matter, because the Minister will regulate and prescribe basic matters that should be written in the law by means of a sub-law. Among other things, the Minister will prescribe by means of a sub-legislative act what good agricultural practice is, even though it is now fully public and well-known under the conditions of the European Union. Otherwise, the law lays down more precisely the procedures for importing agricultural products, then the system of labelling is needed and, above all, the responsibility of individual services is very important. Individual services in this area will therefore no longer be able to invent some of their demands and some superstandard principles in the future, and that is actually a good thing. I would like to remind you, once again, even when we have dealt with certain laws, that law, for example, is now putting an end to the feed inspection. If you go to watch the magnetograms of the debate at the time, you will be able to read in the magnetograms that the opposition had already warned that we do not need such inspections, so that the feed should be easily controlled by agricultural inspection and that is now being enforced somehow by this law. What this law does not bring and where we rightly expected a certain change - I just want to touch the veterinary law. Thus, this law still retains a health certificate in internal traffic. Minister Booth's promise, which is no longer a minister at the moment, was that as soon as the register of bovine animals, the register of pigs, was established, the ovine and caprine animals would be removed as a document of internal transport which the other Member States of the European Union did not know. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that this is not the case today that the set document, as key in internal traffic, retains and, of course, this solution presents on the one hand a financial burden for our breeders, and on the other hand the organisational burden of our farmers, because they have to look for a document, obtain this document if they want to carry out internal traffic or if I say otherwise, if they want to send animals to the slaughterhouse. From an epizootiological point of view, such a document is totally unnecessary, I say that again, I also advocate as a veterinarian and do not contribute to any greater safety in the food chain. It does not contribute, however, because in our slaughterhouses we have employees of official veterinarians and inspection services who slaughter and manufacture all food products on the line before processing plants leave, also inspect and are under constant control. It is also a kind of regulation in our veterinary law that we know two categories of supervision, namely the official veterinarians and inspectors, in the EU Member States, this is resolved in a different way. We also expect here that the new Minister, who comes from the veterinary field, has arranged this matter for the European legal order to be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of agriculture and forestry. At the same time, we note, as has already been said in the speaker's presentation, that, of course, there may be difficulties in implementing this law at a certain time. Indeed, the fact is that this law touches six laws: the Veterinary Act, the Plant Health Act, the Forest Reproductive Material Act, the Agriculture Act, the Animal husbandry Act, as well as the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. Of course, this one, which must be told at this point, is probably also based on the fact that the government's legislative service is a year and a half after it was clear that Slovenia will enter the EU as of 1 May 2004, still insists on the dictatorship of internal market regulation only within the Republic of Slovenia. The relevant solutions in the transitional and final provisions would certainly reduce the list of laws to be saved and adopted in this so-called alarming week. Nevertheless, since it is really only a matter of adapting to the European legal order, we will adopt this bill in the parliamentary group, but, of course, only by the way, we expect some unnecessary superstandard solutions to be removed as soon as possible. Especially here in the field of veterinary law. Indeed, it is also a matter of creating equal opportunities, criteria to ensure that Slovenian agriculture is as competitive as possible in other European countries. Of course, at the same time that it will not be heard that the problem is only in the veterinary field, it must be openly said that these are also superstandards in other areas, including outside agriculture, so it would probably be necessary, both in view of the greater competitiveness of agriculture and the economy, to actually prepare an overall analysis and, of course, the way in which more competitiveness is actually ensured both in agriculture and in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, and a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to certain laws in the field of agriculture and forestry has come into play in a more extensive manner than, of course, was then prepared to be adopted by the National Assembly, and also in our Group of Members, we support such a direction that, as long as we are in one law solving problems in six laws, it is then necessary to do so only in the part necessary for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We have also agreed with the bill's proposal to adapt legislation in due time before Slovenia enters the European Union. The law itself seeks to ensure free circulation between Member States and to regulate imports and exports to third countries, to the customs territory of the Member States, and to ensure uniform regulation of provisions on offences also in material laws. It is interesting that trade between Member States in the internal market, which is an area of the Member States of the European Community, is also regulated by European rules. In the case of customs legislation, veterinary legislation is also directly implemented and, of course, in this law, the biggest part of the speech was on those veterinary regulations, since in some regulations it is special and slightly different from customs legislation. However, it is necessary to harmonise and simplify the basic arrangements relating to trade, imports and exports, allowing the traffic between Member States and third countries to proceed smoothly. The internal market itself is contained in the founding Treaties of the European Community, which means that there is a single regulation in all Member States of the European Union, and also that such requirements and conditions do not allow derogations between the laws of the Member States. It is at this point that, of course, there has been controversy and reflection as to whether the proposed resolution does not introduce unequal animal transport conditions within the European Union, of course, unequal conditions for Slovenian farmers, and this is mainly reflected in the application of the veterinary certificate. Indeed, the veterinary certificate in transport within the Member States of the European Union is not supposed to be prescribed and, of course, it is not necessary to use it in Slovenia. All of this is supposed to help breeders have less production costs and, of course, to become more competitive in the open market, which will be established, and which, as I said, will also be controlled within the country itself with veterinary legislation. We believe, however, that it is necessary to follow the bill's proposal at this stage also at this point in the sense that consumer protection, in particular consumer health protection, has priority, and that, as long as all solutions in this area are more seriously cleared in the coming period, it is not wise to intervene and it is possible to release transport even with food that is not medically appropriate. Therefore, we will support the law in this sense in a way that will still preserve solutions that will ensure a healthy diet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you again, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues! Representatives of the Ministry! We absolutely believe and respect the principle that if you want to join a club, you have to respect its rules. That's absolutely true. It means that if Slovenia enters the EU with a contract providing for the free movement of goods, services, capital and people, it must also respect such a contract. Such a contract should also be a fundamental principle of this law; therefore, to ensure free circulation between Member States, to arrange for imports and exports to third countries to the customs territory of the Member States and to ensure uniform regulation of provisions on infringements of material laws, right. After reading the opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to certain laws in the field of agriculture and the economy which it has issued, the legislative and legal service has created me with two sentences. First time. The substantive basis for the adoption of the law should be the obligation for the Republic of Slovenia to implement the proposed solutions, which constitute compliance with the European legal order, by 1 May, which is also the main argument for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. So the argument is already again some numbers, some dates and this is suddenly 10 days before this date! In particular, I was struck by the claim or the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which states that the bill contains provisions which relate to the harmonisation of certain laws with the law on offences, partly by the harmonisation of the law on State administration, which goes beyond the framework of the introductory justifications for the adoption of a legislative proposal. I also listened to and understood Mr Kramberger's respected colleague. I will ask you, however, that you have taken into account on the Committee all 33 articles or amendments to this article, which have been proposed in the legislative and legal service. That's how I figured it out. But I prefer to ask you, or the competent lady from the Ministry, whether that's the case. Whether in this country we have taken into account everything I consider to be a legal service. And let me finish with something else. In the last paragraph of the explanatory note, the Rapporteur states: "The internal market regulation is contained in the founding Treaties of the European Communities, which means that it is a single regulation in all Member States of the European Union, and also that, due to such certain requirements and conditions, derogations between the laws of the Member States are not permitted." Nice, but a Slovenian farmer and one, I'll say, a farmer from Bavaria, of course, they're very similar, in the opinion. They are both the same, the same rules apply to both of them, and they are both nice; one in Bavaria, an enema in Slovenia. If so, I would be the first to support such changes in the law, but unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, that is not the case. It's not like that! And on the nose the adoption of such laws, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian national parties, forget about the Slovenian farmer and his adaptation and his benefit or his suffering at that time, compared to the already developed ones, is of course an illusion. And one more thing! I can't get past the financial consequences. In all the laws we have adopted these days, these are all the laws with the EU code, it says, the financial consequences, the law has no financial implications for the state budget, it is called that country. Well, that was great. In comparison, I have to say, in the law on compliance with the European Automobile Tax Law, where we were happy to believe that this is the case, and the next day we read in newspapers and heard, of course, from experts that this does not mean anything other than 20, 25%. But of course, these are not financial consequences for this country, because obviously the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, at least in that area which does not belong here, pay 20% more tax, but this is not for the country, because obviously they are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for this country. I will not personally support this law, but other colleagues and colleagues will decide on the answer for which I sincerely ask - once again: whether you have taken into account all the doubts of the legislative and legal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik, position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u30	Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! In 1993, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on the development of agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia, based on family farming and co-natural food production, and on the development of agriculture and long-term provision of production or fertility of agricultural land. Everything's fine and fine. Unfortunately, reality is completely different. In Slovenia, 10 farms fail daily, self-sustainment falls below 60%, the volume of gross social product represented by agriculture has fallen to 2.5%, and we have about 2.5% in growth. 100,000 hectares of the highest quality agricultural land. All of this is due to the ease of adopting agricultural legislation and we have one of the most significant examples ahead of us. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to certain agricultural and forestry laws submitted by the Government to the parliamentary procedure three weeks ago is 26 March 2004, which, by the way, contains 83 articles. With this law, we are now correcting the most important, most crucial agricultural laws, by emergency procedure, without adequate public treatment, without obtaining relevant government opinions or NGOs in the field of agriculture. We amend the veterinary law, the plant health law, the forest reproductive material law, the agricultural law, the livestock law, the plant seed law. The legislative and legal service has expressed disagreement or disagreement with the content of more than half of the articles. 35 amendments have been tabled and adopted, and in the final form of an urgent procedure, I stress once again that a legislative proposal has been adopted, which is difficult as many as 72 articles. This is, I think, a unique case in legislative practice and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, such legal practice or such a way of adopting law will certainly not be supported. No one guarantees us that this proposal does not contain controversial or unacceptable provisions for a Slovenian farmer. No one guarantees us that this legal matter does not represent additional administration, additional standardisation in the field of agriculture; no one guarantees us that this proposal will not further deteriorate the economic situation of the Slovenian farmer. See, in the area of agriculture in the past period, we have legislated the whole species and all too many standards, which in fact constitute totally incompatible conditions of farming with the conditions of farming in neighbouring European Union countries. It is totally unacceptable to continue to use and require a veterinary certificate in internal traffic, it is totally unacceptable that the cost of slaughtering bovine animals in neighbouring Austria is 10 times lower in neighbouring Koroška than in the Republic of Slovenia. No one guarantees that this law represents the free movement of goods and services. I would like to warn you that the European Veterinary Authority has found that we have only one border crossing point for the movement of foodstuffs of animal origin on 1 May 2004 from the date of entry into the EU, namely the Coast. Imagine what a barrier this poses to our food processing industry, which is traditionally linked to the markets of the former Yugoslavia. For all of this, we will oppose the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And the position of Liberal Democracy. Mrs. Majnikov. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the parliamentary group, we will support the bailout law in six laws because we estimate that it is a minor change that has to take place by the time we enter the EU and because we estimate that the changes are such that they are part of the urgent procedure in a way that minor changes occur, and we are not burdened by the fact that these laws have to any extent influence and interfere with the situation in agriculture. Saying that I don't know what's going to happen is pure fiction. We have not been burdened with this and the laws that are in this package, we have read and found that it is in fact only those matters that are necessary and fall into the urgency of the procedure. For this reason, we also opposed various attempts at a solution in order to introduce something else into the marriages, which does not belong to this procedure. We agree that there are still many things to be resolved in these laws. One area is also the control of the animal’s food when it comes to health certificates in certain animal species. Interestingly, however, it is those who have pointed out the urgency that want to resolve matters in an emergency procedure in which such solutions do not belong. In the next period, controls on farms and the production of foodstuffs of animal origin will have to be established in the field of livestock and veterinary production. This will probably be possible in a timely and shorter time, but certainly not until the elections, when it will be possible to end the health certificate - the information is not from me and our heads of the parliamentary group, but we have been meeting with it for quite some time and it is realistic to expect, for example, for a period of one year, that the matter can be resolved in an appropriate way. It is also clear from these solutions in these laws that certain professional solutions will have to be taken over by the Ministry, which is smart, reasonable, because we have experience that certain professional solutions that come to our table in this house often go in the wrong direction and then the solutions are neither professional nor good. No superstandards are introduced in these laws, no reflections about which were discussed - 20 to 25% are invented, and of course, as the law states, there are no specific loads from the state budget and we do not see any other. Maybe there's just a sentence about the superstandards and the introduction of the various excessive inspections we've taken in this house. Indeed, they were created during the time of a director of the veterinary administration, who brought us where he brought us, and we accepted these solutions, which may have been superstandard in certain parts. Without a magnetogram, I personally remember that one of these solutions was spoken about and another was voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. Mr Kramberger, there is no general discussion under the Rules of Procedure, and there is no debate. This should have been done already on the board. So, we're going to vote on the law. Can we vote, please? I ask for peace in the Chamber and respect for the Rules of Procedure, of course. We're voting, please. Of the 54 present, 45 members and Members voted against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank you for your participation in the government. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ADDITIONAL LAW, The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. This will be Mrs. Secretary of State, Milojka Kolar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law brings the last addition to Slovenia's legal order and full compliance with the so-called Sixth Directive adopted by the Council of the European Union last October and redefines and regulates the place of taxation relating to the supply of electricity and gas through distribution companies. This solution will not affect taxation in the final consumer, but will significantly facilitate the taxation of electricity and gas in transport between distributors. Furthermore, the Government proposes to supplement the law by additional exemption from value added tax for goods imported into the free zone, free warehouse or customs warehouse, as well as exemption for services carried out in this warehouse or zone. However, since in this case it is a relief which can only be introduced into national legislation by means of a special, so-called consultation procedure, which will not be completed by 1 May 2004, the transitional provision of the law provides that this solution or exemption will be implemented as soon as the proposed regime is confirmed under this procedure as provided for in the Sixth Directive for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Cyril Pucko, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee considered this bill at one of its last meetings. In this regard, we have found or note that we are also in such a rush because the government, based on years of experience, did not want to follow what they were advocating or clarifying tax rulings, what is considered port services, and could have resolved matters that the Secretary of State had said a little earlier in February, even though they did not think they should have done so. At the same time, they had to replace the text of the law on the grounds that they had included in the amendment of Article 32 as well, which they could have done on the first proposal of the law. For this reason, there would not be so much discomfort with regard to the procedure itself. The Committee adopted three amendments. I propose that we adopt the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Jožef Bernik, Nova Slovenije has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The government states in explanation that this is another one, a pardon, of the laws to be adapted to European standards. The content of this Act is to be aligned with the legal order of the European Union by Directive No 6. If we believe that the government is following these directives, and in fact we have never actually discussed it or gone into it, even though one would like to be assured by the government, I can now say one thing. Article 8 of this proposal introduces a novelty which removes the group account and the government in this explanation states, of course, that this article is deleted and that the remainder of this Article, which relates to the group account, is deleted. However, it is of course interesting that some large and economically developed countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom know and maintain the group account. Now the question is, why is this Article 6 not applicable to certain Member States? Now the second question is whether this is a special requirement expected from candidate countries and whether this exception is beneficial for Slovenia or not. Maybe someone will explain it to us. On the other hand, it seems that the government has not explained all of this, and this may be one of those possible deceptions that we must always fear when we receive general assurances, not specific ones relating to exceptions that Slovenia will practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Ivan Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think we have much to talk about this marriage. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also had only three comments, three amendments to thirteen articles. However, it is only a matter of complying with the Sixth Directive. Above all, it is only necessary to say, in terms of the aims and principles of the law, that this is also a matter of preventing double taxation. Articles 6 and 7 are important in the law itself, pardon, Article 4, where we wrote more precisely who the taxable person is and Article 7, when we defined the exemptions for value added tax in the free zones, free and customs warehouses in the goods referred to in the preceding paragraph. It has already been said that this exemption will only apply after a publication which the EU will confirm that it agrees with this harmonisation of our legislation. Articles 2 to 6 will enter into force on 1 May 2005. All of this is in this law, and in fact much is difficult to say about it and without need. However, one other question is raised, which has been raised too few times in the National Assembly. Will not our work, our adoption of legislation in the future, be more regulated by EU directives? Whether we are going to introduce each directive into legislation in the country to which we are going to apply, or whether we are going to simply respect the directive. This is likely to be very common in the future National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much. The law will be supported by the Members of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj will present the position of the United Nations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I would like to point out that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the value added tax law. The proposed amendments concern three sets of proposed legislative changes. The first set includes solutions on the way in which the EU Council Directive is implemented, as regards the rules on the place of supply of gas through the distribution system for natural gas and electricity, which was adopted after the adoption of the last amendment to the value added tax law in 2003. The essence of this Directive is that it significantly facilitates the taxation of electricity and gas in transport between distributors. However, the second set of proposed amendments is that the provisions on the group account can no longer be applied. And in the third set, changes are made to those provisions of the current law which allow for a certain exemption. It is therefore also an exemption for services related to imports of goods intended for temporary storage or entry into the free zone, or for such goods a customs storage procedure, or an import procedure for exports exempt from value added tax, of course, provided that a so-called consultation procedure is carried out, on the basis of which it is necessary to obtain an agreement on the application of the relief also in Slovenia. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we accept assurances from governments that, immediately after the adoption of the proposed law relating to Article 31 of the Law, it will adopt a regulation that will, in the interests of clarity, give tax rulings on which services are taken into account, for port services, as certain problems have arisen in the implementation of this provision in practice. Therefore, we will also vote in the parliamentary group for the amended draft law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law set up by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the competent ministry, colleagues and colleagues! According to the Slovenian National Party, the law itself brings or is supposed to bring into our country a certain rating. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law could also result in a simpler system, according to the domestic word, of tax collection. Of course, we wonder whether the competent authorities are capable of making such a major change in such a short time. Of course, there are also two questions, or one essential if we combine it, what does this mean for liquidity. What does this mean because of the time delay that will arise, the collection of taxes at the borders of the previous system and the proposed way with the new law. We hope and wish that the new law will not bring any new costs that could further burden taxpayers. Above all, we are assessing in the Slovenian National Party, and we are also proposing or asking that our opinion be taken into account that such a law should be approached as soon as possible and that a more radical change in all tax rates is needed, in particular in the direction of decommissioning taxpayers, if so, and the creation of a monetary mechanism that would allow for a simpler review of the developments of such financial flows. We will not oppose the proposed bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy, Mr. Zoran Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government and fellow Members! In the LDS, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT law for two main reasons. For the first time, because we are coordinating our legal order with the two directives of the European Union, and for the second time, because this law also resolves all the uncertainties in the provisions of Article 32 of the VAT law relating to the exemption of VAT payments in free zones, free and customs warehouses and gives the government the possibility to define on this basis which services are taken into account as port services in amending the Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading of the amendments to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a legislative decision. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are near the hall to come to the hall so that this vote can also be carried out. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. That way we could go to the vote on the law. Let's wait a few more moments for our colleagues to come. Can we vote on the law? Let's vote please. Of the 53 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Now you have an amendment on the table to the 3rd item of the agenda. Since the next item in the proposal for an income law is quite extensive in all likelihood, I would ask you, however, whether you already have this amendment. Yes, we do. Then we can open the debate on this harmonisation amendment, as they call it at the government, to Article 1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Because no one wants to say a word [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I asked, and there were no opposites. [[...]] Then let's wait a few more moments. May I now ask if you all have the harmonisation amendment? It is about bringing Article 1 into line with Article 4, because Article 4 has been amended and the government has now harmonised it by amending Article 1, Article 16, where, for the word 'produced', it added the words 'the warehouses, packaging, preparing for the market or placing on the market'. Again, I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. Of the 50 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is now a full vote on the bill. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! Of the 52 present, 48 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government. We're moving to 28. Period of the day-- third defensively motion for a law of indemnity. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs. Milojka Kolar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Income Act, which is under consideration today, was forwarded by the government to the National Assembly for the first reading of December of the previous year. I am pleased that today we will have a third reading of this bill and will somehow round up and complete the preparation, many discussions and coordination on the subject of the basic tax law, which is, of course, an income. I assess that the debate so far on this law has been qualitative, long-term, and that the text drafted in the Second Review Assembly, together with the amendments adopted, follows the starting points, objectives and principles on which this law has been drafted and drafted. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this tax law is to introduce certain changes that will mean achieving the basic objectives of this law, and this is in the global burden of the debtors, especially those in the lower income classes, who will be burdened with this law in full to the level of the minimum income set by the Social Protection Act. The Government considers that the amendments adopted in the second reading have adequately addressed the areas, in particular the areas of taxation of capital profits, then of relief for various purposes, and therefore the Government of Amendments, which have been tabled on these third reading articles, does not support. The Government proposes to this esteemed assembly to adopt legislation in the form it is prepared and proposed for third reading. The discussions so far have shown that there have been extensive and that in the field of tax relief and exemption, a number of benefits have been added in the adoption process, such as child relief, special relief, relief for the self-employed in culture and journalist, as well as for athletes, as well as reliefs for various purposes, and, above all, the provision of special services has been given to facilitate the resolution of the housing problem. I therefore appeal once again to this esteemed assembly to adopt the proposed law for third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. First of all, Mr Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A very nice greeting to all of you, distinguished representatives of the government! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it still does not seem clear that this is a law of the profits of natural persons and that the final income of natural persons who want to be taxed should not make a big difference between the source of income itself. Above all, it is unacceptable and professionally not yet justified why the government in its proposal makes a difference in the taxation of interest, dividends and capital profits, as they should be treated together and in a more uniform manner, so that the savers do not decide on tax policy in terms of their savings. That's the principle of neutrality. It's not like that. Why not, we don't know. The only thing we know is the constant repetition of one and the same statement that this is in line with some principles, principles that are still not clear and will not be clear. We have just listened and we have heard the explanation of a government representative who insists on his views and the matter will soon be over when you vote on this law. Taxation of capital gains, we must also make it clear that it is a matter of taxation of capital gains, is being treated inadequately and proposed in this law. There is a big difference in our position and in the position that the government advocates. Why? Let's take a look at the history of this. It is mainly Article 87, where the essential concept is explained and written. If you remember, at the beginning the government proposed a concept of capital in which it included again one Slovenian unique, and this is a major share. What, though, was the original majority stake in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which insisted stubbornly on it virtually until the last moment? The bulk of the share is only those whose profits would be taxed, was only originally estimated at 10%, so to speak, above 10% of the capital. The futility of this concept is so eclectic that they finally realized it and changed their position. Why was all this so pointless? Very simple. We have specifically pointed out here from this place the futility of this original proposal that anyone who had more than 10% of the share, regardless of the nominal amount, would only be subject to small capitalists who came to capital with their creativity, not those who came to it with the ownership and concentration of the capital of former social enterprises. A concrete case was the case of one gentleman, whom we all know well, who has a 1% stake in Mercator and actually represents a thousand two hundred million tolars. If he sold it after this government proposal, he wouldn't have paid anything because it wasn't the bulk of it. But if someone sold 300 million in a smaller company, they sold 20% of the share, which would have already been taxed. It is incomprehensible and unfair that the government has changed its position and have come up with a different proposal during a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Instead of 10%, they proposed 1%. Predominant share of only 1%. When we asked the representatives of the government, in particular also Minister Dr. Marble, to explain to us where this concept - because you can review the magnetogram - there was really no answer. All of this was - original and this second proposal - written on the skin of certain persons. That is why we have insisted on the futility of this proposal. Now we are surprised during the session, during the second reading, with one new proposal, which is equally pointless and does not have any basis in any professional analysis, but is once again an expression of the will of liberal democracy and of all those who cooperate with it, where capital is to be placed, the bulk of the share is slightly different. Why he's so set up, we don't know. The explanation was, this is some average capital measure in Slovenian companies. Only capital gains will be taxed if there are more than 60 million in the company, which is supposed to be at least or more than 200 million. Why 60 not 30, why not 100, why 200, why not 250? We don't know that. Then you ask yourself, and you ask yourself again, and we'll be wondering where that came from. The opposition does not have its own professional services or direct access to know and can explain to you here today that it is pointless to decide on these things without knowing the structure of capital in our entrepreneurship so that we do not know how many companies there are, who is exempt, whom we forgive and who we impose this burden on. Dear colleagues, you don't know that. But you will accept that. Maybe in a while we'll find out who it was written on the skin again. But believe me, it's not the right approach. We stand for a very simple system. The system in which the capital is located is capital. And the capital gains, if there's a sale, the capital gains that you get to know in a professional way must be taxed. We are prepared, and we have also proposed this in our 91st amendment, which was not adopted to make a difference between the small shareholders who have invested in a company in the long term or those who are only operating in the short term on the Slovenian capital market. There was no listening to that. The time will come. He'll come unrelentingly. Because justice will not be respected in this bill, and sooner or later it will be enforced in Slovenia. On the other hand, the fact that the senselessness of approach is even more eclectic is based on what I said at the outset. The government introduces differences between taxation of dividend interest and capital gains which should be treated together and more uniformly than so far. That's going to have to be changed. With all the responsibility I can say that sooner or later, I think that sooner than we all imagine, we will have to change this law because it has no professional basis. However, the situation of our public finances requires that we look for different sources. If we do not look for different resources and additional resources, we will not be able to solve those problems that our fiscal policy should yet address. The housing issue of Slovenian young people is unresolved. You are well aware that this austerity scheme, which is supposed to be a contract between the State and the savers, has changed on the basis of a senseless approach to a certain section of the Lottery of Slovenia. There are 85,000 savers who should start getting their loans this year, the government has made sure that they have saved, that is to say that demand will increase, but it has not taken care of a sufficient increase in the supply. We can only expect an increase in prices. And the director, who now resigns and is responsible for the austerity scheme, behaved in Slovenian media how effective it was to have as many as 2,000 new apartments available now before autumn. What about the others? What about the ones that aren't there yet? Yeah, but they'll have to wait. How will we decide these matters? Not on the basis of contracts, not on the basis of what people have signed - we will decide by drawing. Therefore, I say that the savings scheme has become the section of the Lottery of Slovenia. This solution, which we have proposed in New Slovenia in order to actually include in income relief of total mortgage interest, at least mortgage interest for young families, in order to start solving this issue, cannot be resolved if most in this national council do not leave their decision to protect capitalists in Slovenia. That doesn't make any sense, but it's happening. And now, in the third reading, based on what we have heard from a government representative, it is certain that most of the national assembly will support this law. Of course, there are solutions in this law that we agree with. I am glad that the government has finally overlooked and abandoned its position as regards the subsidy to large families. However, I would like to say from this place that when I asked the Prime Minister this question, he mocked me and replied that I do not understand and I do not know what this is about. That's when I said, "Time will show I know what's going on." Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment you have accepted, it has also turned out that I knew what it was and that it was again a flat-rate personal discredit by the top representatives of this great coalition. Certain things are positive. However, the key problem, the redistribution of the burden of the tax system in Slovenia, was that which the government did not want to do, and most of them were not required to do so in this national assembly. It's sad, but it is. New Slovenia cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! When I, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats at the first reading of that Act, tried to make a common statement that we believe in the Group of Members that a package of tax legislation can only be adopted this year, assuming the very reasonable functioning of this Assembly, which is not, of course, wise or practical, if it is not entirely impossible to expect in the electoral year when Members and Members like to compete with proposals of various additional tax exemptions and transparencys that are necessary for the tax burden of individual groups of the population. That is why we have also indicated this common conclusion that it will be imperative that the Ministry of Finance reconsider the proposed legal solutions once the first responses to the proposed tax legislation have been collected. For the second time, we were able to conclude that the Ministry had very well summarized the open issues that had been raised. Thus, the necessary amendments have been prepared and also adopted in the field of special child welfare. The second set of these issues, which can also be covered by words, is a relief for various purposes, even today mentioned, it is also a matter of resolving or reducing the tax base, including with regard to agricultural policy, of course, it is also an exception to tax exemptions in the area of the housing scheme. We estimate that the relevant amendment has also properly carried out the taxation of the income of athletes, professionals and the possibility of amateur action, that income taxation is also an appropriate solution, as has been the solution for cultural workers and journalists according to our assessment of a good approach to the taxation of income from agricultural and forestry activities. Particular attention was also paid to the taxation of capital gains, which, of course, remained in the proposal to remain for three years. Special attention was also paid to the definition of taxation of interest, I mentioned already that the housing scheme was exempted. A lot of questions were also raised as to the budget of the municipalities, or to change or also the proposed options for the sharing of income between the country and between the municipality, the ratio of 65:35, some other views or solutions relating to Article 19 were also indicated, or also to ratings in Article 21 and perhaps more could be identified. In this second reading, I think that together we have been able to find that the proposed amendment has burdened taxpayers with the lowest incomes that have been threatened and that special attention has also been paid to farmers, families with multiple children and, of course, to the appropriate way also to resolve some of the particular professions that I have already talked about, whether they are top achievements and the area, I would say, other forms of incentives for saving. I think that the law has also adequately resolved agricultural matters, as it has also advocated, in the framework of coalition parties, the exemption of income for income from inter-neighbourly aid between agricultural holdings, since the calculation of cadastral income takes account of the cost of optimally used mechanisms, which most Slovenian farmers, as has been found, are also unable to achieve because of the small size of farms. Payments from agricultural policy measures have also been released, and I am mainly talking about environmental programmes here. It was therefore aimed at extending the period of gradual integration of these direct payments from agricultural policy measures and taxation, so that the full amount of income would be included in 2008. They also argue that the persons who carry out this basic agricultural and forestry activity are allowed to establish the tax base on the basis of the actual situation and therefore do not need to acquire the status of independent entrepreneur. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have also reviewed all the activities that have taken place during this time, but we may have found or believe that we have also set some substantive amendments to the supplementary proposal of the Income Act, to the second reading. If I mention only some, with the proposed amendment to Article 16, second paragraph, of which there has been a speech today, where the criteria for the principal equity share changes, which is the equity share in the capital and with the value of a proportional consideration of the other capital of the company reach at least 60 million tolars, but which the debtor has directly or indirectly through connected persons if the capital of the company after the acquisition of the equity exceeds 200 million tolar. It was then laid down that the profit from the removal of shares other than the principal shareholdings, if the withdrawal was made before the expiry of three years from the acquisition of that share, shall be set both unchanged and unchanged. I would also like to point out the amendments to Article 108, where we are talking about the maintenance of family members. Here too, relief for the second dependent child increased by 1.2 percentage points for the third dependent child by 6.2 percentage points for the fourth dependent child by 11.2 percentage points for the fifth by 16.2 percentage points and for the sixth dependent child by 21.2 percentage points and for the seventh dependent child by 26.2 percentage points. We believe that this has also been adequately resolved because, last but not least, this income also partially complements the social policy that we are pursuing or implementing in this area. With the amendment to Article 112, that is, in the part where relief is referred to for different purposes, the annual taxable base of the taxable person is also reduced in point 8, which has also been added for dependent children. With the proposed addition to Article 149, when we are talking about farm income and basic forestry activities and income from complementary activities, in which I have already mentioned something, I think it is also important that the exceptional holder of the farm, who will transfer this basic agricultural and basic economic activity on farm to the system of determining actual income and expenditure, makes it possible, through the average determination of income, to all family members who pay the compulsory social security contribution from these activities, to take into account indirectly the costs of the work of the family members, the key costs of their social security contributions. I think there is also a need to mention Article 150 of the Income Act. In our view, it is essential that this decision remains unchanged, since, under Article 150 or under this provision, the effects of the new Income Act will not affect the financing of municipal budgets until the implementation of the new Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which certainly requires an in-depth attitude towards the whole issue or all resources which are of a local or municipal nature. If, of course, you allow me yet before giving my position to the Group of Members, I would also like to reiterate the issue which is open, I am talking about Mr Kontić's proposed amendment to recognise or count the remuneration of persons with disabilities II. and III. categories. It's a problem that's been going on since 1995. I am sure that, in line with the agreement on this issue, it will also approach and, in addition to this general relief, which is 14.5%, which is valid for pensioners, and I think that this will somehow compensate or cover those differences with those who receive less compensation. However, if this is a higher remuneration from the remuneration received through the pension and disability insurance community, this range opens up and then these larger amounts of so-called income, which is, of course, somewhat incomprehensible for the recipient. I am sure that this matter will also be dealt with in the proposed manner as agreed. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will fully support the law with these harmonisation amendments. We will not support any additional amendments because we believe that the content or structure of the Income Act is what was most possible at a given time. Last but not least, all the additional amendments that have been adopted put an additional burden on the state budget of a good 8 billion. Problems will arise in 2005. At that time, of course, Members are back to fighting and proving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Dear representatives of the Ministry! In the Slovenian National Party, we first carefully examined the basis for writing this law, which is supposed to be a relatively high tax burden on natural persons, then the second basis of the Constitutional Court decision, the third comparability with the acquis of the European Union and the fourth reallocation of the burdens, which, of course, we have been most delighted in the Slovenian National Party. The objectives to be achieved by this are two, i.e. a balanced burden and unloading primarily, as far as we understand it, of natural persons. Our position, which we have drawn up in the Slovenian National Party, is such. I'll try to be sharp and short. In our view, the government claims or estimates that child support benefits will increase. As far as we have understood and assessed in the Slovenian National Party of course, in this case it is only to facilitate those with fewer children, i.e. one or even a family without children, and for other families in our opinion such a relief will have a particularly negative impact. In this regard, allow me, distinguished representatives of the government, to touch myself in this marginal group of children. The citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who carefully examined Article 108 and Article 109 of this Act or the proposal in the third reading, calculated and concluded that it was Slovenia, the mother of the mentally affected children - that, according to the new proposal, on the basis of Articles 108 and 109, it was intended to facilitate the mentally affected child under 18 years of age to be a million 700 tolars per year. For the elderly and the work of an incapacitated child, i.e. over 18 years old, for the work of an incapacitated and mentally affected child, I would have received a relief of 470,000 tolars under this law, which is, of course, completely illogical, because, logically, these young children also become less than older children in life. This, by the way, is the calculation of the affected people, who are very precisely then dedicated to the proposed law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also argues that the proposal for a law, if adopted, will reduce the tax burden on work and that the threshold of untaxed income should be raised. I think it is clear to all of us, including those who are more lax in this area, that the calculation is simple: if the revenues go down, the state spending remains unchanged, of course deficits or deficits. And the logical question of how to replace such a deficit. In the Slovenian National Party, it would be very easy to respond: such a deficit could be compensated by less public consumption or less public consumption in the part that is available or available to the State. In the Slovenian National Party we then assessed that such a way is probably not and will not be acceptable for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the government has found the simplest solution in this law, either with new taxes or with a system that will show up in two new areas, i.e. by extending the tax base or by introducing new types of taxes. It would make sense, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, to touch the ratio of the tax burden of work compared to the burden of capital. We know that the tax burden on work in the Republic of Slovenia, at least according to the data available, is among the largest in Europe. The tax burden on capital we have in the Slovenian National Party is among the lower in Europe. Well, I would say that, although we did not exactly burden ourselves with this in the Slovenian National Party, and that we do not seem to have disputed that capital would be less taxed, in particular, we estimate that it is very controversial that in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, very high taxes are also taxed and, above all, work. So much data we have put together in the Slovenian National Party on those areas which we consider to be controversial and are particularly worthy of concerns, questions and corrections. What is the position of the Slovenian National Party? We will wait to see decisions about the amendments that have been tabled, and then we will judge each one of us as to how he will vote or how he will decide. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is next and Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All colleagues and colleagues welcome, as well as representatives of the government! Before the expiry of the mandate, the Government had put in place a procedure to amend the two laws contained in the package of so-called tax legislation. This is the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons. These two laws, according to the Government, represent or amend these two laws in the view of the government as the so-called first phase of tax reform, which shows that the government has taken a phased approach. This, after all, makes it possible not to explain the whole. Therefore, it does not need to anticipate or discuss the effects in the next stages of the reform, nor does it need to discuss steps in the next stages of tax reform, including in those areas covered by other laws, such as the real estate tax law. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, tax reform should be presented comprehensively with clear objectives, with clear effects, both for individuals and legal persons. Thus, the government and, as a result, the Members went on to do something that we don't know where his tail is or where his head is or where things start, where the causes, the consequences, and how it's connected. In our parliamentary group, we have assessed that these changes do not have the character of reform, that they are only partial individual corrections, which are more intended to encourage the attention of the public and taxpayers in this pre-election period. No serious government takes on tax reform at the end of its mandate, but tax reform is in fact the first part of its takeover and then, through tax reform, it also checks its activities, its work and the effects it has caused. In this way, governments can also bear all the consequences for the proposals they propose. In this particular case, the government, the Robbins government, has allowed itself to make an unserious move and thus has shown that it is not serious about reform. Because he fears reviewing the effects of the proposed changes, because it is clear that all these changes will not be felt until 2006. This is said, halfway through the mandate of the future government, when we issue tax returns for 2005 and when these governments are probably gone, it will probably be new, certainly new and also slightly different. And when the consequences cannot be attributed to anyone else. Both laws were presented in this National Assembly as a related law, as a related system in which taxes increased, additional burdens on the economy of 35 billion, mainly on the basis of a reduction in investment incentives, and consequently for the same amount, individual taxpayers would be burdened by the same amount, saying so to individuals, in particular by increasing the overall relief. In the previous phase, in the second reading, some amendments, which have substantially disrupted the balance, have been adopted. These two laws that we have dealt with are not more coherent. Pluses and minuses are not harmonised and it is obvious that this will have consequences already in the budgets in the coming years and I am very interested in what the budget balance will be in this area next year. It would be appropriate for the government to get to know us about this now that it has these first calculations. I must say that we are pleased that certain tax reliefs have increased significantly in the previous treatment. I must say that we are pleased because of the fact that individual groups have become burdened, there are mainly some large families, athletes and similar categories. There's still some illogicality. I must say that somehow we are not the closest to the solution proposed for taxation of subsidies, agricultural subsidies. I think it would be appropriate for these subsidies, which the government is committed mainly to offset the changing or poor social conditions in agriculture, particularly environmentally acceptable farming, to maintain the cultural landscape, in order to leave these subsidies to farmers or owners of agricultural land unaltered, that is to say, at a level such as those paid. For these subsidies are also, on the one hand, a source of compensation for the differences between urban centres and rural areas. There are also some illogical reliefs, as already mentioned by Mr Barovic, about the disabled, especially the part concerning full-year-olds, for the work of the impossible disabled. We regret, however, that the government has not listened and has not been willing to listen to the opposition to tax the large capital gains generated during the transition period, which at least in the initial part were not created by creating a new value, but mainly by redistributing capital and by concentrating this capital in the hands of a smaller number of individuals. And we think that it would be right to tax part of or an important part of such capital gains and that part of it would be spent either to increase, to increase tax incentives or to cover the budget hole. But allow me to touch some more amendments that have been tabled in this law. First, I would have touched on the general relief, the individual relief that the coalition had reduced from three to 2%. I think it would make sense for this relief to remain at least three percent, as it has been so far, even though I personally think it would make sense to increase to at least five to six percent mainly because this increased relief would be taken into account to the greatest extent possible as a relief for the purchase of an apartment or for the construction of an apartment house, or for the payment of housing loans. The fact is that such an increased relief would have a significant impact on investment in the housing market. As a result, the revenue of the VAT and additional investments of the population in purchases is also paid. More or less, the loss in this part would be covered through additional or increased investments of the population and thus increased VAT. Another matter which, in our view, is still open and not sufficiently taken into account is the cost of the first child. The fact is, we have advocated that the material costs of the child are the same, whether in the family or in the parents or in the foster family. That is why we have also proposed that these matters be equalised. We do not think that a solution is appropriate when the nominally recognised monthly cost for a child in a family is about 15,000 tolar lower than those for children in foster families. The material costs are the same. The second part received by the foster parents is accounted for in one way or another; this stimulation is not taken into account here. We also support the amendment that has been tabled to take these costs into account. In our parliamentary group, depending on the debate on the amendments and also the amendments adopted, we will also decide to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'd like to say one more word, Mag. Mr Zoran Gračner for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Mr Vice-President, Government representatives and other fellow Members! Allow me, on behalf of the LDS MP, to present our view of the Income Act, which is now in third reading. Of course, the whole income law can be interpreted in two parts: one is positive and the other is negative. Surely not everyone can be satisfied with this law, but in our parliamentary group we believe or are confident, and we have also proved that the tax burden of natural persons in Slovenia will be greatly reduced. Especially for those with incomes of up to half the average wage, whose tax burden will on average be reduced by more than 40%, and for those with income between half and one average wage, which will on average be reduced by 19%. Thus, in the second reading, we also proposed a number of additional tax reliefs that concern either economically or socially disadvantaged debtors, including farmers, families with many children, or some intellectual professions, and individuals with superior achievements - journalists, professional athletes or athletes. With tax reliefs, we also want to promote housing and life savings. However, the most important additional changes that the LDS has been advocating over and over again are the following: First time. As part of the additional tax reliefs for agriculture, the tax exemption for beneficiaries of inter-neighbourly aid between agricultural holdings in the context of machinery rings and payments for agricultural policy measures for environmental programmes is a matter of tax exemption. It is also intended to extend the period of gradual integration of direct payments from agricultural policy measures into taxation from two to three years, or should be fully included in the income assessment only in 2008. It is also important for farmers to make it possible for those who carry out basic agricultural and forestry activities to identify the tax base on the basis of actual farm revenues and expenditure without having to acquire the individual's independent entrepreneurship status. The second most important additional amendment, which was that, in the case of relief from dependent family members, we proposed an increase in allowances for the first child 10 to 13,8 and 474,900, for the second child, an increase of 41,300 to 516,000 tolars or 15%, for the first child with three dependent children, tax relief will be equal to 48,8 - now 45% - or a million 679,400 tolars, with four dependent children will be 73,8% and two million,539,800 tolars, and with five children will be equal to 100% or three million, 572,300 tolars and for each further increase by 72,100 tolars. The third most important additional amendment, which we have advocated all the time, is that the inclusion of income from life insurance is also proposed as a means of promoting the conclusion of life insurance as a form of long-term savings or savings for old age. We are also proposing the exemption of income from the savings interest under the National Housing Savings Scheme, which is concluded for a period of 10 years, with the exception of interest on the withdrawal from the Savings Contract. This measure will certainly promote the resolution of the housing problem and, of course, the greater attractiveness of renting housing loans. The fourth most important novelty, or change we advocate, is that for those who may require compliance with standardised costs when determining the tax base of the following tax year, we have proposed an increase from 3 to 3.9 million tonnes of annual income. Fifthly, the tax base of the employment relationship should also include premiums for voluntary supplementary pension and disability insurance paid at the expense of a professional athlete by the employer to the providers of the pension plan, up to the amount equal to 100% of compulsory contributions for pension and disability insurance, for the employee of the insured, but not more than 50% of the sportsman's annual income. Due to the specificity of the sport career, which is significantly shorter than the general working age of workers, we propose a significantly higher tax relief. With such a solution, we will also stimulate athletes to allocate funds during the active period for additional pension and disability insurance from which they will receive income during sports retirement. This solution is particularly encouraging for young athletes who, at the start of sports activities, tend to think little about their social status and the situation after the end of a sports career. The next important change is that we propose the exemption of income for the creation or the execution of copyright based on the copyright contract. The next amendment is that income payments should also be exempt from the benefits of amateur, humanitarian and sports activities if they do not exceed 200,000 tolars per year. In this case, it is assumed that the purpose of these activities is not to generate income or that the remuneration is intended solely to cover the costs related to activity. The following is also an important change to the criteria for determining the principal ownership share, defined as any equity share on the basis of which the debtor has or has had, at any time in the past five years, a share directly or indirectly through the related persons, at least 1% of the voting rights share or at least 1% of the shareholding in the capital or in the individual class of companies whose shareholding capital exceeds 200 million tolar when the equity is acquired. So, if I withdraw all these findings, we will, of course, support the law on income in the LDS Club in the third reading. We will support the harmonisation amendments, but we will not support those amendments that were subsequently tabled and together burden the state budget of over 8 billion tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The draft law will be discussed in its entirety by Members and Members. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would just like to add that the changes in my presentation, which I have already had on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to add another part to the final application of these, or what these changes, which the Government has made to the second reading, mean now. Unfortunately, we did not get a second reading, but one wonders what is in the so - called 143. Article in its original form, today in 144. We propose an amendment where it is clear that the deadlines for the acquisition of capital referred to in the second point of Article 87(1) shall begin to be counted from the date of the actual acquisition of capital. That's what you make, clear rules. Why are we hiding now and looking for strange things? Let the profit of capital be taxed in some understandable way so that we do not make the difference that we are doing now. However, it will also be the period from which those five years are to be counted, provided for in the second point of paragraph 1, in order to be counted from the date on which the capital has been acquired. Without every miracle of strangeness. We are really concerned about what lies behind all of this, and why we cannot have a clear view. And we don't get a clear position from the government. Not only do we not know what they are actually planning to do, of course there is no explanation why they are doing it, they are doing it. But if we look at it on the basis of proposals that have already been on the table and have changed them, you can't have any other feeling than that we're going to continue to protect some that we shouldn't. And we are consciously deciding whether you are deciding that we will not be able to address other open issues of our society in this national assembly. One wonders what else has to happen, that we will finally understand this and that we will have a normal approach. The government, we have heard today, as well as representatives of Liberal Democracy, the Club of Liberal Democracy, boasting about how we will reduce taxes or burden the work. Well, the data we had so far was based on what was available to us, in 2000, 2001 and 2002. Now there is another new international comparison for 2003. You can see this on the Forbes website, which works annually called the "Tax Misery Index" or some table of the misery of taxation. When it comes to taxation - based on 2003 data - Slovenia is far from the top. What's going to change? Yeah, something's gonna change, one little thing's gonna change. However, if we look at the net effect, what the government boasts is that we will raise the rate to those minimum cost of living, which is very understandable and we approve, and at the same time cut off the general benefits from 3 to 2, it is said to the right and to the left; what will finally be left of this and we will see. And I suppose only real data, once this is done, will prove who really was telling the truth and who was deceiving it. And that's misleading. And there's some deceiving if we don't want to go into other dimensions of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. It is very interesting to monitor this debate, as well as the changes that have taken place in the adoption of the Income Act. The first and basic position of the government was that this income should achieve a more equitable distribution of income payments than it has been so far. The gesture is very good, important, even what has been done in this area, we must admit that. Both in the area of families and in the field of sports, and especially in the field of layers of lower income class. However, at the same time, the question arises as to why the government or the lawmakers might have bypassed one category that during the transition period of ten or fifteen years was the most violent of spirits in any environment in our country. In fact, it's about the so-called fast, modern capitalists. When we look at the solutions set out in Article 87, which defines what is considered to be capital under this law, it is said that real estate, equity shares, securities, investment coupons and so on, the question is, in fact, justifiably why the distinction between certain groups is raised. It is necessary to acknowledge to the law-makers that they have actually analysed very carefully where money can be obtained. Of course, the real estate area has come down. This is very apparent in Article 87, first paragraph, and then also in the transitional and final provisions of Article 144. It is known that the housing savings scheme will be released this July and that the so-called middle income class will also go in a successful way of saving with the purchase of housing. All well and well, but here the government reached out in the period before 2002, of course, in order not to accidentally catch the existing three-year period, which is subject to payment of profits. So far, so nice and good. However, it is not understandable why the Government, of course, makes an exception in determining the principal ownership shares referred to in Article 87(2). Why does it not allow the capital acquisition deadlines set out in this Article to begin with the actual acquisition of capital? In this way, the State would cover at least the part of the money that it should have received from those who may not have been able to obtain large assets on the best routes and the most harassment between citizens and citizens, especially at the expense of the fact that the State has not been able in the process of property transformation, ownership or transition, is, of course, also appropriate to tax this class of citizens who are now significantly more wealthy and who at the moment also shapes the fate of the majority of citizens and citizens. For this purpose, however, I believe that it is urgent to answer the question of what the deletion of the second paragraph of Article 144 means and how it will be covered and when income from the underlying equity will also be included as capital. We must be aware of the fact that 60 million equity shares or capital held by an individual is a large proportion and cannot be overlooked by the State. There can be no double criteria and criteria here either. I believe that the answer to this question is also one of the very important answers to the question whether this law will be fairer or not. The second question that I would touch on is, of course, a question that we will not be able to solve today. This is a question that many representatives of the parliamentary groups, particularly the new coalition, have paid very much attention to, calls for the gradual introduction of agricultural subsidies. But here I do not think everything has been done. Why not? Indeed, at the last meeting here, the government has made it clear that a new law on the determination of cadastral income has already been prepared, of course, this law has not yet been confirmed by the government, only in the government procedure. And also on the programme of the work of this National Assembly, it is not to be observed either for the May session or for the June session. It is said that they hold those findings that it is such an important area and, above all, the problematic area of the regulation of the new catastrian income system, a very complex area which will not be resolved in such a short time. And that's where the second question comes in. In addition to gradually introducing subsidies into agricultural income payments, we will not avoid the duality of payments, even if this is 25% for 2005. Today, I will not tire this assembly again, although it would probably make sense, despite all the developments in income positions, agricultural income in the last 10 years and how, given the decline in this income, despite all of last year's, except last year's, because of the natural disaster, the drought has been reduced by cadastral income, but in all the other 10 years the cadastral income has increased by more than 100%. Despite the fact that, of course, the income situation has fallen significantly. It is said that something is very wrong with the methodology for determining cadastral income, but it is even more wrong to include subsidies in this inadequate methodology. And I reiterate that, in fact, such an approach is not good enough to give a transitional period until 2007. Why until 2007? I said this the previous time, I stress once again, by 2007 there will also be a new reform of agricultural policy, Slovenia has not yet decided which model it will decide, and, of course, entry into the EU itself will only indicate what income trends or fluctuations in agriculture will lead to EU accession. Of course, the articles here are closed, there's nothing to tell. Despite all of this, I expect that there will be so much wisdom in any government that there will be a new law on the determination of cadastral income, which will actually be based on the determination of real income, that, of course, even if the income situation deteriorates, the cadastral income will also fall. In this case, of course, the inclusion of subsidies, according to my assessment and also the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party, would be appropriate. Otherwise, as we do today, we consider this to be a great stranger. So much for that question. Once again, it would be most reasonable that, of course, the Income Act should be rectified as soon as possible in the early part of the coming year, but of course first to harmonise the Cadastrian Income Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Income Act, which is before us, has been given great attention here in the National Assembly, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the Ministry of Finance has given him quite a bit of time and has been dealt with properly. There are good solutions in the proposal, as well as less good ones. If I move to a good one, these are: decommissioning the income of the debtors with lower incomes, increasing relief for families with multiple children, relief for cultural and sports people, and additional relief for agriculture. Overall, the bill is better than it was before. I personally, as well as many disabled workers, however, do not consider in the law the proposal to exempt disabled workers in the law from payment of income from the disability allowance, as is the case with all other disabled persons. The Group of Members tabled an amendment which the Committee on Finance approved or adopted and was then included in another reading. After the coalition, the United List, LDS and DeSUS tabled an amendment to this proposal and it fell out again. In discussions with the Ministry, we have come up with some possible solutions, and the Ministry's professional services have also indicated the possibility of resolution in another law, namely the Disability Pension Insurance Act. I am personally sure that this would be better, but this problem has been a long one since 1995 and has not been resolved properly. That is why I am obliged to draw attention to this problem that needs to be addressed. And since it's not in the Disability and Retirement Insurance Act, I'm sure it would be right to be included in this law. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. I warn and appeal to members of Parliament, parliamentarians and parliamentarians that it would be reasonable to deal with the problem of disabled persons as soon as possible and that this problem should be adequately addressed in the Disability Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This law is quite a piece of cake, and it has been taken up with express, expressly proposed, will be completed expressly, and I must point out that some countries that are much more experienced in these matters take time for an in-depth professional and deep debate, not only in Parliament, but also outside the professional circles - we do not see this here and, of course, it is a shame, a great deal of damage. Of course, some changes have been made on the basis of amendments in the right direction, but there are still many things in this law that our society and our citizens would really need. One thing I'm interested in right from the start is asking, we have six categories of income here; we have six categories of employment, we have work, we have work, we have work from work, we have property, we have capital, we have other income. I don't know, maybe this is a practice in some countries, but those countries that are highly developed do not have such categories, and I was just wondering why we had to go into this. However, I would like to mention some interesting things in the whole matter, so this law or bill covers finished areas or finished categories of citizens. In fact, it is clear that this law will continue to favour capitalists or hyper-capitalists, and I will not say that they are all, but some are ready for the same former or Barons, these "rrabbar barons" that have been known in the past centuries. We were probably too poor to have them or at least a lot of them, but now we have quite a few. And I am surprised that the Slovenian government or the Minister of Finance did not follow good examples from the European Union, where such privileges are usually not. Look, man thought that something was going on here and that maybe by having after some time a capitalist or anything, sir with money, would come very cheap through and that it was worth selling some things after that time and maybe even in that property there was something that should be taxed, because it was probably not, probably, fairly obtained, left God knows where abroad, etc. It seems strange to me when we look at the needs of new taxes so that we don’t think about it a little bit, and we ask: “Yes, where did this money come from? And every smart country should do this no matter how powerful or how powerful ours are, if we call them capitalists and what influence they have on our country, even though sometimes I wonder, I don't know who the tail is here and who the head is. The other thing that surprises me is this. The Minister of Finance has many employees, many of whom are top-notch experts. It has to be admitted. But why are all these talents not turned to the benefit of our citizens and prepared such an income law that will be more friendly to our citizens and that will find sources of income where they are most easily obtained? Someone has already mentioned things, such as public use etc., and if a person went through the budget again, you could see where more revenue could be obtained. Of course, the government has not actually done anything radical to improve the tax treatment. As far as I know, there's a lot of good officials out there, etc., but there's something out there that doesn't add up. Sometimes we had the opportunity to get reports on how to train, improve and so forth the electronic technology system there and get on our feet - but I don't know if it ever got up or not, I hope we don't have a Sigma case there. Well, finally, there's one more thing I'd like to point out, and I hope we can get to that sooner or later. In this proposal, the state expresses its centralism, which we all know. Look, the state wants to decide everything. And here too, for example, when it comes to various donations to cultural, scientific, religious, charitable organisations, it is very cheap and allows citizens a very small share. And the state then, by its own parts, those civil societies that are already in their pocket anyway. This, of course, is no longer civil society, and it seems to me that, even in the case of taxes, even in the case of income, we should consider this, because other countries around the world have done so and because there are fewer and fewer donors, we should support them so much more and thus give our society cultural and other values, which the country will not support and does not support. So much for a comment. I will personally wait for what will come out of this discussion to see whether it is for this law to vote or not. But right now, I'm not particularly excited to vote for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Thank you. Mag. Janez Kramberger, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Anton Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, presidents, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us an extremely important law in the third reading, which practically covers all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The collection and distribution of taxes is, in fact, the fundamental task of each country and the way in which taxes are collected and how taxes are distributed or made out of it, of course, separates successful countries from less successful ones. This is why it is very difficult to reconcile the need for higher revenues for the state and municipal budgets, on the one hand, when we discuss development programmes, on budgets, on the other hand, by those who would then want to have as much relief as possible, to see the trend towards as much revenue as possible in the budget and the maximum amount for investments, or for the other needs of the State and the municipalities, on the other hand, the desire and the need to relieve the population. I am glad that this law has made a significant effort to relieve the very low-income segment of the population. Perhaps today, however, it was not enough to say that the average Slovenian family, where both of them were employed, with two children, practically obtained more than 18% of the additional benefits with this law. The overall relief increased from 11% to 17.2%), and if both are employed, this was twice, with the exception of which, of course, the benefit for children also increased. And from this I am very pleased that, in fact, this law is now significantly better and more favourable in the third reading for the lowest income segment of the population than it was at the moment it was introduced, and of course I will gladly support it. I must say that in some countries, which are also for us, tax reforms are being done by changing reliefs by half or one or two percent, which is actually rational. With this percentage, as we have here reduced the taxation of the population with the lowest income, and if I say so in the area from which I come, of course we have taken a big step forward and therefore I think the law is very good and I will support it, as I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would only remind you that after the time schedule of today's work is scheduled at 1300 hours' rest. That's why we're going to give the word "magic" now. Janez Petty Officer, after this discussion, we will see, according to the time, how we proceed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that I will be finished 13 hours ago, because, of course, such a law would take a lot more time, but given the government's response and the solutions it offers and, of course, the peers of the ruling coalition respond very consistently to this, so in my opinion the justification is a broader loss of words. Of course, some solutions that measure weaker layers or weaker categories need to be touched. We can generally say that you have summarized good proposals for the benefit of weaker categories. Consider some: affected adults, previous reliefs 50% of the average wage, this was exempt from taxation, is now released. It is now determined or granted the same relief for these children as for maintenance members at the level of this base. This certainly is not good for our citizens who are severely affected and who require significantly more involvement of those close to them who can do anything to help them in this life. As you know, this life has become extremely expensive and also difficult in a time-consuming sense, with job obligations increasing, and so these parents must engage others to help them. Earlier it was 50% of the average earnings in Slovenia, now this is exempt. Now it's only for kids until they're 18, and before that, it was for everyone. Because you're nodding your heads, but look inside. Earlier this was for all, including for children above or for adults - under the Social Protection Act, physically and mentally affected persons also over 18 years of age. Because if you look at what their way of life is, it's identical to 18 years old. Except they're probably getting something. But this relief applies to those who support these people, not to children. Then agricultural subsidies - the same. So there'll be taxation. Then the taxation of disabled workers. Here we could show more understanding and more knowledge of what is considered in the context of disability benefits as compensation for increased costs of life and what is what pay means. That's what Mr. Kavtičnik explained. Although he is of the ruling coalition, he cannot say that the LDS will not vote because the LDS voted well, but he has offered to do so in another law. But you know, if he's in another marriage somewhere, forget about it. This year's the election. That's not gonna happen. We are now talking about this law, and what can be resolved in this law. What can be arranged for categories that are from the margins of this company. In fact, you have a lot more understanding for those who have a lot under their thumb. This is Dr. Bajuk's friend telling you what's going on. What is going on with Slovenian society, how it is spreading, and you are coming up with solutions that will further dispel this Slovenian society. But not in the way of engaging the right one, or investing in knowledge, work, but some other earnings, or in the holed legislation that is tuna, we can say that you are sometimes deliberately accepting these persons so that they can gain extra income. So then we have a collection of all these birds, the tycoons in some boxes, where they're putting pressure on you. That is why we have also tabled some additional amendments in the Group of Members to correct these bad solutions. And, of course, I now appeal to the fact that in the end, when we deal with the amendments, there will be a pro-vote vote to support them as well. Other solutions, such as relief for disabled companies in the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons, went in this direction. You know, in this concept, in this, there are currently unemployed people, I think 23 thousand people with disabilities, because the government won't let them out because they could blush. She came up with another backup file where she put these deleted ones in order not to corrupt the statistics and this success story. But that doesn't help. These data should be added together and aggregated, and finally we find that unemployment in Slovenia is growing. And according to such solutions, it will continue to grow. And in view of such income solutions, these persons may find themselves even more at the edge of society, because they will not have access to employment and because they will not have at least these minimum benefits in order to cover the high cost of living caused by severe disability, this is what this is all about. Do they have very high cost of living with medical devices, with costs for medicines and others. Therefore, it makes sense for this amendment to be taken into account and enforced with regard to disabled workers in income. To this: You have also released or immediately touched cultural people to reduce their standard spending from 40 to 25%. They are independent cultural workers, this could be true for those who thus live with their own work and are practically also at the brink. You don't have any attention for that either. And a colleague told me before me about some that for these categories of goods this law is adopted for their benefit. When you take a good look at this, you see it's not true. Unfortunately, the train took the culturers away, took the train away, because there is no way to make any more amendments, or the question is, would you show any understanding for it? I'm stopping here. There's something more to be said about the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And in this part of the debate, I interrupt the agenda. Then you'll be fine. We'll move on. And we'll resume the session in 30 minutes, at 1:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, which we interrupted due to a break. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. I give my word to Rudolph Petan. [[He doesn't want to.]] Branko Kelemina - he's not here. Joz Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to say that the text we are currently considering is much better than the one put forward by the government, because with the amendments adopted, many things have been substantially corrected. Nevertheless, we do not think that the solutions provided for in the law are sufficient. The first of the things that should be kept at least, if not corrected, is an individual relief, which has been reduced from 3% to 2% by the proposal of the government or by the acceptance and approval of the government coalition. Here I believe that it is necessary to leave the possibility for individual taxpayers to use these funds to invest in various forms that are admissible. Above all, this tax relief is for predictability, it is intentionalness and also rationality of the investments made by individuals under this heading. In short, in my presentation of the views of the Group of Members, I mentioned earlier that it would be useful even to consider raising this tax relief, in particular with a view to stimulating investment in housing, investment in education and other matters. Much of what would not have been lost through this part as a fallout then comes back through VAT or through better knowledge, better efficiency. The second issue, which I did not previously address in the position of the Group of Members, is in particular the government's attitude towards wage burdens or wage taxes. Here it must be said that Slovenia is far above the level of comparable developed European countries and we have labour taxes about 30% to 50% higher than in other countries. This means that the net salary in Slovenia is significantly lower, which means that the government is very radical, severely interfering mainly with personal and family budgets, in personal and family standards, thus continuing to take the money that citizens would otherwise spend, say, either for investments, for investments, and this money is already being transferred to the state treasury without being fertilized in this transition. In short, residents are not allowed to invest or invest and then to further elevate this money, to return to the state budget through increased VAT rates. Low wages or higher tax contributions also inhibit conditions or destroy, reduce the conditions for family development, as the increased tax reliefs that we have now adopted or that are in this law do not compensate for the bad start, and as a result, poor prospects have also been made. The special chapter concerns the area of so-called turbo capitalism. This is said to be the property that occurred in the transition period that we experienced after 1991 and where this public property concentrated in a relatively small number of transition rich people. In fact, it is necessary to know that these transitive rich people are likely to contribute less than the medium layer to this state treasury. Because all of this basic consumption is provided in Slovenia by all categories of the population. If I say so at home, we all buy bread and milk in this country, but, while a certain layer of the population is essential to each other when this basic food item cannot be provided, all these turbo capitalists are carrying out all this excess consumption more or less outside the country's borders. In short, if I simplify, they dress in Milan, they have ships in Croatia, they have money in the Caymans, they enjoy Seychelles, etc. In short, this transit money and the transit funds that have been collected from them are being spent and deposited elsewhere, but not at home. And if the transition has already given them such a terrible impact, as can be seen from the fact that they do not care what happens to this country, how the country will lead and who will lead it, then it would be appropriate for them to pay all their capital or at least most of their capital as their own debt, as their contribution to that country through the corresponding tax rates of capital gains. However, some things need to be changed for this step, and those that are most defended by the government. It would also be good for citizens or taxpayers to be evenly burdened. However, it looks very good that the State has increased tax relief in the lowest income or tax grade, but it should also be borne in mind that the number of taxpayers in this category has also decreased, so that both figures are essentially to be stated. I think it would be right that, as is the case with the last income class, where the tax burden is 50%, even for these transitional capital gains there would be some corresponding payment and this transitional elite would have to pay its contribution to the State in some way. Especially since we know that there has been a number of questions left in the prosecutions, that a number of things have been obsolete in the courts, and that, above all, a number of things have been forgiven because of the inefficiency of the courts. In fact, no injury has been found from this transition period. In short, something must be done for this step. I don't think it's right that these transition rich people, who have such a terrible impact on this country's business and operation, are more or less permanent guests of the yellow press, that I'm always there sponsoring something and, in effect, there's absolutely nothing to contribute to the country. Another category of residents should be treated separately. These are the people most of whom are not employed anywhere. But these are people who are also eligible for the environment in which they live, a terrible luxury with superstandard solutions. Some are even unjustifiably getting their own, I would say, a comfortable life is being upgraded by social ratings, and in fact they are affording themselves a standard, as Members are probably, or some other high-ranking government officials with high wages cannot. And these people are completely left to themselves, or tax laws don't concern them at all. While there are not many people like them, there are few in every environment. And in fact, it's a mockery of the whole society. In short, I believe that some more concrete steps should be taken in this area of tax legislation, particularly in those areas where extremely large, enormous funds have been raised, and 400 billion transitional capital is being referred to. And probably, not only a small part of it, but an important part of it could go into an account, into the funds of this country and be used to relieve the rest of the population, especially the wages, the work and probably also to cover the tax gap. However, this could also allow certain reliefs to be given to companies investing in development into new jobs. For as we have heard before, many things will be saved and compensated primarily at the expense of those who have so far benefited from investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you. Does Anton Partlich want a word? He doesn't want to because he's on the phone. Anton Partlych, a word? Does Joseph Skull want a word? Anton Anderlich has the floor. He doesn't want to. We have thus concluded the debate on the draft law in its entirety by Members and Members. And we are moving on to debate and decision-making on articles and amendments tabled. We will be guided by the review of the Amendments Review, because there is also an amendment to Article 20, which you do not already have on the bench, we will wait five minutes and then we can discuss it normally. [[...]] You don't have a desk check yet, and you don't have that amendment. The amendment is submitted to Article 20. You do not have it on the bench. And since you don't have a checkup on your bench yet, I'll be adjourned in five minutes. However, the amendment is tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in due time, and I have to take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Colleagues and colleagues! Please calm down. We are moving on to the consideration of articles and amendments to the article of the law. We will conduct it on the basis of a review of the amendments you have just received on the bench, of 20.4. It was tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 20 and the amendment. And we're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? See if your voting devices work. I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 20 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. We didn't make it for the first time. There's enough of us in the hall. You can see on the screen who didn't vote. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. This is the second time we have voted on the amendment to the 20th Article of the New Slovenia Group. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 11 votes against 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I turn to Article 86 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 86. Anybody want a word? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Here is the case that I spoke about in my presentation on behalf of the Group of Members. It's a concept of what will be considered capital. We cannot really believe that the government insists on its second paragraph without explaining what it is. We believe that it is much clearer to include what is necessary in the second paragraph, securities and shares in companies, cooperatives and other forms of organisations, because it is a matter of defining what capital is. And how, with how easily we boast, the government boasts that it will forgive something, the income to the lowest levels of living costs, while at the same time without any explanation, it says that if the capital gains were below 60 million in an enterprise that has more than 200 million capital, then no tax is paid. But I ask myself, what is the difference between a worker who deserves maybe an average salary and will, in any case, pay his income, because he has some income that is taxed, with a gentleman who will have a capital gain based on a 59 million share in a company that has 190 million capital. Why isn't this gentleman? What makes you think that makes sense? That's all I want to know is what's hiding behind this thing, because it doesn't make any sense, and it actually turns to nothing all the things you're talking about, how you're advocating for the lower layers, but at the same time, when you're proposing such a thing that doesn't have a tail or a head, it doesn't make any sense. So we hope that you will accept our amendment to Article 86. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 86. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 12 votes against 36. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 101, where the Slovenian People's Party's Group has tabled an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 101 to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 12 votes against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I am putting two amendments to Article 108 in the debate and decision; both have been tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. First, I am putting to the vote an amendment under the number 1 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 13 votes against 38. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I am putting to the vote the amendment under point 2 of the same parliamentary group. Voice explanation, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u78	When there has been so much talk about how the weaker categories change or are conveniently resolved by this law. There is an opportunity for at least a little repair of what has happened, namely this new law, to treat adults with mental and physical disabilities more arbitrarily. According to the provisions of the previous law, they had a 50% relief of the average wage; therefore, this was exempt from taxation. We propose that this base be increased by 50%, which will not yet be achieved by those levels. This solution is very good in our thinking and will be at least one small step towards those who have higher costs of life, are difficult to hurt and have parents or their caregivers do much work and care for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Anybody else want some? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. So we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under item 2 on page 2 of the amendment review. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 13 votes against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I am moving on to Article 112, which is accompanied by two amendments from the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out that our second amendment, which is the second part of this amendment under Article 112, contains the abolition of this government proposal in order to reduce the relief from 3% to 2. We think it makes absolutely no sense. So far, it's been groundless. And that it introduces one system in which it actually destroys everything we have so far, not only what we have had, but also what is proposed. Only 2% of the base makes no sense, so we're going to stand up for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u82	There were so many speeches about the favor of the ruling coalition to humanitarian and charitable organizations. By reducing these benefits from 3 to 2, the restrictions, which are not included, which is exempt from taxation, are just the opposite step. You are officially speaking about how this civil society should develop, charity, and, on the other hand, you are doing the opposite with laws. In other countries, these levels are of great importance to humanitarian organisations, especially where they assess and give to civil society. In our country, we should do so much more because the size of the state sector is much larger than in other comparable countries. Especially because NGOs are largely paid from the budget. The one who gives money is the master. And that's why you want to maintain this status. So you can command civil organisations. And now for the elections you'll come up with, that's what you're thinking, but this is the wrong view, this is the wrong solution. Therefore, it is necessary to mitigate this at least a little. In fact, we should put an amendment at least 5%, not from 2 to 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Since no one wants a word anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on Article 112 or two amendments to Article 112. Under point 1 on page 2 of the amendment is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which I am putting to the decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 11 votes against 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I'm putting an amendment under point 2 on page 3 of the review of the amendments to the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. That is why I am moving on to the amendment to Article 144 of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? Dr. Bajuk, 144, if I said it wrong, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I don't want my colleagues to be wrong about the big coalition. In fact, there is a small error here, the number is, the time-limits for the acquisition of capital referred to in Article 86(2) - so you can support it, it is 86th and not 87th - are starting to count from the day of the actual acquisition of capital. We believe that this is very important and necessary for this period to actually be clearly highlighted and we hope that you will certainly support it with this correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 144. We'll decide on the amendment, please. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 15 votes against 34. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment didn't get any support. The last amendment to Article 150 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party to delete the article. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and put the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 150 to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] This amendment didn't get any support either. I note that no amendments have been adopted in the third reading, so I ask the government or the legislative and legal service whether the law is harmonised or not. Secretary of State Milojka Kolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Following the adoption of the law in the third reading, it was found that there had been a disagreement between the two parties, and the Government therefore proposes a harmonisation amendment in accordance with Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure to Article 98, which reads as follows: Article 98, paragraph 3, is deleted. Other points shall be renumbered accordingly. This amendment is necessary because in Article 20 of the draft law, life-form pensions have been released according to specific rules. For this reason, this harmonisation amendment should also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you very much. It also explains that on 13.4. this harmonisation amendment was received, as the government forwarded it together with the consideration of the draft law in the third reading. Anyone want a word on the harmonisation amendment? Excuse me, excuse me. The Secretary of State explained that the Government had tabled a harmonisation amendment to Article 98 to delete point 5 of Article 98 in the third paragraph and that others were renumbered as normal sequences. Or you need to get the amendment. [[...]] Yes, it was already 13.4. We're dealing with him now, Dr. Bayuk, because he's coordinating. You probably got it too early and missed it. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. John Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I understood the performance of the Secretary of State that the non-compliance had taken place on the basis of the amendments adopted in the second reading, but not on the third, because today we had failed any amendments, and since the government had expected the item to be concluded at the previous meeting, it had already proposed this amendment, not at this meeting. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u89	At the end of the second hearing, the Government submitted a proposal for a third reading and also found that this mismatch had occurred in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President! Of course, this procedure is wrong. If we have 10, 15 amendments in the third reading, of course, we have to wait for any new adoptions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u91	I accept that fact, yes. The government's mistake, but now we have to undo this mistake. But there's no change. Can we close the debate? We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. Is there any other explanation necessary? No, we're going to the vote. We vote on the harmonisation amendment. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment to harmonise the law has been adopted. And now we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. Voice explanation, Tone Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u92	I will support the law, although of course there were some comments here, maybe I didn't understand everything either. I even supported some of them, but not against the people who had the amendments, they weren't accepted. In a way, I have noticed that for the first time, one discussion was possible and one minor distinction was to say that cultural creators did not suffer much from any law that was passed by the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, it was acceptable, with one discussion, that all the honoraries were copyrighted, that what is spoken today is written and persecuted, but that some writer may have written a novel for eight years, in order to simply confess, not to market it. And since you've had some hearing about it, I'm kind of on behalf of the culturers for, I'd say, this first step of understanding taxation, thank you and I'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Thank you very much. If there is any further confusion about this harmonisation amendment, it is entirely correct, in substance, only that we should now submit it after the third reading. Please, let's accept this. Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice. Don't you? Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u94	I will not support this marriage for a number of reasons. None of our amendments were adopted in the last reading. I have already said that in one part it is also directed at independent cultures, then you did not support article 20, which means the realization of the uncertainty and the lack of regulation that Minister Keber warned you about, for weak layers, for pensioners, for those who cannot pay extra insurance. Article 20, you explain how you support the reform and then it's an amendment and beat it. You haven't made a statement about the capital, how it is, you don't care. Not even to increase this base for maintenance members. You did not support an example of how to deal with people who are seriously affected in Slovenia. Humanitarian and charitable organisations, in order to provide a basis for the development of non-governmental organisations, even reduce, are already flawed, are disabled or are you reducing, and you also reject solutions to more appropriate regulation on housing. In view of this, we cannot support such a law, nor are citizens happy with such a law, except for some of the chosen ones. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Ivan Kebrich has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I will support this marriage with a sad heart. Why? Something has just moved, capital will be strained, although not as much as it would have been desirable as other European countries do, but also some out-of-European countries. It is important that we are certain things with regard to the dependence of these layers, which are barely living and will be satisfied and I do not even believe that everyone will be able to use a 2% relief. 3% or more, but with open hands they would support and support those who have such incomes, so that each percentage of relief means much to them. Despite what I have said, once again, I will support this law, in which I expect our successors to find that it is not the best thing to be much better if they patiently speak with arguments about certain reliefs that would be justified. For families with multiple members, we've only done something, and I think we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, then Dr. Bayuk, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, I will support the law because it is not true that this is a law that benefits the elect. The new Income Law will significantly reduce the tax burden of natural persons in Slovenia, most for those with incomes of up to half the average wage, whose tax burden will be reduced on average by more than 40%. And for those with income between half and one average salary, which will be reduced by an average of 19%. These are not the chosen ones, they are the inhabitants and inhabitants of our country, and this is also the purpose of this law. Tax reliefs have also been put in place which are such as to concern either economically or socially disadvantaged taxable persons. These are farmers, families with many children and some specific and highly valued intellectual professions and individuals with excellent achievements, professional journalists, top athletes and so on. And there are also some tax reliefs that we want to promote, for example, housing and life savings in our country. So all the claims that this is a law that is intended for the electorate are not true. With this law we want to achieve what I have said, and this is in favour of the Slovenes and the Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not a writer, so I'm just gonna say something again. Hamlet once said words, words, words, words, and words, but the Romans would say "really non willows", should look at actions, facts, not words. [[...]] Nobody said there wouldn't be any use here. However, we have argued since the first day and today again that this is not a tax reform, but some tax corrections, some very good. But that tax reform that Mr. Prime Minister praised in the Chamber of Commerce and preached it all over Slovenia, and it is not yet. However, that tax reform will be introduced by the opposition when it has sufficient confidence that these irregularities, which remain in our tax system today, will be eliminated and that we will shift the burden of the tax system to a fair and much more forward-looking way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? Mag. Gracner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I will support this law, namely, the Income Act is one of the laws in this whole package of so-called tax reform. We need to know that at the previous meeting, we have already changed one such tax, namely, the corporate income tax, the tax on natural persons or income is another law. That's two of the laws. And, of course, I believe that in the next term we will change those laws that separate us from the whole tax reform. However, I must say that this income law is certainly a law that regulates and improves the status of natural persons, that is, those natural persons that some prefer to call more burdensome persons with lower incomes. As we have already heard before, it improves the status of both farmers and families with multiple members, then also culturers, athletes and as wide a body as possible of your comments has been included in these amendments. So this marriage must be of quality, so I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Thank you. Even the Miran Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The Income Act concerns all citizens and citizens. It concerns everyone, no matter what his specific situation is, whether he is employed, whether he is a pensioner, whether he is a farmer, or whether he has a larger or smaller family. In this way, it is very difficult in the Income Act to find a solution that would be acceptable to every single individual. It may be a matter of group view and being critical of it. However, if we are objective, it must be said that this Income Act has also made every effort to find solutions that would be fair and acceptable to any taxpayer. It has reached the fundamental objective of possible relief with the tax obligations of the lowest groups and categories of our citizens and citizens; this is probably what we wanted. It has maintained the possibility of exempting and investing citizens and citizens from tax liabilities in part of their income. At the same time, it has foreseen the necessary scope of taxes, which will ensure that the other objectives of this country, which are fuelled by taxes, is also a pension, that is health care, that is also a social charge, and that the issue of the unemployed can be regulated in an appropriate manner. And that is all that needs to be taken into account in the country and through this aspect we can also assess the income law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Now I am putting the Income Act to a full vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members of Parliament present, with 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12]] I find that the Income Act has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude the 28th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from the Member States. Thank you all for your cooperation and a nice break until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Ministers and gentlemen of the ministers, everyone else present, a nice greeting! Please take your seats. We'll be there at 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. Some ministers and ministers are excused. I see your hand, mag. A little thing, and I'll give you my word. I think it's a procedural question, mag. A little something? Yeah. You'll get your word as soon as I inform the assembly of some facts. First of all, some ministers will not cooperate because of other obligations, at least not all the time. This will not be because of the journey to the United States by Dr Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance. There will be no Dr. Slavko Gabra, Minister of Education. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is in a hurry at the foreign policy event, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, which will therefore be missing all the time today. Dr. Mark Pavliha, the new Minister of Transport, won't be able to cooperate after 4:00 and 30 minutes. We are dealing with questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Let me also say before I give the floor to a procedural question or proposal to my colleague Drobnič that you have been given an overview of those questions and initiatives on the bench that have been put in place after the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure and which have not yet been answered by the Government within this time limit. I'm asking the government to do this. Now the word for a procedural question or proposal is yours, mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-welcome members of the government! The proposal, my group or its members, to meet today on this agenda item, is to include questions and answers to all questions raised by Members, regardless of whether the ministers have been resolved. The argument is why. Because the Prime Minister has assured the ministers that they will perform full, full-time, as soon as they are appointed and able to carry out these operations. And the next reason is that questions are posed in advance, but oral questions are posed in advance, so that we can answer them in our opinion. And just yesterday, the new ministers, as the people and the Members of Parliament have seen, have responded, and then to this day.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We discussed this on Friday at the college. I think it was my colleague Tsukati, who said it was reasonable to expect that the new ministers would probably not be able to answer the questions concerning their work the next day. We agreed on that in the majority. Nevertheless, ministers and ministers who were elected yesterday are here. I think it would be possible to accept this interpretation that the day after they were sworn in, they are practically unable to answer questions about their work. But your proposal is, mag. Little fella, over here. The questions were raised by former ministers and I would like to hear the views of other parliamentary groups to see how they would finally decide, and not least the Prime Minister or the Minister of Government, what he thinks about this issue. I only explained that a different decision had been made at the college. I explained, the questions were posed to ministers who are no longer ministers. The questions are questions for ministers who perform their duties. They're doing this now for less than 14 hours, and I'd like to hear some other fellow Members of Parliament, and then I'll decide how I'm going to do it. Please, colleague Kelemina, then colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u110	There's no debate. Just to figure out how we're gonna run the session, and then we're gonna run the session. Please, colleague Kelemina, briefly, your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable all together! I personally estimate that there is a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking who and why and with what right someone did it. Members must be informed of what you have agreed. If I had been informed that I had asked my question in due time, someone could not answer, I would have asked someone else a question. I'm in violation of the right to normal work. And I wonder, given what Mr Rop said here yesterday, that his ministers will actually start working today with a full pair, why did they come to the Parliament meeting if they are not going to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Let them prepare for their new duties, not that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I gave you my word, and someone could have objected that I shouldn't have given it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u115	No! No! I merely ask you, Mr President, to determine who and why and by what right he has taken this responsibility to violate the Rules of Procedure and that we Members are not informed of what rights we are actually being followed by a change of government. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u116	I would also like to give my colleague Sugary a word because I appointed him when I referred to some decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Well, I said the next day they might be in a bit of an awkward situation. However, I also said that questions were being asked a week earlier - questions had already come last week - and that most of the answers were being prepared in ministries where regular services, secretaries and the like were being prepared. So I didn't see any reason at the time for the questions not to be asked so that the new ministers wouldn't answer them either. But if one of the ministers can't answer, let him say he can't answer and he'll answer later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u118	My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Mr President, I ask you not to turn this House into a farce. Above all, if necessary, look at the Magnography of Friday's College and you will undisputedly find that there have been some debates on the questions sent. For the first time, whether the purpose of the extraordinary meeting is to address parliamentary issues or not. Secondly, the question of whether it can be expected of ministers and ministers if they are appointed to answer questions about the Ministry's work immediately the next day on certain specific issues relating to certain important issues in Slovenia. And it was agreed, with Mr Tsukati's loud attachment, that it would be understood that there would be no questions raised at this first meeting of new ministers and ministers. Of course, I have no doubt that, from yesterday to today or from Friday to today, the situation has changed and that it was possible to understand from their statements at the college meeting that they would be able to answer questions from ministers who have resigned, but are currently doing their job until the election of new ones. I don't know what they were thinking. But they certainly couldn't expect what they really wanted to know if they were interested in getting answers to questions, but if the interest was just to stage a show and make people laugh and talk, whether they could or could not answer and put the ministers and the minister in a position where one way or another it was known that it would be irresponsible of anyone to answer about things he couldn't learn, and it is not a proper parliamentary practice to deal with in this way. And I propose, Mr President, that, regardless of the presence of ministers and ministers, whatever these questions may be asked and answered, it will benefit all of them, including them, for future work in the government and in the national assembly. That is why, of course, this should not be misused by their presence in order to ask questions today. However, if you decide otherwise, and that Friday's agreement in college will not apply, and it will be against what is said in the normal jargon of sound logic to swear at night at 1:00, 2 p.m., and put them back on the chair in the afternoon of 3 p.m. and question them. Then, of course, I expect ministers and ministers to receive such a question if they answer it in writing in the next time they have every opportunity to do so. Otherwise, I'm surprised again at, no, otherwise, I'm not surprised again that one is speaking on Friday and the other is doing today. However, I suggest that you write a record and a summary of the conclusions of each college for the next course and after each college, so that it will be indisputably clear what we have agreed on there, without interpreting it as it pleases anyone, even if it is now in its implementation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Maybe he was exaggerating about something. [[...]] And I'm pretty sure you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u122	Look. It's my responsibility to open the debate at all. I'm not sorry. It's only right that some things are explained. As President, I will also decide what we will do today. I will also explain, justify my decision. I'd give my colleague a chance to say a word, and then I'll tell you how we're gonna run this agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Your Honors are here! Yesterday, the Prime Minister said twice, or twice, that the government is not in crisis and, of course, that the new ministers, if elected, will continue in line with the work of past ministers. If we achieve today, or if you decide today that ministers do not have to answer, this will mean that we have five ministries in crisis. This means, of course, one-third of the government of the Republic of Slovenia is in crisis. The second thing I'd like to point out. All ministers, both in their speeches and during yesterday's debate in the National Assembly, advocated that they knew the work of their own department or ministry so far. It was from this title that the National Assembly gave them confidence and thus their election. And according to my assessment, or according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, we also share the view that, insofar as the Minister is specific or the Minister cannot answer a specific question, let him say it and answer it in writing in 14 days and that it is nothing like that. In short, we propose to continue the established practice in this national assembly, not to deepen the crisis which, according to our assessment, is precisely produced by the Liberal Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Good. There's no crisis. The National Assembly is functioning normally. I wouldn't say a word. I made it possible to debate so much that we could hear different views. I'm sure something's holding. We had an attitude on Friday. Various proposals were made today. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] My friend Tuck, now I have the floor, let me finish. I think it would be right for us to act in such a way that, as you have written down, you ask questions to the Minister and the Ministers, and ultimately to the newly elected ones, and they are not obliged to answer, because they do not necessarily have a ready answer to the question that you have. And you have to respect and respect that. And I understand from your question, mag. A trifle to take this for granted. Here, however, are the newly elected ministers and the Minister, and I think that we could then resolve this issue. In this sense, I do not think that an explanation by my colleague Tsukjati is necessary either. We've solved that question. A brief explanation for the wrong statement, please, colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u125	However, I would like to correct Mr Anderlich's statement. In fact, no one or I would ever have usurped so that the college could support an eclectic violation of the rules of procedure. We cannot deprive Members of this right to ask questions. However, it has been pointed out that it is possible that one or the other or none of the new ministers will be able to respond and, in this case, like the experience of half the ministers missing, we do not get answers to half the questions because they are not here. Let the gentlemen leave their seats nicely, let them go out and no one get upset, but they are not, they will not answer, they will be at the next meeting. But changing the "ad hoc" rules of procedure and working methods, which I don't think has the right of any college president.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Good. I'll close that question. No, colleague Kelemin, I gave you a chance earlier, you explained your point of view, there will be no controversy about that. We have arranged as I said we will hold a debate. Colleagues and colleagues will ask questions in an orderly fashion. Finally, the question was also raised by the Minister and the Minister, who were appointed yesterday. If they want to answer you, they'll answer. If they do not understandably answer the questions, they will not answer them. We will now proceed in the order in which the Members' questions are raised. My colleague, Janez Janša, Prime Minister, I must remind you that this is the third time you have asked the same question. And I asked you, I think that Mr Plevelje did so on my behalf, that the question must be clearly raised and only, as far as is clear, can the Prime Minister answer such a clear question regarding the 240th Article also answer it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I must say, to this debate, so much for the supermen who have come into the government and who will be able to work normally on the first day without introduction. Clearly that's not possible. Every minister needs some time to get in. We knew that, but unfortunately, the one he proposed didn't know. And that's why we've spent these minutes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u128	It's a question of question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u129	As far as the question is concerned, Mr President, I think it is clear. However, it is not necessary to state in advance an explanation for the question, otherwise I do not see the point of having this part of the parliamentary work at all. Only those officials who in any event prepare in advance replies to the Prime Minister who is obviously not as capable as those who are now proposed for a new government can send in writing and we do not need this to be read. Before asking a question, I would like to congratulate the leader of the government coalition on the election of Mr Drag Kos as chairman of the anti-corruption commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Message question, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u131	We are confident and doubt that you will be further informed from now on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u132	the question on the agenda [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Journalists [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u134	I have to insist. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u135	Otherwise, Mr. Prime Minister, according to recent statistics, the average gross salary in Slovenia in the last three months is 263,000 tolars, the minimum wage is 111 thousand tolars, and the guaranteed salary is 52 thousand tolars. Tens of Slovenian workers receive a salary that is lower than the minimum. Over tens of thousands of Slovenian workers are not paid regularly. The lowest full-time pension in Slovenia is 80,000 tolars. 80% of all pensioners in Slovenia have a lower pension than 150 000 SIT. On the other hand, Jože Lenič, a politician of Liberal Democracy who is currently at work in Triglav Insurance, has three million tolars. Vinko Može, director of the Ljubljana Aerodrome, received 12 million SIT wages in February.The District Attorney's Office in Slovenj Gradec, known for its efficiency or inefficiency in Friday, pays a million and a half. RTV Slovenia, a public institution with a 4 billion-dollar loss that pays millions of SIT for leaders. In the public sector, hundreds of wages go to over a million tolars, and the Rector of the University of Ljubljana is only in the 100th place. I do not provide data on companies that do not operate on the market, but on companies where the government directly or directly tailors fate. Differences are incomparable to much richer and more developed countries, and I ask the Prime Minister: What will it do to regulate these differences, to establish equality before the law, and to eliminate this injustice, which also demotivating the economic sector,?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Nicely greeted! So today I get the same question for the fourth time. The question concerns equality before the law. Of course, I would ask, as far as it is possible for the President to tell the secretariat about the legislation, whether it is as clear as Mr Janša says that these issues are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They say that they do not comply with the rules of procedure, that they are in breach of the rules of procedure and that, on purpose, they do not specify the question in advance, not the question, but the statements which do not hold, which are not true and which are later denied. In the first three questions on this subject, I got different topics, mainly from different areas where different individuals were accused and different claims were cited. Later, some individuals denied this through press conferences, and I think one of them also filed a lawsuit in court. And I really don't see the point of answering without the question being raised in advance on such questions. Therefore, I ask, Mr President, that I am asked questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. And I also ask for the official opinions of the secretariat for legislation, or Janez Janša regularly violates the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. In this case, of course, he asks me about the topic that is close to the topic which when the Party of Young Slovenia announced and relates to wages, so I will count some of the data in advance because it actually duplicates a certain number of questions. Question of the Young Slovenia Party with the question of Janez Janša. We will, of course, check whether this claim made by Mr Janša, that there are hundreds, is likely to be 1,000, 2,000 employees in the public sector who have more than one million tolar wages, and that inequalities in both length and length are present. This is another of those classic deceptions with which the public wants to present what it wants to be presented in the government, in the National Assembly and in all other areas. So, if we look at the wage system in Slovenia, then it is necessary to say that in Slovenia we have had a minimum wage system regulated for some time because there was talk about the minimum wage system. And in Slovenia we have a minimum wage level comparable to that of the Member States of the European Union, those with comparable gross domestic product per capita. The international comparison shows that Slovenia has a minimum wage, I am talking about data for 2003, January, somewhere between the level of the minimum wage in Portugal and Spain, and therefore this salary is comparable to those of similar countries in the European Union. International comparisons speak of average wages that the candidate countries had an average annual salary of 6,800 euros in 2002 in Slovenia, which is, of course, included on this average, an average wage of 12,228 euros, with a salary slightly higher than 30,000 tolars in the European Union. Here was a statement concerning the guaranteed salary. The guaranteed salary is used to recalculate social transfers, not to pay the salaries themselves. When we talk about the pay system, we have two systems in Slovenia. One is one that exists in the public sector, the other is one that exists in the private sector, in which case both were deliberately mixed, both in the private sector and in the private sector. In the private sector, negotiations are currently under way on an agreement on wage policy between employers and employees, and in the framework of this negotiations, the ratios of these salaries will also be established. Both those minimum, both those average, and in particular increases in wages for 2004 and 2005. And, of course, I can say that it is also agreed how much the minimum wages will increase and the minimum wages will increase above average. Of course, I can also say something about wage differences in Slovenia, but it seems that I have run out of time, so the answer to this question, regardless of the fact that this question has not been announced in advance, has not been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I expect it to be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u138	As you have already mentioned and heard before, I have also told my colleague, Janez Janša, that he must follow Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure, the question or initiative should be brief and concise and expressed in a way that makes its content clear. As with him, as with some other colleagues, this question is always explained by the explanation of this question, whether the explanation must also be written in advance and such that it is known by the Government. He wants a supplementary question, a supplement to the question, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Mr President, I have asked a very short and clear question. Next time I will explain it, and since Mr Rob is not capable of doing so, I will also write the answer myself, so that the matter will be completed in the pre-phase. Otherwise, I ask my colleagues and colleagues, if they ever look at transfers from European Parliaments where questions are asked by the Prime Minister, in the English Parliament once a week, there is no need for announcements, no statistics are produced by any officials, and I have not asked a question today because I would like an answer in the form of some statistics that I have now heard. But the simple question: What will the government do to eliminate these differences? Mr Rop, the Prime Minister was formerly a finance minister and has been working on this. He is now the Prime Minister responsible for this. I mentioned the information published on the Ministry of the Interior's website. At the end of February, a list of more than 100 salaries over a million dollars gross in the public sector was published in the NeDel. I didn't make anything up. I just didn't get an answer. And the fact is, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in small and medium-sized enterprises, there are significantly fewer directors who are successful at proving their performance in the market that would have such wages, as in some segments of the public sector. Not to mention the salaries and fees of Slovenian top artists and culturers who are miserable. And that's all in the government domain, has ministries for it, and we ask: What is she going to do to make these differences go away?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u140	In his announcement to the Prime Minister, Mr Janša announced that he would ask him what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would do to implement the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Is there anything else you would like to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Yes, I do. First of all, it's not true that you asked a short question. You have spoken for more than three minutes, and in this matter you have raised your arguments above all. Far from asking a clear question. Another time. You said that hundreds of public servants are paid for such salaries. If we're talking about hundreds, it's a multiple hundred. So it's not true what you said because it's not 200, it's not 300, it's not 400. So he doesn't. Your argument that in other parliaments the question is just as simple as that can be held. I am just talking about how this Rules of Procedure, which this National Assembly has adopted, are very clear on how questions are raised. I kept my mouth shut when you asked the question three times in contradiction with the Rules of Procedure. You put it in conflict with the Rules of Procedure today. I have warned the President, I have warned the President of the National Assembly that this cannot go on indefinitely, this seduction. And now I just want you to ask me questions in accordance with the rules of procedure and absolutely nothing else. When we talk about non-conformity, about non-conformity of wages, then, of course, I could reply, but you probably don't want to know that wage coordination is currently under way in the public sector, and the two areas are those found to exist in wage differences and need to be properly corrected. The first area is the area of culture, the second area is education. In accordance with the agreement which can be further clarified later by the Minister of the Interior, it was agreed in advance and the relevant annexes are also signed to raise wages further in education and culture. They're lifting. What is a problem is the general framework for an agreement on public sector wage policy, which requires a relatively restrictive policy, in particular in other sectors, and that is where the negotiations are taking place. As you know, according to the law on civil servants' salaries, there will also be a specific regulation on the salaries of officials and, in accordance with this regulation, which will be sent to the National Assembly, it will also be clear how much of the officials can receive salaries. Just two days ago, I received a request or request, a recommendation from the mayors of all parliamentary groups, including the SDS, to raise their salaries further to the mayors - I think you signed this letter - especially in small municipalities. I'm not saying that this is something wrong, I'm just saying that it's one of those things that's on the table that's being discussed and, of course, many others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u142	Before I give my word for the next question, I will repeat the thing that I have already said, and apparently it has not sat down enough. The Prime Minister, ministers and ministers are obliged to answer the question that has been announced. If they do not know the content of the explanation or the supplementary question, they are not obliged to answer it. We're moving on now. Dr. Andrey Bajuk will ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! From the announcement of my question, you already know that today, in particular, on behalf of all those who are waiting for the rule of law in Slovenia to come true, and on behalf of the people of Ljubljana, is of interest to me: Under what criteria does the Government or the Liberal Democracy and the United List decide when and whether they will even implement the judgments or decisions of the Constitutional Court? I want to know: Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allowed the operation of an illegal holding company in seven public companies in Ljubljana since 1999 despite the judgments of the Constitutional Court? The constitutional dispute was sparked by the mayor of the Ljubljana municipality, Dr. Rupel, and the current government under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy. In September 1999, the Constitutional Court found that the current holding of public companies was not properly organised and registered. It has been clarified that the concept of holding in the Economic Public Services Act 1993 does not refer to holding in the company law. It also concluded that the concept of holding in the Law on Economic Public Services was not sufficiently defined. However, it explained from other provisions that it was not possible to transfer the institution's rights to a holding company operating under the company law. And since 1999, what has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done as a co-instigator of the constitutional dispute that has been resolved in its favour? Nothing. The government did not propose to supplement the Public Services Act in the sense of more precise regulation of the holding of public economic services. At the same time, in 2001, Mayor Vika Potočnik simply ignored the judgment of the Constitutional Court and, following the distribution of the property of public companies or the municipality of Ljubljana, reorganised the holding in an even more illegal manner. The division of property among the municipal municipalities was only a cover for other purposes. With the new organisation of the holding company, the city council of Ljubljana further reduced its management rights. Public companies have been illegally entered into the register as private companies. Of course, there was a SIB in such anarchy. In June 2003, the Court of Auditors requested the establishment of a legal situation, a change in the registration of seven public undertakings and their holding company. You've also overlooked this in the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Not long ago, a new director of an illegal holding company was appointed to the Constitutional Court and to the Court of Auditors for four years. At that time, at the same time, seven public service companies increased their service prices for 2004 far above the projected inflation, some by almost 10%. Fourteen days ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only foreshadowed and announced that it would ask Ljubljana City authorities to explain and explain the reasons for these high prices. And it's been quiet ever since. Prices are still valid and citizens continue to pay them because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows the illegal and imprudent operation of Holding Ljubljana. So, Mr. President: What do you think is the reason for the recent increase in prices of public utilities in Ljubljana to almost 10%? And finally: Why have you done nothing so far and why do you think Ljubljana, the only city in Slovenia, needs an illegal holding company? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Dr. Bajuk, you are also subject to the same restrictions as everyone else at the time. You've been over it for half a minute, which is inconsistent with the rules of procedure. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Therefore, in this case it is a question which does not concern the powers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, the question is how, given the holding company d.o.o., which was decided by the Constitutional Court in 1999, the government can do nothing. In this case, of course, the Constitutional Court decided and ordered the city of Ljubljana, the municipal municipality, to arrange the holding business and it did so already in 1999. So, Dr. Bayuk, I could ask you, too, why didn't you do anything in those six months when you were Prime Minister? Of course you couldn't do anything, because of course the government doesn't have jurisdiction, and now you're asking me why the government doesn't do anything in this case. I do not know what has already been done by the municipality in this case, but in this case this is certainly not the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, in this case there is no particular point and you do, I believe even that you know that I would now be responsible and take responsibility for the situation of the holding company in Ljubljana. However, as far as prices are concerned, I agree, and I have also said this publicly and stressed that this price increase was excessive and too high. And I would like to mention something else, in this case you mentioned the United List and the LDS or the President of the United List you are asking about the city holding company d.o.o., but this is certainly not the place for me to answer. Therefore, even when we are talking about decisions of the Constitutional Court, these decisions do not apply to individual parties, such as New Slovenia, SKD or SLS at the time when you were Prime Minister, but relate exclusively and only to state bodies, which of course must comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, unless you consider that state authorities are the same as individual parties - I do not think they should be and I hope they will never be in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Complementation of the question and warning of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! You obviously have a very special idea of what the government is responsible for and what it isn't. In order to respect the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Government or its competent ministries should also ensure compliance with Articles 88 to 90 of the Law on Local Self-Government. The government should also ensure that the Municipality of Ljubljana is not in unhindered breach of the Public Finance Act in its work governing the borrowing and granting of guarantees, not to mention the continuous violation of Article 76 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the local community or the state cannot invest as a real investment in infrastructure assets. So, obvious violations of the legislation for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible. Who's gonna respect it? Why does the government not care that the Court of Auditors’ request is enforced? Why does the government not care that the law on public finances is respected? Article 76, in the specific case of Parking lot d.o.o., also infringements of Articles 18 and 17 of the Public Finance Act. Why do you think that the government is not responsible under Article 88 to 90 of the Law on Local Self-Government, that it is not responsible that the Municipality of Ljubljana respects constitutional order and legislation? Mr President, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Please, Mr. President, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u149	First of all, if that's the case, then I'm asking you why you didn't do anything that six months ago when you were Prime Minister, why you didn't make that decision. Of course you know that doesn't make sense. And that's what I'd like to point out. In this question, which was not a question, but was a claim, you obviously confused everything, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Law on Public Finances, the Slovenian Constitution, the Constitutional Court's decision. In short, we can discuss the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors decision as far as such cases are concerned. We can talk about the law on public finances. Only then do I ask you nicely to ask the question so that it is clear that it relates to those matters relating to the powers of the government in relation to the implementation of, for example, the Public Finance Act. Above all, it is really strange that you ask this question and even ask me these statements twice, and even you yourself have had the opportunity to implement this decision, which you know that the government alone cannot make it happen. Moreover, the question arises whether the municipality actually applied this decision to the Constitutional Court. Some of the information I have - but it is not mine to explain it now - will be explained to you by the municipal community - but it is precisely for the purpose that this decision of the Constitutional Court has actually been implemented. So you're asking me about something that's been realized, about the jurisdiction of the city of Ljubljana, and you're transferring it to the government, and you're adding an accounting court and a law on public finances, which, of course, is extremely unusual. And I hope that the Ljubljana municipality will answer this question and tell you in what parts and in which elements this decision is actually realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Only a procedural question or proposal can I give you my word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u151	On the basis of a Rule of Procedure, which gives me the opportunity to request a debate, I want to discuss this issue and propose a public debate. Mr President, your reference to the time when I had government responsibilities is truly inappropriate. The Constitutional Court’s decision was of 19 September 1999 and was implemented three months later. So, from January 1st, 2000. It is true that it is the first responsibility on the website of the Municipality of Ljubljana to take place from June to the end of November [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u152	Procedural question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u153	We couldn't get ahold of it, obviously. [[...]] That you've been responsible for a long time, but it's true. If you're willing to take responsibility for 10 years, I'm willing to take responsibility for six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u154	Two things. First of all, Dr. Bayuk, we understand that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are proposing that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to your question. This will be discussed by the National Assembly - please, if there is no controversy in the bench - the National Assembly will decide on this tomorrow at 10 a.m. The second thing I want to say is, I don't think it's necessary, today I think it's been done several times, to raise the voice in the hall in order to put more emphasis on the arguments. I think that we hear each other well and that then the noise makes it work disrespectfully towards the institution itself and to colleagues. We're not enemies, we're bigger competitors, otherwise we're colleagues. I suggest that this is how this agenda item goes forward. The third to raise the question of the post is Master Marko Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Nice greetings to all present. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers! First of all, let me clarify the misunderstanding which Mr President opened on the first question of colleague Janša. The issue raised by my colleague Janša and the question I am asking in due time are completely different so that there are no misunderstandings. That's what I'm interested in. We've been trying to compare ourselves more and more in the last period. Once we compare ourselves with the EU 15 and once again with ten accessions, and for the third time with 25 future members of the European Union. Of course, each average is different. While the average GDP per capita is $16,869, it's only $10,693. Slovenia is, of course, better than other adherents according to this indicator and even raises this average. While the average of the European Union is 15 years away from some calculations, it is a good 30 years. However, it is possible to operate differently with different indicators. I would therefore like to clarify the following: What comparative data will the government take into account in the future and use when comparing the salaries of Slovenian workers, living standards and the quality of life of Slovenian people? The average wage and standard of living in the European Union of fifteen, i.e. today's European Union of the most developed European countries, where Slovenian wages are well below average, or the average wages and standard of living of Europe, twenty-five, which will include countries that are significantly less developed than Slovenia after 1.5.2004 and which have a relatively lower standard of living and wages than we have in Slovenia today? Because the average standard of living and the average wage in the EU will be significantly lower in 25 countries than in the European Union, as we know it today and which we join and which we have in the past not least wanted to join. Your reply, for which I thank you in advance, is particularly important in the light of the negotiations between the social partners and the position that the government will adopt and defend with regard to the wage policy agreement and present to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u156	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Thank you so much for asking. So, the question on the one hand concerns wages and on the other hand indicators, the methodology for showing the height of the Slovenian population standard. Let me say that, of course, it's not about the government or anyone using one or the other data. There are international methodologies that are used regularly in all indicators and in all comparisons, and these are used by all, and in fact they must all be used. Just at the last European Council meeting we had in Brussels, a very interesting publication was published, and I suggest you also look at it, which concerns the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. And within this is an international comparison of all the Member States of the European Union [[Fifteen]] and new accession countries, according to different indicators. In particular, this is a comparison of competitiveness, innovation, R & D expenditure, and it is very interesting to look at this data, because you can see where Slovenia is at the moment, where the benefits are, and where there are undoubtedly shortcomings. When it comes to these data that you probably ask and think about, the IPRI indicator on unemployment is usually used; when it comes to unemployment, it is very standard data. Slovenia considers that unemployment by ILO standards, which is internationally comparable, is 6.6%, in the European Union 15, not 25%, about 8%, for example, in Poland is 20%, and in the Baltic countries is significantly higher. For example, standardised indicators used by the Bureau of Statistics on poverty are used. If you look at these statistics, then you see that in the European Union there is 15% poverty rate, in Slovenia there is 12.9%. So when we look at indicators relating to social balance and cohesion, Slovenia is relatively high and relatively favourable. But when we look at the pay indicators, of course we can only make comparisons concerning absolute amounts, and I have said these absolute amounts. When we talk about minimum wage, Slovenia is higher than Portugal and slightly lower than Spain, somewhere in between, approximately corresponding to the level of gross domestic product. When we talk about average wages, you can see that in Slovenia the average wage, gross wages are, of course, about once more, about 100% higher than on average new candidates for entry, but of course lower than those who are on average in the European Union 15 there are about 30,000 euros and in Slovenia about 12,000 euros. So much for these pointers. Of course, if the question concerns the pay system itself and the system of pay arrangements, I have already talked about this in response to Janez Janša's question and, of course, you can also continue if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your cooperation. Yeah, my friend Diaci wants to ask you a few questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Thank you for your answer, but the question was not put in this direction, but with my question I wanted a clear answer in the future: With whom will Slovenia compare? Not just once the EU 15, once the EU 10 - whether it is the EU 25 or it is the EU 15, by all indicators. I know which indicators are ILO and so on, that is clear. However, because it happens to us several times, even in Parliament, when we talk, for example, about any laws that have an impact on promotion, say, prices, we always say, yes, we compare with the European Union, and this is what the EU thinks 15. But when we talk, say, about wages, it is often heard or said, our salaries are much better than the other participating countries, which will be worth joining us in the EU 25. That is what I wanted, and that was also my specific question. Thank you for your answer, but you don't have to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u160	Well, in spite of that, Mr President will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u161	No, I'll be happy to answer that. So we have to compare ourselves with each other. We need to compare ourselves with the best ones, we need to compare ourselves with those that are comparable to Slovenia in terms of productivity, gross domestic product and purchasing power. And we also need to know what is going on in those countries that are worse with lower indicators. Why? Simply because we are actually competing with all these countries. We compete with both bad companies and good ones. We are going to the common market and we want most of our companies to survive, to preserve most jobs and to create new ones in particular. We therefore need to know what is going on in the best countries, but we also need to know what is going on in those countries that are competing with us, for example, with cheap labour; there is an objective danger that part of production will be relocated to these countries. Only if you look at the tobacco factory case, then you see what happened in this case. Production from Slovenia has moved to Poland, where, of course, they have a significantly lower labour price. And it is good to know that the price of labour is lower and it is good to know that Slovenia does not want to build its development on such a cheap labour force, but completely on something else. We want to be among the best, and we all say this repeatedly, not just me, especially the President of the National Assembly, is very keen to stress this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u162	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you very much for your participation in this part 1 of the agenda. The questions of our colleagues and colleagues will now be answered by ministers and ministers, as they are written in order. We have also come to the conclusion that in the end we will ask a question if they want to, and I think they are even ready to answer, the new ministers, Minister. Colleagues Mamić, Jerovšek and Kelemina. Today, the order in which questions are asked is somewhat shorter than usual. Please, then, let this dialogue run as usual in some cultural environment. Colleague Maria Possonec will now raise a question to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! I ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Council of Bohinca: When will Slovenia's entry into the European Union give effect to the free movement of ideas, goods, people and services? I ask him: How can it be possible to close the border between the two Member States of the European Union at 2 p.m. or 4 p.m. or 7 p.m.? This is about working time and not the implementation of the Schengen Treaty, which we have not yet matured for. Border crossings of Pinke-Tornje, Martinje-Felsöszölnök, Kobilje-Nemesnép, Prossenjekovci-Magyarszombatfa will be open all day, because the costs of hiring one officer do not actually make it worthwhile to distort the content of the open border. I ask, on behalf of the inhabitants there, that the Minister do his utmost to make sure that the opening time is uninterrupted. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the celebration of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The fall between Hungary and Slovenia, which separated two worlds as an iron curtain, is certainly worth celebrating, almost like the fall of the Berlin Wall. However, it would be necessary to do so in a dignified manner, not by having the State attach its whistleblower and by requiring local authorities to pay the officer’s staff for the time when the celebration of the event will take place. As long as it takes place outside of work time. Such a way is not worthy of a dignified celebration and is worthy of our country. I ask the Minister to explain this matter to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u164	Thank you for asking me that question. Minister of the Interior, you have the floor. Although it has been announced, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, there is only one question that we have here. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Member, I thank you for this question. As regards the first part of the question, the principle of free movement of goods will literally be enforced by 1.5 when we enter the European Union. As you and the public are aware, we have not met the Schengen criteria since 1.5 this year and Slovenia is not a member of the Schengen Group of States, so police control at the borders with Austria, Italy, Croatia; Austria, Italy and Hungary remains until we become a member of the Schengen Group. We are expected to meet these conditions at the end of 2006 so that in early 2007 the police borders with these three Member States of the European Union can also fall. The entry into the European Union 1.5 alone has no impact on the opening time of border crossings. The opening time of the border crossings is agreed with each neighbouring country; there is also a special process of possible change with Hungary, currently opening time at the international 24 hours border crossings, at interstates, for example at the Martinje border crossing, every day from 6-22 hours, and Prosjenjakovci and Kobilji from 8-22 hours, or from 8-16v winter time and 7-19 summer time. Of course, it is known that, through the external ministries, there is a procedure for possible change in these opening times, and that the Ministry of the Interior has no influence, but of course it is prepared to implement any inter-State agreement of this kind. Of course, with the additional involvement of the police, which follows. As far as I know, this is within the competence of the Foreign Ministry, an initiative is under way between the two countries to re-qualify a certain number of interstate transitions to the international level, thus opening these crossings 24 hours. Depending on how this initiative will be implemented and allowed, the opening time is then also determined. Your second question concerns the cost of protection, the additional cost of protection associated with the additional opening time, which is fully understandable on the day of the celebration, 1.5. Under the State border control law adopted by this National Assembly, the police are obliged to charge those costs which are protection costs outside the ordinary opening time. We are looking at the legal basis that, exceptionally for the day of the celebration of the entry into the European Union, such charging would not be carried out. If there are legal options for this, the police are willing to do so, otherwise we propose and we will push for the costs to be borne by the other state costs of these celebrations. We will definitely support this. However, it is the responsibility of the committee to coordinate such celebrations. But I'd like to take this opportunity to introduce you to something else if I have so much time. Indeed, we have agreed with the Republic of Hungary, as well as with Austria, as well as with Italy, and we have also signed a special implementing agreement to the international agreement on border control in road and rail transport, on the so-called unilateral border control after 1.5 this year. This unilateral control, simplified control essentially means that police control will be carried out at only one point, that is to say only in one country, either in Slovenia or, for example, in Hungary. It is also agreed with Hungarian colleagues on a detailed programme of this unilateral control. I can tell you this is what it's gonna look like. Full and only on the Slovenian side will be at the border crossings of Pinke, Kobilje, Martinje and Čepinci, fully on the Hungarian side will be at the crossing of Prosjenjakovci, at the border crossing of Hodoš will be carried out on the Hungarian side and entry control on the Slovenian side. At the Long border crossing, freight control will be carried out on the Hungarian side and passengers on the Slovenian side. And at the railway crossing Hodos will be controlled on the Slovenian side, as it has been done so far. This agreement - a similar agreement will also be reached with the other two countries, some of which are still stuck with Italy - will significantly simplify the conduct of police supervision after 1.5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Maria, are you satisfied or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u167	I would be pleased if the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could agree on who is actually responsible for this. I received a written reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that they could not do anything because the Ministry of the Interior was responsible. Don't make excuses like that, and then the Hungarians do that once you give the initiative, the second time they give, but never at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Minister, please explain more.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u169	Let's be perfectly clear about these powers. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be responsible and responsible for carrying out the process of reaching an inter-State opening time agreement. This is their jurisdiction, and we have no influence whatsoever, but we are consulted if we are able to do so. And if such an agreement is agreed, if an agreement is reached, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior to conclude an extended opening time agreement, for example 24 hours, by additional engagement of police services. This is what we will do if an agreement is reached between Slovenia and Croatia on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u170	Thank you very much. It's mag. Andrej Vizjak, who has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Dr. Vlad Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials! I would like to raise a question with a problem that I think is hot in our society, despite the fact that the Prime Minister has presented that we are only good here compared to the 15th. In fact, I believe that the problem of solving long-term unemployment and solving unemployment is becoming more difficult among the growing problems in our country, as the share of this category of unemployment in the total unemployment is increasing. An untransparent and non-selective system of social transfers and benefits creates even more problems. Regrettably, it is too often that those who can take care of themselves and solve their problem or find a job are receiving help from the country. However, those who are most in need receive some average low aid that does not provide them with a decent life. In short, I'm sure indiscretion is caused by many anomalies. One of these was in the skies when a Romani saint, who was elected to the congregational council of one of the congregations, declared that he no longer wanted to be a saint. And why doesn't he want to be a saint anymore? Because he was getting a monthly meeting of 58,000 tolars. And since this was, of course, counted as income, he was reduced by social transfers and, of course, received the same amount of money a month, but he had to go to a meeting of the municipal council and sit there for five hours. And he said why would I work and go to a meeting of the congregation council if I got the same money, whether I was home or going to a meeting of the world. That's true of others, but at least he was that honest, and he said it. If we compare the sum of social transfers under the law on social protection and other forms of assistance of the state and municipalities - free kindergartens, school food subsidies, housing subsidies - in the family of unemployed parents, the income is the same as if parents were employed and received a low or minimum wage. Clearly, there is no motive for unemployed parents to seek employment and employment. Even the opposite. Permanent social transfers stimulate them to avoid employment and to seek employment in the grey market. In view of the tendency to reduce unemployment, especially those who are more difficult to work, and to reduce work to the black Minister of Labour, I therefore ask: Does he consider such a situation to be appropriate? How does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs intend to motivate the unemployed and recipients of social assistance to actively seek employment under such a described system of social transfers?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u172	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u173	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. Of course, you are aware that the answer to this question can be very broad. But you've highlighted an individual case, and I don't think it makes sense on a case-by-case basis that you're developing a theory on social systems in general. But the fact is, this is a sensitive area, and this area could be said to be sorted from day one, since we actually started working in this government. In fact, there is always a question in society, how much, to put it this way, social and how much motivation, in fact, to work. And that's the question you asked. You probably agree that social transfers are not too high for us because this thesis is also circulating, but I do not think that you have implied this in your question. For I myself believe that social transfer, or monetary social assistance, where the so-called social benefit is narrowly defined, or social transfer, has increased from 26 000 in 2000, 2001 to 45 000 today, as the so-called definition of minimum income. Earlier, the Prime Minister had discussed these ratios of average wages, minimum wages and so on. Of course, we are aware that regulating these relations in society is, of course, a long-lasting act. Such a problem is faced by virtually all the countries of the European Union, where they are trying, on the one hand, to motivate the individual to work. By the way, we had one such activity a while ago, as far as hop robbers are concerned, where, in fact, we succeeded in some specific activity, which was consistent and consistent with the agri-land chamber, so that we could actually employ as many domestic workers and workers as possible to rob hops. And I think that's the way we can go. As far as your questions are concerned, without actually going to the statistical level here, your claim to increase the number of long-term unemployed is incorrect. Because in the last two and a half years of the previous two years, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed have fallen to slightly more than 50%. We also have more and more programmes to do so for the so-called "harder unemployed". So I could say that we are aware of this problem, which is talking about, of course, the difficult situation and employment of people who are employed, so it is this segment that has so much more resources, so much more measures, so much more instruments. And secondly, to put it this way, the priority, in addition to the more difficult people in employment, is, of course, that the resources for the unemployed are allocated, or active employment policies, to regions with an over-average high unemployment rate. So these are two priorities. And in areas with a high unemployment rate or an average unemployment rate, almost 70% of active employment policy funds are targeted. This is, of course, a question of motivation, not just a macro, so to speak, a macro-economic question that concerns, I would say, an appropriate relationship between social transfers, minimum wage, average pay, etc. There is always a need to ensure that there is, in fact, a certain motivation for a person to work. The question of motivation is, of course, also a microeconomic problem. You can have two companies that are equally successful, they are in the same industry, but they have different motivation systems and one that better motivates its employees, but of course it can be more productive, will have more satisfied employees, etc. The third thing I could say, however, is, of course, this strategic framework, which I would say you have warned about. It must be said that we have already foreseen all of this in the programme, the 2004 National Action Programme, including individual programmes to raise motivation. This programme, the 2004 National Action Programme, fully aligns this with the European Employment Strategy, which is based on the so-called Lisbon objectives, and the Lisbon objectives represent for the European Union, the countries of the European Union, of course also Slovenia, I would say, some basic, I would say, the orientations that we have to draw up in national action programmes, of course, so that we can talk in 2010 about achieving these national and, of course, European, Lisbon objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Please, supplement the question, colleague mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u175	Of course, I could certainly not agree that my implementation would be able to conclude that social transfers are too high, but I think they are not selective. I'm stressing again. Many times those who could earn money with their work are the recipients of these, and it is because of this lack of selectivity of the system of granting social transfers that they are not forced to do so and there is no motivation to help you, through counselors at employment institutions or anything else. If there's a clear economic motive here for someone to get the same money for the week as someone to work with. I do not think that just some motivational course and look-see measures will produce fruit, but they will produce effective, selective systems that will prevent the most, but not entirely, because this cannot be created ideally. In fact, however, it is now clear to me that the Ministry is not preparing any effective systems to increase the selectivity of the allocation of transfers. I'm stressing again. I personally assess that social transfers are too low for those that are actually needed. For a disabled person who is dependent on foreign assistance, people who simply cannot find employment because of their health are too low and at the same time motivate even a handful of those who can solve their problem and do not solve it. As long as this is the case, we will continue to deal with unemployment and spend state money on passive forms, which I don't think is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u176	Minister Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u177	Mr Vizjak, you know that every year we have this debate on the budget, that, in fact, the share of so-called passive forms is decreasing, by proportion, and that it is in favour of active aid. Even this year, we added three new measures to the budget in the budget implementation law, focusing mainly on those groups, saying young people, first job seekers, then older ones, so that as many as possible in these groups, which, I say, are most at risk, further reduce unemployment. And of course you know that because you read the reports because you once assured me. Secondly, as regards the issues relating to the relationship between salaries and social benefits. That's a very sensitive question. Of course, we are also a social state, so we must also take care of those who cannot fully exercise their ability in the labour market or are prevented from doing so for other subjective or objective reasons. So here we have to be careful when we talk, why not, why this yes. We have a very fragmented system of social assistance, which we have completed in this period with amendments to the Social Protection Act, where we introduced this so-called minimum income, which, as I said, increased by almost 70% between 2001 and 2004. This is important. Secondly, what I'd say about the selectivity of the measures. A long time ago, an analysis of the effectiveness of social policy in Slovenia was made by foreign and domestic experts, in short, who have identified in comparable methodologies what our social policy is. The effectiveness of social policy in Slovenia was found to be greater than in the European Union. That we have a level of social expenditure in gross domestic product 26.6 which is comparable to the European Union, but that we have a higher level of efficiency. And that, in fact, the so-called cost-effectiveness or, you could say, the transaction costs we have to allocate social assistance to make efficiency more efficient than in the European Union. This has also been demonstrated in this study, which was also the basis for discussing the budget, where we have in fact identified the optimal level of individual social benefits. This is measured by the so-called concentration coefficients, such as Ginny's coefficient and so forth, so that it does not go in this methodological direction, where, in essence, individual stratums, those most vulnerable, most socially disadvantaged, are allocated the largest part of social assistance. And the first two deciles, says below 20%, are allocated more than 80% of monetary social assistance. This is more or at least as effective as the countries in which we are talking about social policy and social systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Dimovski. The next question will be to the Minister without a department responsible for regional development, mag. Kovac, picked up by colleague Maja Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The government's proposal for a new law to promote coherent regional development, with which Slovenia is to be divided into fourteen development regions, has strongly aroused spirits and sparked various objections at different ends of Slovenia. Dissatisfaction comes from the north-east end, from Podravje, even from the regions of Savinj and Posav region there are different proposals, the pond-kočev area wants different developmental outline, and strong opposition is also in coastal and inter-Krača municipalities, and elsewhere. As an MEP from Notranjska, I receive different opinions, suggestions and comments from citizens and citizens from the field. We know that there was a proposal that the existing statistical region, coastal and inland karst regions join together into a coastal and karst development region, which has been strongly opposed by the mayors of the municipalities of the interior and karst regions and has been successful so far, which does not mean that this option would not be realized at any time in the future. The mood in the field is very different. On the one hand, some municipalities of the coastal and karst region want to move to the interior-Kraška region in order to obtain additional funds, which creates great dissatisfaction with the other member states of the coastal and karst region. On the other hand, despite the wishes of citizens, the population of Cerknica, Loška dolina and Blocke from the inner karst region does not want to be connected to the karst region because they are connected and gravitated against Ljubljana, which they also showed years ago when they did not want to accept permanent car registrations. It is clear that by establishing and strengthening regional mechanisms and institutions you are also supporting the further development of administrative regionalism in Slovenia, which has fallen into the water by rejecting the change of constitution. Therefore, efforts for the coastal region, as one of the provinces to act as a single space and to connect 20 municipalities, are understandable, and it would be very unusual for these to include even, if I say so, pure internal congregations. The fact is that both mayors and citizens are in their own way disappointed with the concept of regionalism. Madam Minister, I ask you: Would it not be good to consider the proposal to form, on the one hand, a coastal-Kraška region, which would include all coastal and karst municipalities and establish a coastal landscape, and on the other hand an internal region that would unite municipalities in the Ljubljanica river from the southern border to the city of Ljubljana and have the opportunity to organise an appropriate landscape? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u180	Thank you very much, colleague Zupan, for asking the question. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear colleagues and colleagues ministers and ministers! Thank you for that question. So you're really right. The law on the promotion of coherent regional development is partly, I will say, starting to encourage a debate on how to organise for future development. And it is true that in a sense it has a problem because it was created at the same time as ideas about the establishment of landscapes, and this has led to the direct integration of this concept of the development organisation with the administrative and political organisation. It is also true that in the Inland karst region, one of the versions of the law was prepared in such a way that the present statistical region of the Inland karst region, which is relatively small, even for the Slovenian situation, was prepared only for the European region in order to join the coastal karst region. This is all the more so because we have come from an existing situation. However, the current situation is that Illyrian Bistrica, which belongs to the present intra-Karska statistical region, has already joined the coastal karst to prepare a regional development programme and is also implementing this regional development programme within this region. However, after all the arguments that, of course, we also received from the stage of the preparation of the law, we finally decided to leave the interior karst to be organised in our development region, by also receiving at a time when the law was forwarded to Parliament, the conclusion of the Logatec Municipal Council, which wants to join the Inland Kras region. In the discussions we held on the ground, we also said that we will not actually share the coastal and karst regions, but Illyrian Bistrica will remain in the coastal and karst region as well. So we think that the matter is now resolved in this area. Of course, we know that there are many other ideas, or not many, but just two, three ideas about how to organize Slovenian regions. I must say that we must come from the way regional development programmes have been prepared so far, because, last but not least, it has been invested in this large amount of public money, and most institutions have already been set up to lead these projects forward and it would not make sense that we are now putting this development completely new. How this will be linked to future provinces is, of course, a matter of the future. Personally, I also think that there is no terrible problem if, tomorrow, a single coastal landscape is established, which will be within three regional development managements, as we call it. In comparison, I always give Austria-Stajersko, which is an administrative and political country, and within it has eight regional development management, in order to be as qualified as possible to strengthen its economic efficiency and, of course, to effectively prepare projects for the use of the European Structural Funds. So that we also want this system of developing regions from below to be organised where people and the economy and, of course, also the non-governmental sector feel that they want to work together for development, that such a region also has some kind of gravitational, regional or at least some more cities that can represent such a centre, and that it has at least some minimum critical mass, a critical mass of resources, of course, that it will have. In the case of coastal and inland karst, the view also prevailed, that of course it was a different specificity of development, different potentials and that, of course, we need another additional regional centre between Kopro and Ljubljana. Of course, the general debate on the law that will take place in May will be an opportunity to further explain to each other what we really want with this. All the congregations, however, have been called upon to provide their counter-arguments on the basis of which we could re-judge the matter, insofar as they disagree with our decision, with our proposed law. We want to ensure that we not only have regions on paper, but we will have regions that will actually work in development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u182	Complementary to the question, colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u183	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for your written answer to my question of February. Please allow an additional question. In view of the fact that you said you wanted the regions to really come to life: Can we understand from this that you will allow citizens and citizens in areas where they do not agree, for example, with the government proposal to decide which region they want to live in at the survey referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u184	Madam Minister, would you like to complete your response? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u185	Thank you very much. So our concept of the law is based on the so-called developmental union of municipalities, which will operate according to the principles of the law on local self-government, so of course we want the municipal councils to make a declaration of which area, of course, they want to work together and to set up a regional development council with the economy and other development actors in each development area, which will represent the governing body in such a development region. Such cases, we also know such active development regions in other parts of Europe, especially in Finland, so of course we do not foresee that research referendums are needed to do so, but we estimate that it is sufficient that, in accordance with the law on local self-government, the municipal councils declare the link to the development union of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u186	I think we're done with this question and we can go to the next one. Master Janez Kramberger, colleague Kramberger will raise a question to the Minister of the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I would like to ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Master Janez Kopač, about the problem of decommissioning of out-of-work cars. I am informed that the Ministry of Environment and Space has offered the processing of used cars to the huge company Carbon for so-called experimental operation. In the future, you intend to entrust this work to three other companies, which you have somehow chosen at the Ministry. These privileged companies will later be able to participate in a public tender. Dear Mr. Secretary! With this move, you have somehow caused about 40 craftsmen involved in such activities to cease operating in Slovenia. But the fact is, none of these have been tested. As a result, about 100 people will lose their jobs, and this is not a good journey for the European Union. It is also interesting that you came to this decision without agreement from some agreement of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I want to know: Are you planning on withdrawing these 40 business permits? They are still in the process of building buildings for the purposes of such activities, which require high investment. To this end, owners have committed themselves to: How will they cover the costs or repay the loans they have rented, since they have been granted building permits up to the last? These craftsmen also have, as is said, construction and craft permits and signed contracts with the Automove Association of Slovenia for the deposit and storage of carbolized and also worn-out vehicles. It is also interesting that these craftsmen have a two-month deadline for the transfer of vehicles to selected companies, and after this period these craftsmen will also have to pay for decommissioning. Mr Minister, I thank you for your reply on how you will resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u188	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u189	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Kramberger. As early as last year, the government adopted a regulation on the way, the object and conditions of the economic service of handling used motor vehicles, where it defined this as a public service and what I am talking about is the processing of passenger cars which are de-registered after 1 May 2004. So, which are checked out of traffic by their owners after 1 May 2004. Well, this public service has been offered in the execution of anyone who has responded to our invitation. There were ten bidders on our invitation to tender, of which they were in fact, and I also think that three cars are being scrapped but did not meet the tendering conditions. The tendering conditions were met only by some operators, first it was found that three had been found, then a complaint to the audit committee. This one said two, but one was incomplete. So in the end, one more gave us up, and finally we decided to make a temporary selection of the public service providers for one year. In this provisional selection four operators have been selected to apply for this invitation to tender and have been identified in all procedures, field inspections to meet the conditions and are in short appropriate. Well, these four are also Wolf for the area from Maribor to the east, Prekmurje, Pomurje as well, then Carbon from Velenje for the area of Celje, Savinja-Salje region also Posavje, then Get or Get Engineering for the region of Ljubljana and Gorenjska and partly Zasavje and Auto Transport Kastelec for the area of Primorska, Notranjska and one part of Dolenjska. About a quarter of it is divided by Slovenia. Well, these four are now selected temporarily for a period of one year, and we will go to a new call for the selection of the so-called permanent contractor. Then, of course, the possibility for all 40 vehicles of waste to report for this public service will be reopened. Of course, they will have to meet the tendering conditions. However, the tendering conditions are quite strict. For example, I must say that one of the large bidders, Dinos, did not meet the conditions, because he could not show a valid permit in a particular facility. So in fact, for most of those you mentioned, the scope of their business will be significantly reduced after May 1st and, of course, they can only deal with things that are not covered by this public service. There's still something left for them. However, they can, of course, be involved in a contractual relationship with these four public service providers, which some have already done, as they called in as consortia because they were one of these four leading companies. However, they can also try on their own at the invitation to tender, and of course they will have to guarantee that they will cover the entire area for which the concession is awarded. Your question in which to understand words, whether or not to return a trade permit, is of course not in place, because the government does not decide whether or not to have a trade permit, but of course they will be able to do so, but it is, once again, that their volume of business or demand for their services will, of course, be significantly reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u190	Is the question exhausted? Yes, it is. Okay. Then we can go to the next one. The Secretary-General of the Government would like to raise a question with our colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My question would probably be more substantively addressed to the Foreign Minister, but according to the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bohinc is pursuing the sole interests of his political party even in the context of the story deleted and is not pursuing the objective of constitutionality and legality, which, according to our assessment, should therefore be number 1 in the context of the operation of each minister within the Slovenian Government. Let me give you some facts for the introduction. The National Assembly has adopted a technical law on deleted after a reduced procedure, for incomprehensible reasons for us, as well as that the State Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has defined the matter of self-existence in two laws, both systemic and technical. The content of these laws has been disputed through various roles of various institutions, which have cooperated from the very beginning, from the drafting of the law to the final stage of the Constitutional Court. Thus, we know that civil society, the professional public, even lecturers were hired by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and their decision was taken only to the extent that the opinion of the profession was shared with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the moment the Government found out that it was doing wrong and that the profession had warned them about it, they had, of course, changed their decision. I would like to point out that the fact of the dispute over the government's way of resolving the deleted has, of course, caused us both in the opposition and in the state world and many individuals in our country to address this issue in a referendum. In the previous referendum, I think that on Sunday, 14 days ago, the citizens decided by a large majority not to agree with the way in which you proposed it and to legislate in the United List, Liberal Democracy and DeSUS. According to our assessment, of course, the decision of the people, citizens and citizens at the referendum was correct. This has also shown you, despite your natives, that they do not allow you to play, for the first time, with the history of the Republic of Slovenia, with the period of independence and the second time that they do not allow you to pressure us into an uncertain future. I am interested in the clarity of the referendum outcome on the basis of Article 23 and Article 25 of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do or when will it stop issuing decisions which, according to our assessment, are, of course, contrary to the three basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which are contrary to the referendum will? I sincerely hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still considered a government in the service of citizens and not the other way around. I'm afraid you're acting like you're a citizen in your line of work. I'm asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u192	Mr. Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I will primarily give my personal answer to this question. I've rarely had a chance to say anything about it, maybe this time. I don't even know why such a question. I think it is clear to everyone what was the decision at the referendum and what the legal consequences of this decision are. The fact is that the law, which was indeed adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, was so-called technical law, but was not confirmed at the referendum and therefore not. And since he's not here, the will of the voters in the referendum will be fully respected. This, of course, means nothing more than that the Ministry of the Interior or the competent authorities are likely to continue to issue decisions like the rule of law of this country, as established by the regulations and as proclaimed, of course, by the institutions of a democratic state, even Slovenia has, won, and has been in force in the normal democratic world for several centuries. I think it is quite clear that this Parliament, or the predecessor of this Parliament, adopted a constitutional law in 1991. With Article 13, this constitutional law gave people living in this area of the then Republic of Slovenia certain rights, certain guarantees, certain guarantees, which of course were valid, and this was valid with the highest will of the founder, given by constitutional law not to mention this, of course, that these rights and cauldrons were also agreed politically, as far as I know, the agreement was signed by so-called all-important parliamentary parties at the time. And, of course, any change in back-relationship, interference with constitutional law over 10 years ago would have meant in some way revolutionary law, would definitely have meant it. Constitutional matter is affected when social relations are more serious, but I think that in some normal development of the country of Slovenia there is no need for such a thing, and I also think that it would be not only undemocratic but also markedly non-civilisational and completely contrary to everything that this country has declared so far, for which the electorates have also decided plebiscitely and for which we are finally fighting and we have fought and also worked hard when we are trying to become members of the most, I would say, the advanced and democratic associations that surround us. So there's nothing else I can answer. While I can also quote some of the arguments made in today's Constitutional Court decision, which, among other things, has found that the referendum issue relating to the so-called system law is unconstitutional this time. The Constitutional Court has also made it quite clear that if we read on page 5 that the unconstitutionality that has been established is a key non-constitution, it is precisely that the person who was 26.2. deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, that he could not, despite meeting all the conditions under the so-called ZUSDD- [[?]] She couldn't prove that she was actually staying. So, this key unconstitutionality, says the Constitutional Court, that the legislator cannot arrange otherwise, means one of those issues which must be addressed urgently in order to eliminate the unconstitutionality of the ZUSDD and to regulate, in accordance with the Constitution, the legal situation of citizens of other republics of the former SFRY. Perhaps there is another claim in this regard, or a sentence in this decision, which I think is at the level of international and democratic standards. At the end of page 7, I quote: "The principles of the rule of law laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution oblige not only the legislator but also the electorate to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the event that they exercise authority directly and is the subject of a referendum decision, to eliminate the unconstitutionality established by a decision of the Constitutional Court." So I hope and I am sure that Minister Bohinc will do nothing differently in the future and that he will respect the rule of law of this country, for which he, after all, has sworn before this national assembly. With regard to the government, however, I can argue that at the moment, it does not plan any changes to any laws in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u194	Completing the question, colleague Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u195	Well, your answer is more misleading than I thought it would be. The fact is that citizenship is not a right. And when you have also included in your reply the area of the system law, let me tell you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made it impossible with its Members - I emphasise, it has prevented! - to make the law acceptable to citizens and citizens. Putting yourself, i.e. you and Mr Bohinc above the citizens and citizens of this country, but unfortunately, you have confirmed the policy or continuation of the policy you started many years ago. But I would like to highlight that part - you know, the issue of content is important. And people at the referendum decided on the content. They said they don't agree with the way you're offering. Why do you not accept this basic fact that 95% of citizens and citizens have decided otherwise to resolve the matter as you suggest; they simply do not agree with government policy? And at the same time, let me take one last minute - tell me: What, then, is the point of your party, the most powerful party in this national assembly, to which you, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, have recently asked people in a certain opinion in the form of various questionnaires, in order to determine the civil will and to adapt their policy to the civil will, while you have the official civil will established through the referendum, you do not take these into account? The referendum or outcome of the referendum gave content. All that is, respect her! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well as I, the Slovenian National Party, the National Assembly as a whole, are in the service of the people. And I stress that citizenship is not a constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond, Secretary General?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u197	Yes, if you're using me as a private or as a member of the Liberal Democracy, we can use this instrument. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u198	You're the secretary general.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u199	We can also use this instrument to do so, and of course I will answer you. First of all, of course, I wasn't talking about any citizenship. I think that, after all these stories, it is probably pointless to deceive people, that they are deleted in the case of any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, for any election right or anything else. It is simple for people who lived here and who, when they had the opportunity to choose Slovenian citizenship, did not decide for it. But there are foreigners here with permanent residence, which was ultimately provided by the constitutional order of this country, the constitutional law. And the way that this was adopted, I think that it even has plebiscite roots and that we can say, at least I think we can say that every decision of the National Assembly is not only legal, but also legitimate, because it is ultimately justified at least every four years in elections. In this respect, of course, those who enforce the rule of law of this country do nothing but act as servants, rather than people who are, of course, citizens and citizens, but not over them. And I also consider myself that way, and I am sure that in the same role, or I can also define the work of Minister Bohinec. And as I said, of course, the referendum is binding and the government will respect it. And he will be respected by those who make decisions. There's just no law. People didn't confirm it. You could say that this is where he got the national council slapping, you could even say that she got the government, personally, I think that's what he's holding. You can also assign one of the political parties, if you want, this slap, but the fact is that this will will be respected and this law will not be enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Probably for a discussion of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u201	It is precisely because, in my opinion, of deliberate deception or lying, both to Members and possibly to the general public, I propose that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we carry out this very important general debate to vote on it tomorrow. And yet, it is not true that the government takes into account the referendum will. You have just said that the government takes into account the referendum will, while it itself issues decisions of course, which is in the clear contradiction, and this is clear to anyone who has an intelligent quota above room temperature. And once again, in your answer, you're misleading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u202	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Look, let's say we think differently, we don't have to say it in a way that someone would take it as an insult. Now, you have suggested that we answer your question on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. That's what we'll decide. That was your suggestion, wasn't it? Yeah. That was your suggestion. So let's decide tomorrow. Okay. Dr. Miha Brac wants to ask the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u203	Which I don't see.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u204	He's excusedly absent today. You have the right to stand, and you can leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u205	Yes, thank you. The Institute for Entrepreneurship and Management of Small Businesses at the University of Maribor, in its study of Slovenian Entrepreneurship, the Slovenian Business Observatory 2003, found that 99% of all companies, 99.7% of all companies are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and that they employ 63% of all employees. So small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises are an important part of the Slovenian economy, and in these companies, this research again shows, they complain the most about payment non-discipline. In second place is tax policy, then they call bureaucracy and so on. So payment discipline, 73.6% of entrepreneurs think that payment non-discipline is a very serious problem and then state, of course, also in our SM Union [[?]] similar arguments. They say the effects of financial non-discipline are actually terrible. Because many entrepreneurs lose their jobs because they don't pay their bills, lose their substance, shut down their businesses. The result is increased unemployment, abandonment of entrepreneurship, decreased interest in entrepreneurship, loss of confidence in law and so on. Among the poor payers, among the irregular payers is the Slovenian state, especially state-owned companies, then large construction companies, which pay very irregularly for their subcontractors. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: What will the Ministry of Finance do to improve payment discipline in cases where the government or parts of that government are part of the contracting authority or the payer? What measures will the Ministry of Finance prepare to address this pressing problem in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u206	Allow me to ask you, Comrade Dr. Brace, would you like the Minister to answer your question orally or in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u207	I want him to answer in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u208	It's written. That's exactly what we're gonna take into account. He has 30 days to answer you, but he can answer sooner. Dr Dimovski will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question from his colleague Dr Bernik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! I have spoken to the Minister several times about this matter, and you will not be surprised if today I am talking about the law that was passed in this House, the graves of war, almost a year ago. Now I'm asking him: What has happened since then? What did the government have to do with this? What's the location of these graves? As you know, Slovenia is the country in Europe that has the most mass graves. And if we add them up, there's about 200. I'm curious now that you've probably read it, it's the law: What do you think of those two false and shameful designations, the victims of war and post-war executions? What execution in Slovenian means, you know, and I would like to know what it means to do, because it was certainly done with great hatred. Otherwise, after a conviction, these people who were then killed, either way, may be a nuisance, and it is possible to use appearances today. I'm also interested in: What is Mr. Žnidaršič doing, on the one hand, working for the fighters, and on the other hand manipulating these poor people? Isn't that a job for you that's a conflict of interest? Not only that, it's real corruption. Please take note of this. And I find it strange that this marriage was made in your ministry, which has such a beautiful name. Probably just to make it look a little better. Then there's a whole series of other laws that absolutely deny any help to anyone who wasn't for the Partisan Liberation Front. And they could fight like captains, and they fought like I don't know what, they don't have those rights. I think we're gonna have to find a way to make this happen, and hopefully we'll get there sometime. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And let me just say that your ministry and the relatives of these murdered people, who for 50, 60 years didn't know where they were buried, didn't rank them, didn't ask about anything. [[...]] But if it's not the bottom of corruption, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u210	Please, Minister, you have the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u211	Dr. Bernick, there are facts and your interpretation. I allow you to have an interpretation of certain issues, but you know without a doubt that the law has been adopted by the National Assembly. The Ministry shall implement the laws adopted by the National Assembly. You can disagree with them, you can support them, you can support them, one way or another, like the Ministry, we have to implement these laws. Including what is written in the law and by means of sub-laws, which are required by individual laws. And even in this case, the two regulations and I have already answered you many times, and we have also given you a written reply to the rules governing the burial order resulting from this law. Therefore, it is of course important that you understand everyone who works at the Ministry to implement some law policy defined by the National Assembly. And I think that this relationship between the legislative and executive powers is clear. Of course, it is important to state the facts of the war graves law. At this time after the adoption of the law, it is from your interpretation to understand as if nothing had happened. That's not true. We are definitely working on the construction of the Teharje Memorial Park, we are definitely working on the construction of the chapel in Kočevska Rog, the first single memorial mark on the silent cemetery at the Zalesnik Cave near Trnov nad Novo Gorica and so on. Not only has this been done, but this, in my view, is an extremely important symbolic act, and you have attached it or not, definitely. It is important that, in essence, a contract for the continuation of works in the area of detection, recording of silenced graves has also been signed - definitely a civilisation act. In any case, I say once again that the War Cemetery Act is a grave-making act, not an interpretation of history, as you or someone like you might wish. This isn't the War Cemetery Act. The War Cemetery Act regulates what the law regulates. It is important that the law also imposed the production and adoption of an annual programme for the protection of war graves, and it has already been adopted for 2004. In any case, it is available because the ministry's work in this area, as in all others, is transparent and we want people to know what we are doing. And this one is also transparent, or we can deliver it to you. It is also important, as far as the ministry is concerned, to look at taking over the Ministry in its protection of those graves which have been identified, recorded and completed on them all the investigations, otherwise we cannot do so, we are not responsible for them, and that is, of course, quite clear to you. Therefore, of course, it is also necessary to understand that the Ministry will take such graves into its own protection gradually and, of course, in accordance with the financial means or the public funding available to us. However, of course, certain investment works are needed at existing graves, that the ministry has been fully entrusted with the task of restoring, maintaining the graves of World War I and so on. A whole series of questions, of course, that need to be done. However, as far as general rights are concerned, it is a principle of non-discrimination. In fact, the allocation of individual rights is non-discriminatory, and here too is the work of the Ministry by, of course, implementing the laws adopted by Parliament as the highest, I would say, a parliamentary institution or a democratic institution of the parliamentary state. And that is how we understand our work and do it, in my opinion, according to the best of conscience. As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, it is his decision in which the non-governmental institution or what it will do in the afternoon. You're part of civil society, too, if I'm not mistaken. I am also part of civil society, but this does not mean that there is a conflict of interest in such a case. In fact, we also encourage that we are members of different civil societies, of course there is no conflict of interest, but of course there are clear rules in which case it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Minister for Answers. Bogdan Barovic has the following question, namely, to the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirk Bandl, please. Dr. Bernick, would you like another explanation? I'm sorry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u213	Mr Minister, thank you very much for what you have said, but this is very little and I ask you a written answer to these questions. However, as regards my question about what you will do, let's say, with those inscriptions, there is, however, the Secretary-General of the Government here, who can tell you how quickly the government will turn if any amendment needs to be adopted that it needs. And why don't one minister have enough money to say it's wrong, let's get this fixed. Don't say you don't have any power. Besides, you haven't responded to my conflict of interest and corruption. These are two situations where both come in on a day. And I'm going to say this when the government commission had or the government had its own constitutional commission, it had a whole range of lawyers. When these gentlemen are, after we set up a legislative commission in Parliament, who was in there? Half these people who had previously advised the government. I said, this is a conflict of interest. And I asked lawyers around the world, and they all agreed. None of these lawyers were able to confirm this in writing. And you can confirm that this is not a conflict of interest, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Minister, do you want to answer that yet?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u215	I want to be very clear. You orally asked one question, you asked the other question in writing. We can answer your written question, no doubt, but the oral questions that you have just repeated have not been answered; I am sticking to the rules of procedure in this direction. If you'll excuse me, we can answer you in writing and we will. It is clear what the rules are, as far as conflicts of interest are concerned. Generally speaking, as you wanted here, of course you can't. We will answer you, as I said, we will give concrete answers to specific questions. However, it is a government commission, if you have had this government commission in mind, where the powers are determined by the government's decision, but not by the Ministry's decision, you must understand this, and here is the distinction. But in any case, we want to and we are also explaining to you practically for some time now on these issues. And we will continue because we want to know what we are actually doing. Because we want to do this transparently, we want to work in a civilised way and in a pathetic way, whether you admit it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u216	Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u217	Thank you. The laws regulate life around the world and in Slovenia too. Most of the laws are made by the government. In recent times, however, there have been many and most of the laws resulting from the coordination and adaptation of the European Union. Okay. But what are these laws, I will tell you an example in one marriage, and it is right that you listen very carefully to everyone. Following an urgent procedure, the National Assembly is to decide on a law which, for the first time, is a literal translation of the Directive and even from Anglo-Saxon law; secondly, it is without any provision on compliance with Slovenian legislation; thirdly, it introduces confusion into the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia; fourthly, it has a completely inadequate nom technical approach that causes confusion and controversy; fifthly, it is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure; sixthly, it derogates from the applicable rules of the legal order of Slovenia; seventhly, it uses foreigners; eighthly, it uses inappropriate words for Slovenian legislation; ninethly, it is unclear, in particular, according to the content of the home committee being tried; tenthly, it has a mark of general legal openness and, lastly, a grave intervention in the basic laws of the Republic of Slovenia. The government's explanation for the introduction of such a law into the National Assembly says: "It is urgent to harmonise it." And he even says: "In the country of the Republic of Slovenia, you will have to get used to changing the Slovenian legal term being adapted to the foreign legal expression and that Slovenia's legal nomotechnic approach, which has a tradition and for which all lawyers fight, is slowly forgotten and even in the end we have heard the threat, the threat that, if this country does not adopt this law, the kind of law that the government has given it threatens with compensation by individuals and others. Mr. Secretary-General. Where is the respect of the Slovenian legal order, please? Secondly: Where is mutual respect between two legal entities? Third: Where is the content of this law? And if this content is, please tell me where it is adapted to the Slovenian political, legal and economic system and order? Fourthly: Why do such laws, I ask you kindly, send to this national assembly, which has no right to ask anything, nothing to change despite the eleven perfectly clearly indicated inadequate provisions. And next time, please tell me, are they preparing this law in your government service or outside associates? And if these outside associates, finally, have prepared, I will say translate, translate and rewrite such a law, I am very interested in, please, how concrete - I can tell you in the end, this is the law on financial insurance - how much did this professional outsider cost to copy and translate such an inappropriate law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u219	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u220	The Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u221	At the last question, of course, I can't give you an answer, because I didn't know which law you were asking about. However, the institution of the law is the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Finance was involved. I don't know, I don't think it makes sense for me to argue with you right now, because I think your grades are the least that's probably too big, but look. In Slovenia, however, the legislative procedure as defined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly applies. It is true that the government here has often been suppressed in time, it is true that because of Europe and because of adapting our legal order, even because of the threat of possible sanctions, if some of the regulations were not harmonised by 1 May, we were actually in a hurry, and I fully agree with you that, at the expense of haste and on the account of quantity, there are many times that quality has suffered. That's what happens in cases like this. It is therefore necessary to weigh efficiency and possibly slightly worse products with quality and, of course, a significantly smaller volume of these products. I think that, despite all these years of adapting Slovenian legislation, we have chosen the right measure of each other. After all, this is also proved by the assessments that come not only from local logos, but mainly from Europe. Slovenia is the best-prepared new member and we can be proud of that. In the government, I must say that we are particularly, especially because you also find that most of these laws are being prepared by the government. It is true that, of course, there are sometimes aboriginal deficiencies in this rush. And it is also true that the professional services of the National Assembly in such cases explicitly alert us to these shortcomings and that, of course, they also return such proposals of laws to our attention. I don't know if that happened in this case. If so, of course, this law would have been rectified, if it had not happened, the law was obviously capable of parliamentary procedure in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted in this national assembly and by which the national assembly works. And at the end of the day, the scissors and the canvas in the adoption of the laws are still in your hands of the Parliament. In Slovenia, the National Assembly is a legislator, and I suppose the National Assembly has, of course, adopted such a law as it considered necessary to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u222	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u223	Mr. Secretary-General of the Government, I have addressed to you the question because she is a traitor or a proponent of the law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, 11 explicit violations I have listed, which are precisely mentioned in the assessment and opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. These were reasoned and presented to the mother's working body, but this mother's working body, except for my voice, because I have explicitly and repeatedly voted against it with pride, decided to adopt such a law, despite these 11 provisions, for the sake of the threat I have mentioned - if not, it will apply to the country of 1.5. compensation responsibility and no one cares, that was the answer. I will ask you nicely if you can give me a written answer as to who has prepared such a law and, of course, if it is not the secrecy of the data, how much it costs. And one more thing. I didn't mean to say it on purpose. It's not the only case. There's a lot of cases like this. I would not be proud to say that Slovenia has achieved great success at the expense of such large, huge marital errors, even constitutional errors in laws. I wouldn't brag about it. Last but not least, let me say that if, as I have presented to you, I have been alone, then I suggest that such laws be adopted by the EU Council or by the Commissioners in Europe, or that such laws be adopted by the government itself and bear full responsibility for them. Allow me to say that for this national assembly, it is a shame for all 90 Members when such a law comes to a decision tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Would you like some more?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u225	Maybe two more sentences. The fact is that this time there was an exceptional situation, which will be different after May 1st, and you know how relations also change within the country, and the EU's visa or centres in general, and in the end it is also governed by the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in European matters, which enters into force on April 23rd. In this case, if I knew this law as well as you, I might agree with you, but on the other hand, I wonder why I would agree if you could not convince your fellow Members of Parliament and remain alone. From this point of view, I think you're probably overestimating yourself, and I'm afraid I can't tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u226	Let's move on. The word is France Tsukati. A question to the Minister of Finance who is not here. You're still going to ask a question? You will be identified as an oral or written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u227	An oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u229	It's the next one. As we know, Trnovo Hospital was sold or replaced by some unusual procedure, unusual for the sale of state property. As we knew or learned later from the media, Trnovo Hospital was sold without a public invitation to tender with a kind of appreciation that was strange, inappropriately lower than the valuation that was made a few years earlier and similar. However, the Regulation on State-owned sales procedures clearly states that prior to sale it is necessary to define the method of sale, the method to be used and the reasons why the method of sale chosen is most appropriate to achieve the sales objectives. The aim is clear to get as much as possible, the largest purchase for state property, because it is not immeasurable and we must somehow manage it in a cost-effective way. And of course, as we know, there was no document. This definition, this sales programme was not made and, of course, the matter was sold in some way without a call for tender, without an auction directly. At the same time, of course, premises were purchased in Skytičnik, for which the documentation or regulation on the production of public procurement programmes tells exactly how state property is purchased. It stated that an investment programme should be made prior to purchase, namely an investment document containing all the necessary elements and calculations, so that it is possible to assess the financial, market, economic and other consequences of the investment decision on a comprehensive basis. Neither was this document, it was not made, it was bought quietly, quickly, at an unreasonable high price. This question was raised at the time of the intervention of the Minister of Health. The Minister didn't answer those questions. That's why I'm setting him up with the Minister of Finance this time. If he doesn't answer, let the government answer. For God's sake, someone in this country has to be responsible for what they do with state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u230	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, the answer to the next session. And I give the word "magic." Janez Drobnič, question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Hello, ministers and ministers! I am sending a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Dimovski, concerning the granting of disability status and the implementation of disability programmes and the financing of disabled companies on calls. The granting of the status of a disabled company has recently been quite controversial; in fact, the advance recognition and clear criteria for whether or not to grant a status have been abandoned. I'd ask you nicely if you could explain to me what kind of people you are. Next, all these concepts of inclusive disabled companies, where the municipality is involved and they provide for a slightly greater public interest, are no longer taken into account. If we could explain that, too. Mr Minister, I am aware that you do not have any hearing for classrooms, teaching companies, which were once or before a good example of the practice of training and employment of different categories, among them even more difficult to employ, because a greater share is also going into practical work. I don't know why you're shutting down a network of contractors to prepare for a job. You're abandoning these social enterprises. Can you introduce me to any other projects? That's necessary. Why am I asking you? However, because just at the time you took over the minister's mandate, the number of unemployed persons with disabilities and more difficult to employ has increased, more than in the entire period after the independence period. In fact, you are abolishing one right, a good structure for training for integration and normalisation of people who find it difficult to find employment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u232	Thank you for asking. And I give my word to the Minister. Vlado Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u233	Dear Member, of course, it sounds good if there's something the Minister doesn't do if he doesn't do something if he doesn't have a hearing and so on. I understand this more than some opposition attitude as a matter of fact. Because you know it's not like that. In fact, not only have we managed virtually all segments of disabled companies, disabled businesses, rehabilitation and so on, but before being treated, the Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which will in fact regulate the situation in the disability labour market after more than 30 years, as regards rehabilitation. It is not true that we do not have a hearing for so-called integration or social enterprises. It's about to set up such a company in Zasav. Where this is necessary, but not in thought and without concept, of course not. The funds are overvalued for each individual person with disabilities or for a person undergoing rehabilitation to use them in vain or to scatter them. As far as the rehabilitation centres are concerned, it is true that we have received a situation that was not regulated where the structure of the cost of rehabilitation was not clear where individual programmes were ineffective where costs were not recorded. We had to change all of this. In particular, the concept of rehabilitation of people with disabilities is a district centre for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities, where we would like to cover virtually all of Slovenia. It is therefore very important that the cost structure of the individual rehabilitation programme is clear that the rehabilitation programmes are clear and so on. Because it's a job rehabilitation. You, because you are an expert in this field, of course, clearly distinguish between the so-called professional, employment and other rehabilitation, health rehabilitation if possible. Here, in our case, it's employment rehabilitation. We can, of course, deliver to you all, I would say, elements of regulation of this system, which has not been properly regulated in the past. I agree with you. But we have made extraordinary efforts to increase the effectiveness of such programmes and to ensure that the distribution or location of these funds is appropriate. As far as the status of a disabled company is concerned, I can tell you precisely that the conditions to be met are as follows: the company must be organised as an economic company, even a business year must train and employ at least 40% of the disabled persons from all employees in the company. Thirdly, it must train or employ disabled persons who, depending on their disability and the remaining working capacity and on their health status, cannot train and work under the same conditions as other persons with disabilities and must have the permission or prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, when assessing the conditions, it is of course important to take into account the appropriateness of registration, the sufficient number of persons with disabilities employed, the programme must correspond to the abilities and capabilities of persons with disabilities, the company must have professional leadership and other responsible workers, the business and production premises must allow for smooth operation and technical and spatial conditions must be adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities, and the disability undertaking must be known as a self-employed company. These are the conditions under which, or criteria, the conditions and criteria under which the status of the disabled undertaking is granted. And that was in the past, and that's now. So, as far as this is concerned, we believe that, in essence and even in, I think that in the written reply that we have already provided to you from the previous meeting of the National Assembly, at least it has been prepared, the number of disabled companies or companies with the status of a disabled company does not change significantly. Also, as far as it is concerned, I would say, coverage in specific areas in Slovenia is more or less balanced, of course where the need arises. However, it is important that these disabled people feel like productive parts of an individual society. This is why we insist on the programme’s rounding up of individual disabled companies. This, of course, seems very important to us in our assessment. Like I said, it's one of the most important criteria for status. However, as regards rehabilitation, apprenticeships and so on, this is a whole set of forms of rehabilitation and employment for persons with disabilities, where the aim is to reduce the number of unemployed as much as possible and to increase their level of employment in an organised manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u235	Thank you. You correctly recited or told the terms and conditions of your realization. But I'll tell you the specific question where you missed it. You say, even representation throughout Slovenia. In Ribnica, a disabled company was established by an integrated approach and Inles, a co-founder of a disabled company, was set up by another disability company. And you've given this status, although it's not some whole round program, it's dispersion. The second example is Hidria, where you organised a high-successful company, or assigned a status, that it also employs leading persons, just to reduce operating costs. That is why I also asked you because these are specific cases where these principles do not apply. And it would be good for you to tell everyone in advance what are the criteria that you will follow. That's why I'm asking you. Then the structure in the rehabilitation centres or if the accounts were wrong. I agree that you have to control them, or they work in accordance with the law, but they do not have to be destroyed. Encourage them with the same criteria and set up a network. And the concept of the network was established, why isn't it being realized? Why assign successful companies to some beneficial disabled companies - this is a question. At the time this network developed, it went on the basis of the criteria of a higher degree or that there was a very high level of disabled persons and labour intensive industries in some company that were difficult to overcome these structural changes, textiles, leather and other industries. That was the approach. Now this is abandoned - until we have a marriage, the marriage is 30 years old.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u236	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u237	Nice, well, your concern. But I share with you the care of the disabled, especially for the disabled in the first place, as far as disability companies are concerned. There is undoubtedly a criterion for 40% of disabled people employed in such a company throughout the year. It's a criterion, one of the criteria. These criteria have been invariable for some time. And under these criteria, the status of a disabled company is granted. If there's any doubt, we'll check it out. We will check the questions you have asked, although several checks have been carried out by both work inspections and other supervisory services. And as for the issue of consent, they are taken into account - once again, I am talking about the criteria - the conditions and criteria I mentioned earlier. As far as the rehabilitation centers are concerned. The concept exists and will be built gradually, so it will cover even Slovenia evenly. And in fact some of these new ones, so to speak, rehabilitation centres have been set up to implement rehabilitation, employment rehabilitation. And it has to be practically covered by the whole of Slovenia. We have imagined that this concept is such that the regional units are practically where the regional units of the employment agency are, in fact, also there as a rule, not within the area unit, but also in this segment of the rehabilitation centres that carry out employment rehabilitation activities. And there it is important what type of rehabilitation is carried out for each type of disability. Because we are preparing a disabled person to take up a job or a job. That's why it's about employment rehabilitation. You know that there are different types of rehabilitations, what I've said before. And it is, of course, important, in essence, that it is very clear or precise what kind of rehabilitation is actually carried out within these centres. So here I think I'm actually repeating what I said before. Of course, conceptual approaches can also be different. And this also exists in theory in practice in fact. It is also possible for different countries of the European Union to have different concepts of rehabilitation and de facto. I agree with that. That is why, of course, it is a matter of policy to essentially take over or upgrade such a type of employment rehabilitation that is most appropriate, to say so, a concept that has been set up in a given country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u238	Thank you. Jože Tanko gets the floor to ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. And I say hello to everyone! In early April, I think there was a meeting of the Interstate Commission to monitor the implementation of the Interstate Treaty on the Krka Nuclear Power Plant. This included two topics, the content of the programme for the decommissioning and disposal of low and medium-sized radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the NEK, and the response of the Slovenian side to the request of the Croatian electricity industry to resolve the dispute on a peaceful path with regard to the unsupplied electricity to HEP for the period from 1 July 2002 to 18 April last year. I would like to refer my question to the following facts. The Interstate Treaty is drawn up in such a way as to provide for a deadline for its validity on 1 July 2002. Until then, neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Slovenian National Assembly approved the contract. NEK started supplying electricity to Croatia on 18 April 2003. Croatia has certain requirements for Slovenia due to the lack of electricity for the period from 1.7.2002 to 18.4.2003. I'm asking: What is the legal basis for the Minister to have in principle publicly recognised part of the Slovenian debt to Croats? Who is responsible for the Slovenian debt to the Croats recognised by the minister and who will pay him? Secondly, Croatia has certain obligations under the Interstate Treaty, which it has not fulfilled in the public record. Such an obligation is, for example, the adoption of appropriate rules to provide funding to finance the decommissioning of NEKs and to dispose of radioactive waste and spent fuel. The funds must be collected in a special fund. The fund must be raised in the amount provided for in the programme, which must be confirmed by the Interstate Commission. The programme has been prepared by the Section and has not yet been confirmed by the Interstate Commission, despite the fact that it should already be confirmed under the provisions of the Treaty. Minister Kopač supported the proposal that the Commission would not approve the programme until July this year. I'm asking the minister: Why, as Head of the Slovenian Part of the Interstate Commission, did he not ensure that the provisions of the Interstate Treaty were complied with? And why did he not require the Croatian minister to comply with the contractual obligations regarding the establishment of the appropriate fund? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u240	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. I got two questions, if I understand. The first is why I said that Slovenia was responsible for something when the Interstate Treaty was not ratified. I have stated that Slovenia is irrefutablely responsible for the period when the Interstate Treaty has already been established, both in Croatia and in Slovenia. That's from March 11, 2003. From 11 March to 18 April, Slovenia should supply half of the electricity from the Croatian nuclear power plant, but it is not. Simply because it was necessary to agree on technical details when this could start first. And we also had to buy alternative energy. Therefore, for this good month and a few more days, we can unquestionably conclude that this debt exists. The time before this is, of course, a new interstate treaty and negotiations with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. We have rejected the HEP request, which was, I think, about $54 million, as absolutely exaggerated and calculated on completely unrealistic assumptions. It is true, however, that in the past days, 15 April, i.e. 5 days ago, the Assembly of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant approved the 2003 annual report, where it also found a realised profit from regular operation throughout the calendar year 2003, where it was confirmed that this profit was shared for the whole of 2003 by both parties. Consequently, I understand that Croatia itself agreed that the period from 1 January 2003 to 19.4. last year was formally covered. We therefore have an agreement on the time between 1.7.2002 and 31.12.2002, which can be agreed in two ways. One is a new inter-State treaty, which must be ratified by both parliaments and has not even come to the beginning of negotiations, and the other is, of course, arbitration initiated by HEP as a foreign investor on the basis of an energy charter ratified by both Croatia and Slovenia. Even this path has not yet been decided by HEP, although I have read in Croatian newspapers that it is planned very shortly. Of course, we are not afraid of these arbitrations because we believe that the arguments are mostly on our side. However, as regards the second question, I must say that the Interstate Treaty provides that the decommissioning programme must be carried out within one year of its entry into force, that is until 11.3. this year. This programme was actually made and delivered to members of the Interstate Commission on 10 March this year.It was made by the "special waste agency" from Zagreb and by the Radioactive Waste Agency from Ljubljana. We also discussed this decommissioning programme at the Interstate Commission in early April. We agreed to adopt it in July this year, and we need to know that Croatia has a different procedure for adopting this programme. Under their internal law, they need prior confirmation in their Parliament; this is not necessary for us and may be decided by the Slovenian part of the interstate commission. Since it is unrealistic to expect the neighbouring Republic of Croatia to carry out a complete procedure from 10 March to 11 March this year, from the report to the hearing in their Parliament, to the hearing on their government and to the feedback on the interstate commission, of course all of this cannot be done in one day, we agreed to tolerate this three-month delay. However, if the procedure had not been carried out at that time - there is plenty of time for it there by the middle of the year this year - then we will point out this as a breach of the treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u242	Thank you very much. My friend Mamić. Sorry, buddy Tanko, it's not Mamić's turn yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u243	Thank you. Look, first of all, I was a little surprised that the minister admitted that some details had not been arranged. At the same time, he said that we had granted the Croats debt for the period when the delivery details were not regulated. But this is a mutual problem, a common problem between the two countries, both groups on both sides. And we automatically credit the Croats with debt. Secondly, there was no answer as to who was responsible for the Slovenian debt to Croats - you still owe me. However, I would like to say that I have the feeling that the government and the ministry in this joint project with Croatia are in fact extremely inactive, because it does not strictly demand the fulfilment of Croatia's obligations to the joint project on our side, together with the landfill. I think it would be right for someone responsible to ask themselves at times how the responsible national or state policy of one of the neighbouring countries works, if national interest or state interest is to be protected. What would happen if the Slovenian side could afford such a nonchalant, obvious game of interstate agreements? The second is that Croatia does not pay into the decommissioning fund and shows no desire to take over its share of low and medium radioactive waste. The problem is also on our side, because there is no defined location and there are no conditions likely if this is not done in time for these things to begin to be regulated in 2013. There are more open questions and a lot of burdens on our side as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond to this part?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u245	There will be open questions as long as we are working together, but I consider them once as non-problems. Implementation of this joint venture, co-management of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant is well under way. We must say that in December last year a five-year investment plan or a five-year business plan was adopted and that it was adopted, of course, on our part, to ensure stable operation and further development of the capacity of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. As for the statements made by individual Croatian ministers saying that they will not take radioactive waste or low and medium-level radioactive waste to their area, I must say that this is completely irrelevant. Croatia has ratified the Interstate Treaty, where this obligation, if not previously found, is evident. And that's their national obligation. Ministers can say anything and the fact remains that the obligation ratified by the Croatian Parliament remains. I therefore estimate that there are no significant problems here. However, as for the responsibilities that you have highlighted, I must say that it is definitely not with the Minister responsible, that it is me, not with the Government, because the government has proposed the ratification of the Interstate Treaty in due time, and you have delayed this procedure in Parliament and therefore I cannot say that Parliament is responsible, but this responsibility is certainly not with the Government and not with the competent minister, but it is more abstract in nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u246	I give my word to my colleague Aloys Sok. I didn't understand you. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u247	You know, Mr Vice-President, I have no wish for a replica, but I would still suggest to the National Assembly that we hold a discussion at the next meeting on the Minister's response in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's how much I think I still have the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u248	My friend Tanko, I don't understand you very well. I'm sorry. Your proposal will be written down and we will decide on this tomorrow in the context of the first votes. Now I'm going to give my word to my colleague, Aloise Sok. I suggest you ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u249	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister asked me to replace the questions to Minister Gabru, who is not, then I will ask the Minister for Environment and Space a very short question. I will ask him about the right to invest in the Republic's water tax. The question, however, relates to the Radence Congregation. Perhaps it would be more appropriate for my fellow Member, Ferri Horvat, to ask this question, but they asked me and asked me if I could provide them with this answer. I'd like to ask you a question like this. A national water tax was collected in the Radence municipality. Of course, not only in the congregation of Radence but also in other congregations. According to the contract between Radenska Ekos d.o.o. and the municipality of Radenci in the past five years have thus raised and invested about 65 million Slovenian tolars of financial resources, namely the construction of a cleaning plant. Radenska Ecos d.o.o. she performed as an authorised investor of the Radenci municipality. She prepared projects, construction permits, and became the owner of the utility cleaning plant. Now the Radenska Share Company intends to sell Radensko Ecos, according to its subsidiary. It also included in the assets the value of the funds collected from the Republic tax. Therefore, please answer: Does the Municipality of Radenci have the right to these funds? Who is the owner of the equipment from this address, which means that it is built into a cleaning plant? I think that the answer will also be more important because similar problems are faced in other environments. However, I think the question was clear and the answer to this dilemma is quite simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Minister, I give you my word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. In the Municipality of Radenci, Radenska Ekos d.o.o. has been carrying out a public service since 2000. The decree adopted by the municipality states that it is the manager of facilities and facilities for the drainage and cleaning of waste and precipitation waters until the procedure for the selection of concessionaires and, of course, the conclusion of a contract with the concessionaire is carried out, until that time, the manager of this company is Ekos Radenci d.o.o. We have found that after four years, the congregation has not granted a concession to anyone. We assess at the Ministry that the implementation of the public service is not satisfactorily resolved. Ekos Radenci d.o.o., which actually performs public service activities and is authorised by the municipality to carry out investment works, also carried out investments, while your question relates to the ownership of what the company submits on behalf of the municipality. Here our answer is very clear. These funds could not have been in the past and could never in the future be invested in something that then becomes or remains the property of this private company. In this case, State aid would be unlawful. If, otherwise, this private company invests in the name and on behalf of the municipality a State tax asset, it may be on behalf of and on behalf of the municipality, but it must be on behalf of the municipality. What is built from these means must be the property of the congregation. Otherwise, the municipality is obliged to pay these funds into the state budget, which is the penalty under the existing regulation, this applies in 2003 because the dispute is now at this point, and of course also applies to the future. If ownership of the infrastructure, we gave two months of time to the municipality to agree and to clarify these relations with Radenska Ekos d.o.o., and if the ownership of the infrastructure is not adequately resolved, it will be necessary to refund the fee even if it was invested in an investment that is not currently owned by the municipality, pardon, we gave them three months' time. If they fail to do so, they will have to pay the fee back and, of course, they will not be able to apply the exemption for this fee in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Jožef Jerovšek gets the floor for a question to the Minister without a department responsible for coherent regional development, Mrs Kovaceva.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u253	A nice welcome to the rest of the government, to colleagues and colleagues. Last week, Prime Minister Anton Rop was on a propaganda pre-election visit to Maribor. Since Maribor, the whole of Podravje and the wider East Styria have not been able to dig out of development problems for ten years and most economic indicators are significantly worse than in other parts of the country, especially high unemployment and very low GDP, I would expect the Prime Minister to serve with concrete and realistic programmes to solve structural problems. In Maribor, the headquarters of Holding of Slovenian power plants was taken years ago, and the announcement of the establishment of a financial pillar within the framework of the NKB, announced by the Prime Minister at the time of taking over the post of Prime Minister, is not being realized. In doing so, we are faced with serious attempts by financial power centres to transfer the ownership of the Maribor insurance company from Maribor to the capital, and the Prime Minister is pleading against this to the disobedient finance minister. Despite the fact that Maribor is far behind the New City, Celje and other regional centres, and despite poor economic indicators, the Prime Minister and the mayor of the municipal municipality, Mr. Sovič, after the talks, spent unfounded optimism, as reported by the rapporteurs. That's why I'm asking the government: What are the government's specific financial programmes to stop negative macroeconomic trends? How many direct incentives were given in 2003 and how many this year were dedicated to Maribor, the Podravska region and other regions of eastern Slovenia? Does the government have concrete proposals and plans to revive the industrial zone to the former TAM? Why did the government not intervene on time in the miserable management of the Maribor vehicle factory, where 3 billion state funds were invested, but even made it possible to pay the director an annual prize of 600 000 euros for asset management, as the contract was signed? Does the current leadership have such a management contract? What will the government do to bring back nearly a billion tolls of funds robbed of bankruptcy masses, TAMs, Electronics, Metals and Maribor Press to corrupt creditors? Such financial robberies also weaken the developmental power of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Member, thank you for this question. Today, I have to limit myself to the part that I feel I can answer with the relevant answers, but for the part of the questions that have already been asked and that are not within my competence, I can only commit myself to answering in writing. Of course, first of all, I would like to say that the development or economic restructuring of such destabilizing regions as has happened to the natural region is, of course, a long process and has not been resolved anywhere in the world very quickly. It thus refers to new investments in the economic sector, investments needed in the field of human resources and employment, environmental and transport infrastructure and so on. This is a whole set of activities that have to take place over a period of time, in order for a region that is going economically backward to rise again above the average. In Maribor or Podravje, if I speak wider, it has happened precisely that today it is still at 85% of the average of Slovenian development, despite the fact that we have recently been able to record certain positive movements. Let me only remind you of the unemployment rate, which has fallen to 16.2 in the last year of the past 17.6%. I'm talking about a registered unemployment rate. I must say that it follows from our 2002 report on regional development that this region has received a total of direct and indirect incentives of 43 thousand 319 SIT per capita. This is 35% more than, say, this same data for the most developed region. It is true, however, that most of these incentives have been granted on the basis of horizontal policies, which, of course, have been adopted, including in Parliament, and implemented by individual resources. From the point of view of direct regional incentives, we have three resources at our disposal. On the one hand, it is domestic budgetary resources, and it is also the so-called pre-accession assistance of Phara, economic social cohesion, and the pre-accession assistance of Phara, cross-border cooperation. This region received 379 million direct incentives last year from direct development incentives. Here, of course, I must point out that this is the only region that has not yet been able to adopt a regional development programme, so according to the current legislation, only 70% of the direct development incentives that it would have had if the programme had already been adopted and the priorities had already been set. Unfortunately, I have to say, and here is why we are also changing the law, because all these direct incentives were not intended for projects that would encourage economic development in this region, but only for projects related to local infrastructure in 2003. In fact, we do not have a major impact here because we know that these direct incentives are being allocated according to the programming principle on the basis of proposals from the region itself. For this year, 2004, this region has 492 million SITs available and will use them again for local, road and municipal infrastructure, not for economic development. According to these contents, this region differs significantly from other Slovenian regions already in the past year, and especially in this year, it has mainly earmarked funds for the so-called economic infrastructure. During the same period, approximately 1 billion tolars were allocated to the region under international pre-accession aid, which encouraged the development of an economic infrastructure which is the basis for restructuring, the Styrian Technology Park, the entrepreneurial incubator, the restructuring of the Chamber of Commerce and so on. From the title of the single programming document, the region registered 30 billion development projects. After our internal incision, it's somehow indicative of 12 billion. And here the funds will mainly be directed to business zones, to the development and support of clusters, from those very small to larger clusters, to the technological parks of the regions, to the Maribor International Land-Logistic Centre and to the Maribor Airport Infrastructure. These are key projects, which we believe will, in the coming years, also implement some of the projects from the past, which were only on paper, but unfortunately there were no real ones for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič has the floor for a question to the Minister, who is not here, and the answer will be given at the next oral meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Development Company, the successor to the 1993 Development Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, is in liquidation and slowly completes its work. During its existence, it owned and managed large amounts of social capital, companies or other legal persons. The Act on the conclusion of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the SRD provides that social capital transferred to the SRD shall also be regarded as property of natural and legal persons at home and abroad arising from the operation of former social enterprises or other legal persons registered in the Republic of Slovenia that have been reshapeed if that property has not been taken into account in the opening balance sheet on the day1.1.1993. The law provides that the SRD and the government are obliged to take measures to identify, trace and seize this property. The SRD and the government are obliged to prevent any business with this property, its transfer and its disposal. In view of the fact that there is still wild property and the location of former social property through a handful of people who have been and are in the right place at the right time, but not by chance because they or their fathers have already met in the previous regime, I ask the government about these measures by which it protected this property. What, according to the legal order, did she do to prevent this? The law also states that a person who fails to respect that law and to himself and to someone else unlawfully gains a high value of property shall commit a crime punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 5 years. I wonder if anyone has been convicted under this law. When I led an investigative committee in the previous term, we encountered, for example, Smelt, who, through the Swiss company Smel Intag, was spending money on Swiss banks, which had disappeared illegally. Because of irregularities, proceedings were brought before a court in Switzerland, so I ask: What is happening there now? I'm also asking what's going on with this procedure. And the key question is: Where did Smelt's money go, and what measures did the government take to prevent the disappearance of this property? I would like to receive an oral answer to the question raised at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u258	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Like the Rules of Procedure, I expect the Minister to be present at the next meeting. Moving on, the next question will be asked by the Minister of Health, Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am asking the following question to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra. Every expert and layman knows that proper diet for diabetics means medicine. With proper and effective food and body-friendly diet, diabetes can save lives, deal with worse consequences that are slowly progressing, and basically stem from diabetes, such as foot amputations, loss of vision, and so on. Proper nutrition can control the disease and lead a quality life for a long time. Nevertheless, I feel that no one cares that there are not enough diabetic products on the shelves of self-service stores, let alone that they are subsidised and could be available for any pocket. This would still be cheaper than medicine, surgery and wheelchairs. Question to the Minister: When will they give greater attention to diabetic diet, purchasing opportunities and subsidising them accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u260	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer. Please. The microphone, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u262	Mr President, Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. It also allows me to speak in Parliament from time to time about the orientation of this ministry, namely health and prevention. Allow me to say, there is no category of diet for diabetics or diet for diabetics. The profession is not recommended, professional associations, domestic and foreign, specifically counsel it. Let me explain why. Products that are now on shelves and which are declared by these products to be diabetic products are essentially conditioned products, pastry products, substitutes or similar products such as candy, chocolate and other sweets. In fact, they could be compared to low- nicotine cigarettes if they were to be subsidized for smoking or, say, low-alcoholic beverages to be offered to children or adults. In fact, a healthy diet for diabetics is something that every citizen should enjoy, even if it is not diabetic. Our goal would be that all citizens, together with diabetics, enjoy enough, that is not too much calories, we have too much calories, not too little calories, to eat less fatty food to avoid concentrated sugar and salt in food. In this way, diabetes, if it were to maintain normal weight, maintain or adhere to what we say in common is healthy diet, if it were physically active and, of course, everything else that we say today is risk factors, then this diabetic would have no higher costs or costs than other citizens, because unfortunately today vegetables are more expensive than meat and fat products. Let me mention that these conditioner products, called diabetic products, do not contain sugar and in some ways, I will say, allow some enjoyment without sugar, but contain all the fats like pastry products. So let me say it again, specifically, we're even counseling. Of course, I can understand that those who, after all, want to live in their otherwise desolate lives if they are to be granted another product that tastes like this sweetness, but clearly, is not subject to subsidies. After all, if you already need to eat a piece of chocolate, you can, usually chocolate is half the smaller, now of course I don't like to do some propaganda for it, but instead buy a very expensive product. In fact, manufacturers found a market niche and I'm sorry, but I think the future will bring this back, so that regulation will be reversed so that such products should not bear the name of diabetic products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u263	Thank you. Mag. Janez Petty Officer gets the word. He's not here anymore. France Tsukati has also left. Alojz Sok has a question for Dr Slavko Gabra, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who is not, but will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, honourable ministers and fellow Members, what remains of us. However, I would like to ask Mr Gabr a question, and at the same time I ask him to give me an oral answer to this question at the next meeting. In fact, I asked him about the situation in Slovenian education. As a citizen and as a Member, I am concerned about the increasing number of entries in Slovenian media about what is happening in Slovenian schools. I'm thinking mainly about the high school area here. At that time, I also pointed out that most of the politically active managers, I repeat, are from two political options: the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Minister Gaber then gave me a very harsh response, asking me to prove it or to apologize. It is likely that our controversy here in the National Assembly has encouraged many, who then began to tell me the names as well. Today I have here a list of 33 primary and secondary school principals' names, once again, who were candidates for political party lists or are political officials today. Among them are none of the species, such as the Slovenian People's Party or New Slovenia. This is not bad if the directors are running, but of course in the political democratic system, the plural system raises the question of why. This question of mine also had a local response, because one of those who actually stepped on his tail with this question and, as the Slovenian proverb says, "When you step on the tail, the cat is now very much organised against me and even refers to the meeting of the municipal world. I would like to ask the Minister of Education what he thinks about such a way of political pluralism. Why does he feel that way? I would like to ask him if he is prepared as Minister to give up the position of co-rapporteur in the process of electing directors. We know that the directors are appointed by the board of institutions, while the minister is the one who gives his consent to the appointment. Without the Minister's consent, no principal or primary school, secondary or other level may be appointed. I would like the Minister to answer my question orally here in Parliament, so that after he is present, I can ask him another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko has a question for the Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! In accordance with the Law on Public Servants, the Council of Officials is concerned with the implementation of the selection of officials in positions, namely, Directors-General, Secretaries-General, heads of bodies in the composition of ministries, heads of government services, heads of administrative units, and perhaps others. The procedures shall be carried out by a special competitive commission designated by the official council on a case-by-case basis. The Commission shall, upon completion of its work, propose to the competent minister or to the Secretary-General a list of candidates who fulfil the conditions and who, according to their professional competence, are eligible for this position. Among these candidates, the official responsible for the position shall select the one most appropriate in his opinion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already called on the Prime Minister to wait for the state-level elections by means of the procedures for appointing officials, but this call has come across a deaf ear. On the proposal of the Government or the ministries of the field, the official council has thus initiated procedures for the appointment of new officials in the highest positions of office. Thus, a number of procedures have been concluded, which have received considerable attention in the public, such as the appointment of a new Police Director, and several procedures have been repeated, such as a call for new Director Durs. I wonder: How many calls for officials have been made available so far? How many procedures have been completed and how many procedures have been opened, is it said that the selection of candidates by the competition commission has been completed and the decision of the selection officer is not yet in place? What are these cities, and what kind of invitations do you intend to make? At present, there are performers of duties in these positions whose term of office expires on 30 June of this year. I would also like to know what you will do if all procedures are not completed by that date.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Secretary General, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Although I think that much of this issue does not belong to the Secretary-General, it does not belong to the government, but rather to the official council, which is not a government body, does not interfere with the government, even less under the influence of the Secretary-General of the Government. Somehow in memory, although I can help a little, from memory and from my information, my knowledge of things, I think that 42 public calls have been made to gather officials in position and 9 internal calls. However, the procedures that have been designated or concluded by appointment are 28 according to my records, which, of course, are not official and I am not authorized to give them. Otherwise, I can tell you what the legal regime is like. The invitation to tender shall be published, and you have already cited Article 64 of the Act. Although the decision contained in this invitation to tender does not need to be specifically explained. There is also no decision to make, but there is no time limit within which candidates should be informed of this choice or of the final choice. However, the fact is that the proceedings are ongoing and until the choice is made, the procedure is not completed. In the meantime, if another government comes to appoint other officials, it is only logical that the decision will be left to the official who will then have the appropriate powers to do so. This means that he will be in a position to be allowed to propose to the government for appointment of officials in office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u269	Thank you very much. My friend Tanko is not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u270	I can't really be satisfied with the answer. I've sent the questions in time, and that's essential before the deadline. The fact is that, according to the rules of procedure, apart from the ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government, it is not possible to ask anyone else. The fact is that there are probably some shortcomings in these procedural or substantive changes to the legislation, at least in response, which are likely to result in shortcomings. Members in these further procedures will probably be deprived in a number of other areas of quality response. It is interesting that you did not answer the question of how many of those procedures were pending when the competition commissions did their work and the responsible person, that is to say, the Minister or anyone else, did not make the choice. You mentioned that there is no time limit for choice, but I am interested. From this information I have, it seems to me that some procedures have been going on for three months. And even though there was only one candidate who came to the designated place, no choice was made. I would also like to know about this part of the question that I have asked you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Bandell, you have another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u272	First of all, I have to say no to the obvious that I haven't answered anything. You can also ask me why Zlatko Zahović is no longer playing in the football team, and unfortunately I cannot give you an answer. You can also ask me, I don't know what kind of name the Member will give to his son and so on. I won't give you an answer either. I told you nicely, the official council is not an organ subordinate to the government and is even less subordinate to the general secretary of the government. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the function I perform, I can only answer questions concerning my work in the government. I don't have any data either, and I've also told you more or less some numbers because I don't keep records. If you want to ask the official council a question, you just have to address it to the official council, not the government. Otherwise, the regime is clear, I don't know why I could answer questions about why some official didn't choose the candidate that the Special Competition Commission proposed to him. There is also no need for this official to explain this, for this is after all the legal right of the official. Of course, any errors in this selection process can only be dealt with by candidates who are deemed inappropriate by the Special Competition Commission. I don't have a record of cases like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Branko Kelemina would be in line for the question he addressed to the Minister of Transport, but he is not here, because Branka Kelemina. That's why I'm going to give my word to Ivan Mamić. Question of new Justice Minister Zdenki Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome Madam Minister, the other ministers, especially those who have been here since yesterday. At the same time, I would like them to cooperate well these few months, which remains with the Members. Let's get started. Madam Minister, I have one question that will certainly not be provocative, not difficult. In 1997, a fast road along the Vipavska Valley was built and some landowners were opposed to giving land for the price Dars offered. The matter went to trial for possession. To this day, those people have not received the money paid. I've dealt with this before. Dars told me the money was provided. Looks like the local court in Ajdovska doesn't get the time or I don't know what it is to keep this thing going. I think seven years is too long and I appeal to you that if you hope that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible, because people have already given up not only on Dars, but also on the state, on Members and Ministers and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u275	Thank you very much. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Mamić and the others present. The Sectional Services of the Ministry of Justice have prepared an answer to your question, namely, the Building Lands Act, which provided for the possibility of decommissioning and payment of compensation, entered into force in 1997, but this year no request was received by the District Court in Ajdovska, which is competent to decide on these matters. 30 applications for discharge were received in 1998, in 1999 24 and in 2002 15, a total of 69. By the time it was reported, it only solved 36 cases, which is slightly more than 50%. Surely we cannot be satisfied with such a result. Among these unsolved cases are certainly the citizens who have turned to you for help. The reasons that led to such a poor result were investigated, and the court states that before 1997, a land-based commotion was carried out, which was not included in the land-book. Therefore, the land which had been the subject of decommissioning for the construction of the motorway was in a position where they could not determine either the position of the land book or their status or whether it was a building or agricultural land. This, in turn, has caused a problem with evaluation, which is entrusted to valuers. These are the reasons given by the court. On the question of how these backlogs will end, I note that the District Court in Ajdovščina is included in the Supreme Court's programme to remedy backlogs in the field of the Land Book. So, help is offered. One position of referee has been approved, which is what the Ministry of Justice has ensured through systemisation, but reports that there has been no money, and so far no work has been carried out. As of 1.1.2005, the Court will also be joined by a Judge for Offences from Ajdovščina and will also count on the appointment of a referee who has actually been promised. This is the measure which, in the Court's view, gives hope that these cases will be resolved within a reasonable time. As Minister of Justice, I am aware that we will have to go to administrative control and verify that these promises will also be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u277	Thanks for the answer. Please, Comrade Mamić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u278	I still -- I can give them a magnetogram -- I can't say, yes, it will be solved in one year or, I don't know. Can you at least tell me roughly when that would be?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u279	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u280	I'll personally check how long the court considers it possible. They're talking about a reasonable time. That means a reasonable deadline for a land book is one year. I hope it'll be sooner. I would not be able to give you an accurate answer at this time, but perhaps by the next meeting or in writing, because this is really the most interesting and most desirable answer for your questioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We're on the last question, from the previous session, which was due to former Minister Franci But Maria Possonec, our colleague. The new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, will respond. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The question was how to solve the problem of slaughtering animals in force in northeastern Slovenia. Initially, I would like to explain some of the basic provisions and regulations relating to slaughtering sick animals and slaughtering in force. The slaughter of sick animals means slaughtering those animals who have become sick of diseases that do not make slaughter prohibited, which means that there is no risk of spreading infectious diseases. A sick animal may be sent to a slaughterhouse for slaughter only after examination by a veterinarian, with a document or a travel agent which informs the veterinarian of the type of disease and the treatment of animals. The slaughter of sick animals shall be carried out in particular for this activity by approved separate establishments, contemplative slaughterhouses which may also be within the approved slaughterhouse. In most cases it is a slaughter of animals where treatment has not been successful, the health and physical condition of animals is poor, and meat derived from such animals, if of course medically appropriate, is very poor for human consumption. In Europe, the meat of sick animals for human consumption is virtually no longer used, but it is mainly the raw material from which they produce food for meat-eating animals. Of course, the accession of Slovenia to the European Union has also led to significant changes in the field of these rules. So far, it has been allowed to slaughter injured animals without prior veterinary examination. However, by slaughtering animals in an emergency, by new regulations due to an accident or to serious physiological and functional problems, it is intended to slaughter animals that can only be directed by a veterinarian. This means a certain procedure whereby the owner of the animal must first call the veterinarian who decides to take further action in relation to the injured animal. The slaughter shall normally take place outside the slaughterhouse, as it is also not permitted under European animal protection standards to transport injured animals under the rules. For further processing and processing, the carcase in force of slaughtered animals outside the slaughterhouse must be brought into the slaughterhouse by means of a veterinary guide. By transporting the carcass of the slaughtered animal instead of the lively injured animal, the suffering of the animals is prevented, irrespective of the distance. The official veterinarian in the slaughterhouse shall decide on the definitive use of meat of the slaughtered animal. Now, here's a few words about the procedure. The process is, of course, modified by the adoption of the European acquis and is much more demanding. This has not been invented by veterinarians in Slovenia, this is simply a rule that we have to follow if in fact we want to trade uninterruptedly with food of animal origin in other areas. It is true, however, honourable Member, that the situation regarding the slaughter of sick and injured animals in Pomour is indeed not favourable. There are only two slaughterhouses in the region - in Murska Sobota and Gornji Radgona. Both are modern slaughterhouses, one of which is approved only for slaughtering pigs according to European Union standards. That's Upper Radgona. A slaughterhouse of an industrial type in a linear manner is not suitable for slaughtering sick and damaged animals because simply because of the system of technology is not suitable for slaughtering individual animals. The slaughter of sick animals is permitted, but after slaughtering all healthy animals. The additional complication is once again a European standard, which we have also taken over in our regulations, that meat consumption of the sick and slaughtered animals is permitted only on the local market. Therefore, it must not be dismembered or processed in a slaughterhouse approved for trading on the common European market. Very strict standards have been set here, for various reasons I must say. Such meat must be marked differently from the rest of the meat in the slaughterhouse for the purposes of identification. Both slaughterhouses in Pomour are approved for trading on the common European market. That's what they say. It's another problem. The situation was also due to the fact that several years ago in Murska Sobota there was a slaughterhouse of Pomurke for the slaughter of sick animals on Lendava Road. This must be familiar to you, practically in the middle of town. This slaughterhouse was actually closed because the basic hygiene of slaughter was violated. In particular, the conditions concerning the premises, equipment and animal slaughter facilities have not been met. The basic protection of animals in slaughter was not provided and the establishment did not technically comply with the basic conditions laid down. Veterinary action did not want to make the situation of slaughtering sick animals in the region more difficult, but we simply need to stick to the legal procedures adopted, which also concern the protection of consumer health of meat and the protection of animals against suffering. The operator of the activity in the Pomurka slaughterhouse was prepared to restore and provide a hygienic slaughter if the municipalities were interested in the service of the slaughterhouse and perhaps the state would help with the completion of the investment. Since there was no such cooperation, the rest of the slaughterhouse was closed. What are the possible solutions? Our view is that it is necessary to build slaughterhouses with less capacity, with more investors involved. I think that certain interviews must also be conducted here with the help of the agri-agricultural chamber. We hear several times that our regulations are too demanding to build a smaller slaughterhouse, but the rules are exactly the same as those in Europe. Following the example of some other countries, for example, Austria, through which we like to imitate ourselves, is able to build a local slaughterhouse by pooling stakeholders who should participate in the investment by their own resources and by mutual principles ensure co-ownership and, of course, worship the right in such an establishment. But we could also slaughter other users as a favor. The Ministry of Agriculture has supported such projects with grants, but of course it is not possible to expect the state to fully build slaughterhouses at the request of owners. Smaller capacity should also be included in the construction of slaughterhouses in regions where there is actually a need for slaughter. The government regulation on agricultural structural policy and rural development policy, published in the Official Journal 32/2004, now provides for options and provides for a call for co-financing of investments in the food processing industry. This call is expected to be published in June this year and 50% of the funds are to be made available by the European Union. I know you're not entirely satisfied with this answer, but this is the only option that exists in our country. Therefore, the integration of stakeholders in the construction of such craft slaughterhouses, which would reduce this length of transport and reduce costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Maria Possonec would like another supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I must certainly thank you, Mr Minister, that you have been so kind as to mediate this. Therefore, the question raised is not that people hear how someone cares about them, but that this problem will be solved. To be honest, I can't see the way or the distance is the same. I believe that this is the way between the four eyes to talk about it. In any case, the Ministry must resolve, the Ministry must take the initiative, because this is the problem of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Please turn off the microphone. I will end this point because we owe this point some decision that we will take tomorrow in the context of the vote. I thank the Prime Minister, all ministers and ministers, in particular all four new ministers and new ministers, who, after a difficult day yesterday, have also insisted on these questions until the end of the night. I hereby adjourn the 43rd extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I welcome you all very much, and tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will resume our work. Thank you very much.
