ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're just before the 42nd emergency session. I have invoked it on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of our Rules of Procedure. Some of our colleagues and colleagues will be away today. These are colleagues: Onion, Germich, Horvat, Jakič, Jelinčič, Kangler, Kavčič, Moge, Peterle, Poszonceva Pukšič. From 17:00 onwards, colleague Kavticnik, from 15:00 onwards, colleague Kontic, from 17:00 onwards colleague Štemberger and from 16:00 onwards colleague Švagan. You have all remained in the hall or in the Assembly Hall and I thank you for your attention, because today, as you know, we will make the opposite decision. At the end of each point, we will move on to the vote, which means, of course, that we must be careful, both in the course of agenda items and in the decisions themselves. First, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will move on to a set of agendas. We agreed on the agenda at the last college sessions. I have not received any proposals for enlargement or withdrawal of items from the agenda. So, I can see that we've had enough in the hall to make decisions about the agenda. First of all, I ask you politely if you can check the voting devices so that, as has happened many times lately, there is a warning that they are not working. Please, is everything okay? No comments. So, we're going to move on to a decision on the agenda, just like you got by reference. We're voting on the agenda. There are certainly more of us in the hall than the number on the "display" shows, and I will once again invite all colleagues and colleagues to come to the debate room. There's definitely more of us in the hall than the number on the "display". I'll put the 42nd extraordinary session on the agenda next time. If the vote fails this time, I will order a 10-minute recess, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and we will decide on it at 2:15. We're voting on the agenda. Please. There are almost 60 of us in the hall. Excuse me? It's working. We'll continue at 2.10 p.m. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to come to the National Assembly. We'll vote in five minutes for the third time. I'm sure we've had enough in the hall now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u2	We're in the middle of setting the agenda. I think there have been enough colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber before, but this has not been demonstrated by the vote. This is the third time we have decided after the Rules of Procedure. I'll ask for your attention. Since some of you have now come to the hall, they especially ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We'll move on to the agenda, as you received by reference. We decide on the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 45 in, one in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set and we can move on to the points. For the order of the points, as you probably know, we reached an agreement within the college, so that there are no subsequent changes to this plan. We will start with the 25th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on railway safety. Once again, just so that there are no misunderstandings when the points are finished, without a time delay, without a break, we will immediately go to the vote on them and so on until the end of today's working day. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Rail Transport. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on railway safety was submitted by the Government. Would any of the government's representatives like a word for an additional explanation? Please, mag. The Prince, the Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! We have before us a law on amendments and additions to the law on railway safety. The Railway Safety Act has been in force since 24 September 2000. Following the adoption of the Act, Council of Europe Directives No 16 on rail network interoperability have entered into force. Later, we also passed a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, which introduced a directive of the authorised operator and the railway system manager, and also passed a law on the construction of buildings All of these three laws or all of these three bases are important and on the basis of this we had to draft a new law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u4	This was a brief supplementary explanation. The draft law was addressed by the competent committee, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Does the President want a word or a colleague of Malover as a rapporteur? Please present the report of the Committee and then we will proceed with the work; I do not have any representatives announced Please, Comrade Malovre. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railway Safety. At its 51st meeting, on 4.2.2004, 53rd meeting, held on 31.3.2004 and 54th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on railway safety submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for a regular legislative procedure. Representatives of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia and Holding of Slovenian Railways d.o.o. also participated in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to representatives of the Law and Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on 30.12.2003. The Committee also adopted comments by the Slovenian Railway Holding. In its opinion, the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia comments on Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16, 19, 25, 27, 30, 31, 39, 40, 48, 50, 51 and 52. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. He also accepted his amendments. The amendments were tabled by Mr Janko Weber, Article 2 of the four amendments, Article 3 and Article 9 of the two amendments, Article 11, Article 15 and Article 16 of the two amendments, Article 17 and Article 19 of the two amendments, Article 28 of the two amendments, Article 29 and Article 31 of the three amendments, and Article 51 of the Aloise Sok, Article 2, Article 11, Article 14, Article 19 and Article 40 and Article 4 of the Group of Members, Article 2, Article 3, Article 6, Article 9, Article 11, Article 15, Article 25, Article 31, Article 37 and Article 40. On 30.3.2004, Ambassador Janko Weber amended his amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has adopted the following amendments: Mr Janko Vebra at Articles 2, 29, 36, 40, 41 and 49; and the four groups of Members at Articles 2, 9, 25, 27 and 40. However, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment did not adopt the amendments by Mr Alojs Sok to Articles 2, 11 and 14. With the adoption of the amendments by the Members or the amendments of the Committee, the immaterial amendments of Mr Vebra were sent to Article 28 of the two amendments and to Article 31 of the three amendments and to Articles 3, 6, 11, 15 and 31 of the four groups of Members. At the Committee's meeting, Mr Janko Weber withdrew the amendments, namely the three amendments to Article 2, the two amendments to Articles 3 and 9, the two amendments to Articles 11, 15 and 16, the two amendments to Articles 17 and 19 and the two amendments to Article 39 and the two amendments to Articles 41, 47, 50 and 51, so that the law is ready to be considered for admission in the second procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Rapporteur of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, colleague Malovre. The four groups are now asking for a presentation of their views. First, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and colleague Weber. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you for your word. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we tried to address the law on amendments and additions to the law on railway safety mainly in terms of the basic law, the law on rail transport, which divided the tasks in the field of railways between the controller and the authorised manager of railway infrastructure. So, of course, it was an extremely important aspect of security for us, how tasks will be divided between the authorised manager and between the controller, because there could be problems in the implementation of this law that, of course, they do not know in the European Community. However, these problems would mainly be reflected in who is responsible for the individual measure. That is why we have also tried to draw attention to these problems in the procedure and to come to a clearer text, but, of course, it is also extremely important to us that we should not interfere with the rail system in a way that endangers the rehabilitation of railways, because it is precisely the fact that it is an extremely rich structure on Slovenian railways, the human resources structure, that is, of course, a little more difficult if we do not allow this profession to continue its work in a way that, of course, security is ensured to the greatest extent possible. And, of course, questions were raised here both in maintenance works and in investment investments, so that in all these aspects the Committee later adopted decisions which still give the possibility for Slovenian railways to manage maintenance works, to which the investment works of course the manager plans. Of course, we expect that in all these processes there will be decisions that will not result in the railway system being built out of a number of elements, for which, of course, the authorised operator will have to ensure the appropriate plurality and, of course, also the diversity of these elements, so that there are indeed extremely difficult procedures that will have to lead to the most clear sharing of tasks between the operator of the Agency and the authorised managers of the Slovenian Railways. We believe that the updated text on the Committee is appropriate and we will also support this law in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you very much. My colleague Pece will present No, he's canceling the debate. [[...]] Will you present my colleague Malovre's views on the SLS Group? Please. After you, my colleague Janc for the LDS Club and then my colleague Sok, for the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Well, the railway is defined by four basic laws, namely the railway law, the railway safety law - these two laws are waiting for their admission or railway workers to adopt everything from independence on - then here is the national programme, which has already been dealt with many times in our national assembly, and unfortunately I must say that it is poorly implemented, somewhere around 12 and a half to 13%, and, of course, today we have a law on the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railway Holding. There's something I'd like to say here. The railway through our area has been running since 1846. This is said to have been legislation in this area for about 160 years. Back then, 160 years ago, it was mostly about trust, and then there were mechanical devices that regulated rail safety, electricity relays and today digital technology. However, the main responsibility for rail safety lies with the people, especially the services that carry out this work on the railway. Both direct traffic and traffic, as well as train traffic, then people working on maintenance routes, and people working on maintenance of electro-relay signalling devices and of course people building railways. There were some major accidents on Slovenian railways or in Slovenia, namely in 1965 there was an accident with the Wall Bridge, then in 1989 there was an accident in Divaca, with severe consequences. It was the first time in Slovenia that one of the directors resigned, Dr. Bogdan Zgonc, because he also felt subjective and objectively responsible. I must say, over the last three years, there have been three minor incidents in Prestránk, but they could be bigger. Last year in December, in Slovenska Bistrica, where there was great material damage. But I must say that the railroaders were lucky, for God forbid that the opposite train would come by transporting workers, they would train by transporting passengers. But I must say, there was no disciplinary procedure in place here. The National Assembly must adopt a good law so that railway workers can also adopt good regulations. January will be 15 years after I left the railway and there were 729 regulations and regulations on Slovenian railways. The last one I remember was a medical report bearing number 727. With the breakup of the former SFRJ we should also change the regulations, and Slovenian railways have lost their meaning, which they had until then, because there were some types of transport backbone from the west to the east, that is to say through Jesenic, Ljubljana, Zagreb to Belgrade and further to the Middle East. Today, though, according to our smallness, the Slovenian smallness should mainly carry out transit transport, because we are the only ones able to do so. For rail transport itself, the profitability limit is between 150 km and 300 km, but it depends on the load it carries out, which is why Slovenia is a little too small. And that is why we need to draw up regulations that will ensure safe, orderly, economical traffic. For by rail we export our services, export our services through it, our labour force, our energy and everything else. The Railway Safety Act is important for the further development of Slovenian railways for reorganisation and for human resources rehabilitation. But most importantly, it's important for quality services. I therefore propose, Members and Members, that we also support the law along with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. As we say, my colleague Janc will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Railway Safety Act is one of the laws that essentially implements the basic law, namely the Rail Transport Act. How important this law is, of course, is the procedure itself for the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, since this law has been in parliamentary procedure for several months. Of course, from a systemic point of view, the adoption of this law is urgently needed, as this must be done as soon as possible in conjunction with other laws and directives of the European Union. However, of course, it is also important to note the complexity of the subject itself, as the State Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, has twice withdrawn this law from the Committee's agenda. It also suspended the Committee twice, postponed the examination under individual articles. We will support this law because, of course, we are also aware of the responsibility we are taking with the adoption of this law. Of course, all we need to do is point out that today there has been an additional opinion on the proposed law, as well as a series of amendments, which we have been discussing on the Committee for months. Therefore, to some extent, we are also surprised by such an approach to such a difficult issue as the Railway Safety Act. It will certainly require further consultation among the members of the Committee until individual amendments are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Sok will conclude a presentation of the views of the members of the groups by presenting the position of the New Slovenia Group. Then we'll have a discussion and a decision on the articles. Comrade Sok first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija, we still agree with this observation, which was made before me, that the National Assembly should adopt a good law when we are talking about rail safety. Sadly, though, we must find that under such circumstances, it is not possible to claim that we have a good law before us. All members of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure have been amended with amendments. There was not much time at this rapid pace that the National Assembly now had ahead of it. And for this reason, once again, it is difficult to say that this law is the best that the National Assembly has on this subject before it. But I'd like to point out the following. When we talk about rail safety, in New Slovenia we cannot escape the conclusion that the law itself will not bring the desired security if we do not do so in other areas, especially in the field of investment and investment in railway infrastructure. We still have a lot of unsecured railway crossings, and in fact many road accidents occur annually. On this occasion, we also point out that the Government as responsible for the implementation of the national rail infrastructure programme should take a more responsible approach to the implementation of the national programme. I think that we have done a little more than 10% of the planned investments together by this point, but we have done virtually nothing on the so-called second track, from Divaca to Koper or, if you want, from Kopra to Divaca, and this also makes the situation in Slovenian railways worse in the future, because the essential part of freight traffic will somehow or actually bypass Slovenia. A while ago, I also asked the Minister of Transport here what was the latest railway accident that happened at the railway station in Slovenska Bistrica. I didn't get a thorough answer. He told me the commission was still looking into it. That is why I would also like to say on this occasion that I am still waiting for this answer. As far as the report is concerned, I do not know whether I have heard or whether the report has not been told - two of the amendments proposed by Nova Slovenija were adopted to this Act, which we consider to be an important amendment to Article 19 and to Article 40. Both of these articles provided that certain powers from the Ministry would be transferred to the controllers. We have opposed such solutions, so we have proposed that these two articles be deleted and that these powers remain with the Minister as the one who is, of course, most responsible for the functioning of Slovenian railways and, if you wish, indirectly for safety on Slovenian railways. We have also proposed an amendment to Article 2, which has not been adopted and from this additional opinion, which we have now received on the table and which we have been able to take a quick look at, could conclude that the legislative and legal service is having a problem with Article 2 of the adopted content, which states that it is necessary to determine in this Article what the tasks of the authorised manager are. We have also proposed an appropriate amendment in this direction, although the amendment has not been adopted, but it is still possible that the legislative and legal service considers that the function of the authorised administrator in this law is not sufficiently specified to do so and that we contribute in such a way that the law is even better than it would have been if it had been adopted instead. I'll just say it for the end. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose this law, nor will we help to adopt it for the reason I mentioned in the introductions, which is, because of the time constraints in which the adoption of this law took place on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u14	We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will now move to a debate and a decision on the articles and amendments tabled. Under order number 25, in a document comprising 5 pages, you have amendments from 2 to 31 paragraphs. They were tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We'll go our separate ways, discuss it, and we'll make our own decisions. Please pay attention, we're at Article 2 and the amendment to it. As a matter of fact, it's all put by the SLS Group. Anybody want a word? If we don't, we'll move on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment to Article 2 of the amended law amending and supplementing the law on rail safety. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. I see that there were some questions during the vote. Although I led very slowly, there may have been too much unrest, so we were not in the final stages, but, of course, there are enough of us in the hall, over 60. Can we move on to a decision? Yes, you can. We're at Article 2. Please, Comrade Janc, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Procedurally you would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u17	On the contrary, I said that we had been talking about Article 2 for six months in the National Assembly of the Committee. That we postponed the meeting twice, that we had moved the point twice, and it seems to me that at least, I don't know, the proponents would justify the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Look, they've been invited, no one has to do that, they haven't made that decision and the conditions for decision are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u19	In spite of the opinion we received from the beginning of the session and tell you that in five minutes it is only impossible to look [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u20	That is all we, Comrade Janc, should say in the debate, but now we are in the middle of a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u21	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you. And I'm explaining my behavior. Now we have to finish the vote. If anyone thinks it's necessary to take a minute to study, I can order it, but I think the conditions are met for us to decide. We are at Article 2 and the amendment to it, and I will now put this amendment to the vote for the second time. But if someone specifically asked for just a few minutes now, not a few minutes, a few minutes to look, if we went too fast with the procedure, I'll approve them, but it's not supposed to become a rule. Please, Comrade Sok. Just a minute. What's your suggestion, Comrade Sok? You want to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u23	I want to explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u25	So I would like to explain my vote and say that I will vote in favour of this amendment, because I have tabled a similar amendment to Article 2 myself, but it has not been adopted, and it also points out, to the extent that, of course, I am now able to take a quick look at it, a legislative-legal service that says that the law must specify what the authorised manager can do. And if I look at it, this first part of the amendment is identical to what I myself have proposed, but on the Infrastructure Committee it has been rejected, so that with this amendment to Article 2, I have no problem and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Please, Comrade Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u27	I'd like to explain my voice, too. By the way, I will support this amendment, too. In particular, this law on rail safety focuses on rail safety in particular. This is mainly about how transport security and transport are ensured, and then about economic public service. However, the addition in the fifth indent of point 5 is more editorial. That is why I ask and suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u28	A fellow cremator. Let me get this straight. Now, I said before, exceptionally, because someone said there was not enough time to explain the vote during the vote. I won't do it later. Please, my friend Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u29	I'm sorry, I'm probably going to make a procedural error, but I'm interested before deciding on the government's position on these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Please, the government in one minute, if you can briefly explain your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. The amendments are now on the table, so we're actually getting to know them. I would say that, in our work on the Infrastructure Committee, we have given a lot of words mainly to the delimitation of the authorised manager and, of course, to the task of the manager. I think that, basically and also in the amendments proposed by the Committee, these things are very clearly defined and cleared, so that this amendment, which is before us today -- in fact, I see in it certain changes that are more editorial in nature. Above all, we are talking about the fifth point, which is actually speaking. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And things like that, don't talk so much about content. [[...]] I think that the amendment drafted by the committee clearly defines the function of the manager and the authorised manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u32	I'm a friend of Janc's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u33	I would procedurally, Mr President, consider the proposed amendments in accordance with Rule 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, not only to this law, but also to the next, because we just received a bunch of amendments again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Look, this could have been said in the debate. We're in the middle of making a decision now. Of course, if we are going to make a decision on this article, then we must insist on making all the decisions. Rather than adopt a bad marriage or a bad marriage, we need to think about it. Do we all agree? We are in the middle of addressing those laws that we have received relatively late in the National Assembly, but we all agree that they must be adopted due to our European obligations. I then propose, as my colleague Janc said, a compromise among these principles, that this return to the committee, that the committee take a position and then we decide tomorrow or tomorrow. Whether the National Assembly agrees. Rather than make a quick decision, is that okay? Is that true, Comrade Janc, even for the next item? Janc's friend? We just don't have any amendments there. Yeah, you're right. Then I will propose to the National Assembly that this point be considered in the course of this meeting. Please take a look at the voting devices. For the 25th and 26th points, I propose that we address them after the meeting of the committee responsible in the morning, which is expected to be held tomorrow, and that we address this subject. This is therefore a proposal made by my colleague Janc, and I am putting this proposal to the vote. We're voting. I think it's still better than rushing into decisions that will be bad or reckless. Good. 48 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] So this proposal has been accepted. This means that the following laws, paragraphs 25, 26 and 28 shall be postponed to the following days in the framework of the 42nd extraordinary meeting. However, I ask that the committee, Mr President Janc, meet tomorrow to address these issues. Let's move on. We're at 27. Agenda items - Second defence of the proposed law on conditional access to protected electronic services. There is already a secretary of state who probably wants to give a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, I would like to reiterate the presentation of the law on conditional access to protected electronic content. This law regulates the rights and protection of providers of protected electronic content providing protected electronic payment services with conditional access. So they have some kind of mechanism that prevents access to all those who have not acquired the right to use these content. The law in Article 2 explains the importance of terms such as protected electronic services, television broadcasting services and, in particular, electronic services, i.e. what is used in connection with the Internet. The law was presented on a committee where all the amendments that have been made have been adopted or understood by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Comrade Pohorec, is likely to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u37	For a little while. The Committee on the Economy has examined this proposal of the law and adopted it in the form presented in the supplementary proposal. So the report is an integral part of the material and we propose that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We are now going to the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. Do I see that no one has signed up for the debate from the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can move on to a full decision on the law. Just a moment to see if there's a problem. By the way, you know we skipped two points. The Assembly Secretariat is also preparing points with the work of the assembly and I ask you to understand that we are waiting for a second. I think it's better if we don't rush and make the wrong decisions. Just a moment, please, let's see if the conditions are met to decide. I have here the application of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mag. The trifle man wanted a word if I took the written application. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we have to wait another second. No amendments were adopted to the draft law, so the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will have to carry out the third examination of the draft law on Friday, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting; that is, it must be 24 hours after the Rules of Procedure. This concludes the agenda item. We're 29. Agenda item - Harmonised procedure for the draft resolution on the National Energy Programme. At its 35th meeting on 24.03 this year, the National Assembly held a hearing and a vote on the motion for that resolution. Since the amendment to Chapter 6 was adopted, the government warned the assembly that the resolution was inconsistent. By letter dated 2603 this year, the Government submitted a harmonisation amendment, which was addressed by the assembly on 20.03 this year. The assembly then decided to postpone the consideration and the decision on the harmonisation amendment to the next meeting of the assembly. Today you have before you a letter from the government proposing a harmonisation amendment. We have Minister Kopač with us. Does Minister Digger want to add something to this harmonisation proposal? Excuse me? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Look, we have now changed the harmonisation amendment so that there would be peace and there would be no misunderstandings that occurred last time, so we have now taken this number 14 billion into account. But we've changed the individual items within this differently, we've increased one by three, we've left one at the previous level, we've doubled it. In short, it makes sense. I don't know, international projects stayed on the number they were already on. It would be pointless to increase it three times or something. In short, we did not increase proportionally, but some reasonable judgements, because Chapter 6.4.3 speaks about the assessment of the necessary resources, which are not public funds, but only about the assessment of the necessary resources. We believe that the quality of the national energy programme will not suffer excessively if this assessment is made in the light of the number 14 billion adopted by the amendment. And practice will show how much it really takes. In short, I suggest you accept this new harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Okay, this is now in favor of the demands that were made last time. I believe that the reasons for not being able to decide are now eliminated. So I'm going to ask the National Assembly to decide on the harmonisation amendment. This is an amendment to Chapter 6.4.3. We're voting. 54 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme as a whole. We're voting on, I'm sorry, I'm breaking up. My friend Kelemin wanted to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In view of the debate in the past on this important document at the end before the vote, I would conclude only that I do not intend to support this proposal. This is for one simple, only reason, because the consequences of this bad document, according to my assessment, will be borne mainly by consumers in the future, and this will soon prove to be in the next period, at least in the following year, if not this year. In short, energy prices will rise substantially due to poor government policy in this area, and as I say, prices will be paid by consumers, especially households, which are already increasingly burdensome from day to day. And it is precisely because of this orientation of this national programme, which is prepared to the detriment of consumers, to the detriment of households, that I cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Anybody else want to explain their voice? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to explain my vote. Minister Kopač accompanied this energy national programme in this Parliament with words, all those who had something to say about it have said their own. However, all those who listened and followed the public debate on this programme could conclude from this debate that this national programme is not such as to meet the expectations, in particular the expectations adopted by Slovenia under the Kyoto Protocol. Here in this programme there are several places where Slovenia will work mainly on renewable energy sources, however. Unfortunately, I must say that we have written in this programme something that is unrealistic in the future that awaits us. For the biomass sector, which is supposed to be one of the major elements of renewable energy consumption, we have in fact written down after the adoption of the amendment that only those biomass that is not suitable for industrial plate processing can be used for energy purposes. This is, of course, unacceptable and makes this area also such an amendment, such a record, useless. We have written down that we will start producing biodiesel in Slovenia to replace 2% of fuel in transport with biodiesel. Today, I say that this is not possible, because Slovenia does not have 4, 5 or 6 thousand hectares of agricultural areas that could be replaced by or could be harvested with an oilseed. If we are going to do this, then we have to give up sugar beet production in agriculture. I'm also saying this because it's going to be written in this magnetogram. It is even more difficult to write down in this national programme that we will build a new nuclear power plant with Croatia on the territory of neighbouring Croatia. This introduced into this national programme, of course, makes it completely inoperable, because this will not be possible in the next 20, 30 years until we resolve the nuclear waste dump issue. So we accept something that is basically not going to be implemented in practice. While we will not be able to exploit renewable energy sources of course, it remains the closest and easiest to understand that this national programme was mainly based on fossil fuels and, of course, on energy dependence on imports, where there can be significant changes over the coming years. For this reason, in New Slovenia, this national programme, which will have major consequences for the next 50 years in Slovenia, we do not mean or support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u44	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would say that we will support the national programme. I understand colleagues and colleagues who, from their point of view, see the shortcomings that this national programme has. We're all in this together. Those who look from an economic point of view, as my well-respected forerunner, are looking at the costs that will come, but these costs are due to the market category, sales and purchase of electricity. Others have said many words about ecology and Kyoto, which I believe Slovenia, the Kyoto Agreement, will respect. But at night, it's not about changing what's superfluous. And a third. It is true that there are many things that are doubtful at this point, so I would ask respectable colleagues and colleagues who are thinking through their own energy programme to think about giving some basis for slow conversion and change. Last but not least, the largest or most of us all wanted to come in, wanted to join Europe's constituent part of a lot of things, which is also part of life and work in this Europe. So I ask you to understand, for a slightly broader view of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. In the debates on the Energy Programme, there were a lot of comments on the resolution. In most cases, we have all seen serious developmental weaknesses in the energy policy concept, both in the issue of the export or import of electricity or the status of Slovenia in this project. And a very important part was also concerned with producers themselves, energy sources, in particular the relation of the nuclear power plant, gas, natural energy sources or renewable energy sources. The fact is that the resolution strongly relies on the most expensive source, the energy source, that is, the gas that produces the most expensive energy, and that, as my colleague Kelemnin has already said, will have a direct very large impact on the price of electricity, especially for widespread consumption. The other thing is. The resolution lacks indicators, so to speak, it is impossible to monitor the planned success targets for these factors on the issue of emissions. Then there is no response to energy-consuming facilities, this is called energy consumption. Those who consume a large amount of energy are also energy-inefficient or consumption per unit of product is significantly too much. Much too much. In this context, too, the problem of subsidising the energy-intensive industry is not divided. I think it's one of the most important shortcomings. I also do not think that the problem of transporting or transferring energy through Slovenia, the transit of energy, is being sufficiently worked out, because there is much to be earned here. We also know this from experience, and I think that Slovenia has a pretty good role to play in this regard. I think that the adoption of the amendment substantially fixes the situation on renewable energy sources, but I think that in the system, in its entirety, this remains too small, the shortcomings of the resolution are too large to be supported by the Slovenian Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u48	I don't see any more voice-explanatory applications. Then we can decide on the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme as a whole. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 60 in attendance, 45 in, 7 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] The resolution is adopted and the point is closed. We're at 30. DENMARK OF THE DAY - MANDA VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, would like to discuss the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the delegation and the delegations of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which would be responsible for the function of the delegation of delegations to the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. On the basis of Article 24, paragraph 2, of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the Commission submitted to the European Parliament a decision appointing Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to act as Members or Members of the European Parliament. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? The chairman of the commission? No, no, no. Because no one wants to say a word Please, I'm sorry, Comrade Potch. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats have decided to re-or approve the proposal for a candidate for our colleague, Franco Ferri Horvat, for a Member of the European Parliament, even from 1 May, when we become full members until the 13 June elections. We have decided to do so in weighing all the elements. Out of the desire and necessity for us to make greater use of equal opportunities in Slovenia to run and elect all, including both sexes, and of the fact that we still have enough time left for the new functions to be assumed in the European Parliament, and of the fact that, according to our assessment, France [[Ferry]] Horvath has done his work so far. Taking all these circumstances into account, it seemed important for us to renew the proposal, especially on the basis of a starting point, that some criteria for equal opportunities should not be established as formal, but that in this case it is a desire to ensure the quality, equal opportunities of both sexes in regular procedures, but not for one month of the exercise of this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Before I give you my word, I'd like your attention. The list will be chosen if 46 and more Members and Members vote for it. I therefore ask Parliament to be careful in this decision. Now I give my word to my fellow seal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we would be happy if you could repeat the speaker's words before me and talk about restoring the candidate. However, the fact is that this national assembly did not allow the three parties, the parliamentary groups, to give their candidate. You have representatives from the Liberal Democracy - I used the word in plural because you have as many as three - you have representatives from the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the New Slovenia, the People's Party, the United List. There are three political organisations or parliamentary groups that do not have a candidate. And if I speak on behalf of the Group of Members, then I can say that I expected that, a year ago, when we first sent so-called alternate Members to the European institutions or to the European Parliament, you would leave at least so much fair and in that other part to the other three groups to give a joint, not own, but joint representative to the European Parliament. I must say, this time we are justly disappointed. We expected you to allow a joint delegation of the Party of Young Slovenia, the DeSUS Group and the Slovenian National Party Group to submit a candidate or candidate. On the other hand, our disappointment is so much greater, especially with regard to and behaviour and your insistence on showing up before Europe and demonstrating gender equality or their easier integration into the highest organs both at home and abroad. The fact is that your proposals for the candidates you have submitted do not reach what you said two months ago that they are your wishes, that is, your wishes for the so-called women's quotas. At that time, I reminded you that you had all the options already a year ago when you handed over the MEPs. At that time, I warned you that in some parliamentary groups or parties, they had come even so far as to introduce internal rules on women's quotas in 2000 and to change these internal rules just before the elections, as had happened in the Liberal Democracy. Today, once again, when we have the opportunity to approach the realization of your own conclusions, do not do so again. Once again, I call on the National Assembly and the Commission, Kviaz, where I have pointed out this at the first meeting so that the National Assembly will consider this. Not so much because the three parliamentary groups are not equal, because this is usually the case. But above all, to think about this principle of yours - a month ago, you two supported women's quotas. Of course, you don't want to hear about it today. We will be in the parliamentary group for these two reasons, for the first time because you don't care what you accepted a month ago, it's important that the media write something nice about you at that point, how you're for equality. Today, surely, or tomorrow, no one will write that you have not even looked at your own conclusions. And secondly, because you do not allow the representation of all parliamentary groups, let it be by the rotation system, let it be by the system, as we have suggested, so that several sent groups of one candidate. No, but unfortunately these things aren't acceptable. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I can say with certainty that we are not acceptable to the candidates you are sending. In the past, between last year's so-called quarter of the term of office, of all the euro observers or euro MPs that we have chosen from this national assembly to observe the situation and say something about it, there was, of course, only one acceptable to the national party as a human, that was Mr Loize Peterle. Because if not the other one, at least he was there, we can't even confirm it for others. Seven people in the national party to play parliamentary tourism by violating our own legislation, which we adopted a month ago, and by violating or denying the existence of various parliamentary groups, we cannot support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u52	If no one else wants a word to explain their vote, then we'll make a decision. From the date of accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union until the beginning of the mandate of the European Parliament for the 2004/2009 term, he shall act as a Member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament of the following seven Members or Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia: Ljubo Germič, Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Roman Jakič, Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Maja Širca, Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Dr. Michael Brejc, Slovenian Democratic Party delegation, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party Group and Aloise Peterle, New Slovenia's Group of Members. In accordance with Article 24c of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia, the European Parliament shall appoint a national assembly of Members by public vote on the proposed list of candidates as a whole. Candidates will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for the list, that is 46 or more. Can we get to the vote? Please, we're voting. 60 present, 51 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it we've reached this conclusion. However, I congratulate all our fellow Members and my fellow Members on their appointment. We're at 7. Agenda items - In defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act. It's an emergency procedure. She wants the word of the government that sent the bill into procedure, a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on the Economy. I also have no record here that the rapporteur would like a word. He would like to take the floor from the parliamentary groups, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. In our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is necessary and necessary to amend the consumer credit law, particularly as we know, because of the known affair with Orion and some others, where some groups of people, or some companies other than banks or savings banks, have charged consumer credits with discounts, including 250% and more in the ten-year ratio. This means that if the principal amounted to 10 million, then the repayment of the loan with interest amounted to 25 million dollars for a period of ten years. This is absolutely, it is noted, a first-class denial. In fact, citizens were in an extremely subordinate or exploitative position with regard to the hiring of consumer loans, and, of course, they were forced to borrow these loans because of different situations: economic, investment and so on. We estimate that this amendment of the law will help to calm this situation slightly, although in all those companies that are not banks or savings banks, it will still be very high interest rates, but we estimate that this proposal will only contribute to some greater transparency, including greater responsibilities of individuals involved and that the situation in this area will improve, although not as fully as consumers might wish. Our Group of Members will not oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Weber will present the position of the ZLSD Group. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. In the light of the known facts that have occurred recently in Slovenia, of course, there is a logical consequence of the law, which is also trying to regulate this area more precisely than the European Union Directive. The Consumer Credit Act is intended primarily to insure the consumer, not economic operators, and we therefore support in this law all those solutions that actually insure the consumer. That is how we supported all the additions on the Committee on the Economy. It is certainly very important that credit contracts are placed under control where the creditor's claim is secured by mortgage. However, a great deal of divisiveness has also resulted in what is done with credit contracts under which the consumer is obliged to pay the loan for a maximum period of three months. Until now, this credit agreement has not been subject to additional supervision. If we tried to analyse mainly the data of the Slovenian consumer association, many of these contracts, i.e. the lenders, took advantage of them, so that some consumers came into an unenviable position. Therefore, it was somehow established that the amount of credit that is leased for three months does not exceed the amount of three times the gross income guaranteed in the Republic of Slovenia for the past month. This will, of course, give rise to a limit that is also present in other European countries, particularly the European Union. Of course, due to the lack of review, it has been very difficult in the area of credits to set this limit, which, of course, could not be further exposed to the need to adapt our legislation to the situation in practice. On the basis of very serious warnings from the consumer association, we support such restrictions. In this way, we believe that this danger that we have encountered in the last period when lenders, however, are looking for immense opportunities and solutions to take advantage of the hardship of the borrower. Let us hope that these solutions will also address this area in a way that will make it as little as possible for those who, because of the loans they have been hired, will be in even greater difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u56	The next one has the floor, colleague Christmas, to present the positions of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Group believes that this law is essential and we will support it. In particular, we are pleased that once more precisely defined what a consumer is a mortgage credit agreement and, what is a net value of credit, this is what the lessee receives. So he can know what he's getting and what kind of interest he's paying. Some other things may still be a little less clear, and a very good new Article 7a is the conclusion of a consumer mortgage credit agreement. It shall be concluded in the presence of a notary, by signing what is contained in this Treaty. I have to say, because I come from the area where we were affected by the 1998 earthquake in the Upper Posač and when citizens who were restoring their houses to the mortgage system were very clearly aware of what a mortgage contract was, and it is unreasonable how in the rest of Slovenia people do not know what a mortgage contract is. This is also a little bit of a misdirection of those who took credit, not just not only the notaries who wrote them with their left hand but also signed them. However, Article 5 is also very important, which refers to the exchange or check Bianca and also to the third possibility of another payment instrument having similar effects in nature to the exchange rate. These are terminations with this law. This is very good, because we will eventually know what is also written in the notary record, what follows if the credit is not repaid. You can't set up a Bianca menu, but a monthly contract amount should also be repaid. We are also pleased that the interest rate is prescribed. That the interest rate may be up to 200% of the last published average effective interest rates used by banks and savings banks in accordance with the Banking Act. If this continues, I hope that we will no longer have so much difficulty in hiring or that the citizens of Slovenia will have so much difficulty in hiring loans, especially those in the middle of the black market. But I have to say, money always does. Those who want to work with money are always one step ahead of marriage. We are just following in this law what the frauds have been doing these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Mr Vukko wishes to present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the government. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the consumer credit law is necessary, necessary, as individual cases that have occurred recently suggest that the consumer, a weaker party in the process, should be further protected. The aim of the government as the proposer of this novel is therefore to protect the consumer. This is the case where it is a consumer credit recipient and not a loan or credit for business purposes. It should be pointed out that the proposed amendments do not change the principles and objectives of the law adopted in 2000, which follows the European Directive with amendments and additions, first and foremost, as has already been said many times already, protects the consumer. This novel contains some extra fuses. Allow me to mention at least the most important ones. The new law narrows the circle of exceptions for which the consumer credit law does not apply. On the other hand, the novelty extends the possibility for the competent authority to reject the application for consumer credit. It is of particular importance that the novelty redefines the concept of the so-called consumer mortgage contract and, in this regard, requires that it be recorded in the notary record. The novelty defines more precisely the value of the net value of the loan, prohibits the collateralisation of the loan in addition to the blank menu or the cheque with another payment instrument. It sets out the maximum allowable effective interest rate, extends the tactically listed withdrawal cases and increases control itself in such a way as to determine the obligation to notify creditors of the credit. For these reasons, we believe that the novel is good and that it will contribute to the basic purpose, so we will also support it in the parliamentary club. With regard to the amendments we have just received on the table, more would be needed to deal with the articles themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u60	I'm also a colleague of mags. Petty Officer, for the New Slovenia Group. Then we'll go to the debate on the amendments. Just a minute, Comrade Petty Officer, I'm just gonna ask them to come to the hall. [[...]] When we finish this point, we have only four short points left, the law on ratification, and for today we will conclude the work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also believe in the New Slovenia Group that the law is necessary, but all the solutions that are listed inside are not the best in our thinking. This law appeared late. Before that, victims, or many victims, of transition tycoons, were created who tricked people who were looking for credit. Why, though, does this happen to us to such an extent? Firstly, because we do not yet have experience with such lending, and secondly, because our sector of lending or borrowing, this banking, regulated banking and other financial institutions, has not sufficiently offered proper forms and real opportunities for citizens so that they can obtain money to realise their projects or their needs. We deny the solution to the mandatory notary record. Why? As we have now seen from these experiences, all these machinations were made in the Notary. They were notarized. This also means that it will not be possible to avoid it even with this dictatorship, that the notary is obliged to inform or teach about the consequences of renting a mortgage, net value of the loan and effective interest rates. You know what's gonna happen? The notary will issue a circular letter, which he will give to everyone, of course, for what he will do, for a contract in the form of a notary record, he will charge and then this ignorant poor man will probably have to go to his lawyer to explain to him what this circular letter means. Yeah, you know, lawyers and notaries do things that are complicated to make money, of course. In fact, this will overtake the obligation and even higher costs for the borrower, who is already unprotected anyway. All of these were concluded in the form of a notary record. Why? Because a lender means such a form of quickly enforceable address that he protects him so that he doesn't have to "screw" in court. And we should think about it. Of course, in the sense of the provisions in this law, if there is such a situation that it does not fall into bankruptcy, it is welcome. The second is an effective interest rate. Here we should be careful that the regulated banking sector and the financial sector expand this supply so that more and more people decide on this segment rather than on the grey market. That is why we have prepared our amendment. It is not good to place too many restrictions, or this grey market, regulated by the grey market, will not allow people currently in difficulty to obtain this credit. And there will still be those who will abuse it, even in the form of virtual contracts that will include certain annexes in the background. In short, it is necessary, but we urge you to support the amendments that we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Now, colleagues and colleagues, we will go to the hearing and also to the decision-making on the amendments. I ask all of you to come to the hall, for after the consideration of the individual amendment, we will also decide on it. To warn you, there would be no misunderstandings. I'm asking you to listen. You have the amendments tabled by the three parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 2, you have the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 4, you have the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 6, the amendment of Article 6 is also tabled by the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS and New Slovenia. Can we get to the debate? You have all the documents on the table, but they're not so laid out in the review, so I'll slowly go from the proposal to the proposal. First, on Article 2, three groups of Members, LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment of three parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD and DesUS. We're voting. 51 present, 37 for and none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The new Slovenia or its Group of Members shall submit an amendment to Article 4 to delete that amendment. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u63	I will vote against this amendment for a simple reason, and I think that the debate on the Committee has already highlighted what this is about. In essence, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group removes the obligation to make mortgage consumer credits, so a consumer credit secured by mortgage is entered into in the notary record. See, the arguments they cited, when it comes to over-administrative administration, are contrary to the basic purpose. Any individual who chooses to take a consumer credit and therefore mortgage must be clearly aware of what this means. Of course, cases show that notaries are most likely, I cannot judge this, in individual cases they have not performed their functions and have even more clearly alerted all those who have thus concluded the matter. But this does not mean that all notaries in this Slovenia have been reckless or reckless in these matters. It should be made clear that the proposed article clearly states that there must also be a party, that the notary lady shall be specifically reminded of these provisions. Therefore, it seems to me that this deletion would be contrary to the basic purpose of this novel to increase the protection of an individual. I therefore believe that if we voted in favour of this proposed amendment, we would undermine the basic purpose of this novel and, in fact, all these individuals would in some way fall into the hands of others, of course, who are preparing contracts. These are even more than notaries. According to one estimate, the possibility of abuse would be even greater than in the case of notary records.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Comrade Wolf. Comrade Pohorec, behind you, Comrade Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you. I don't support this amendment either. I think this is one of the basic purposes of these types of loans, which follows from simple logic, if I'm selling real estate or buying it, I have to go to the notary. I have to verify the contract, if not, that I also have this contract in place, because it will be due to this mortgage loan, if I don't pay it back, my real estate transaction. I think this is about the security of this borrower to have a proper and certified contract. First of all, I believe in honest notaries, and first of all, from this point of view, it is his duty not to, and we have also written this down in the law, to alert the borrower to all possible consequences. It is the security of mortgage lenders and I think it is one of the good news of this law to protect the negative consequences that have unfortunately been in the past. I therefore propose that this article remain as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Comrade Webber, behind you, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Nor will I support the amendment to Article 4, because one of the main solutions to this law is that credit contracts where the creditor's claim is secured by mortgage must be monitored. The fact is that this control can also be carried out through notary records. There were also ideas to make even a summary of all the warnings given by the notary when it was concluded or when a notary entry was made in the consumer mortgage credit agreement. I also believe that the cost incurred by a notary is, of course, significantly lower than that or the consequences of that mortgage insurance, if of course you lose your house, without your property and so on, because of just the current hardship that can befall anyone. Therefore, I think it is better that we have the opportunity, however, to protect the client by teaching him notary, rather than leaving him to the mercy and mercy of the one who offers him credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Thank you very much. And a fellow magician. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u69	If you think that this article will ensure that people are not in trouble, you are mistaken. Even all those notaries who have done this now, as far as they have done, have done what is in the contract. No one's safe from this. There's something else. This will be an obligation which will mainly affect the borrower who will have to go to the notary and who will have to pay the fee according to the amount of credit he will rent. That's gonna fall for the borrower. Of course, notaries are satisfied with that. This is a caste that serves well and will serve even better. And if you continue to do so, colleagues and colleagues, from the ruling coalition, you will bring something else to the notaries to serve them even better, so that they will have even better wages at the expense of poor people who have already been hit once and for all when they have to rent loans. In particular, we should consider that the banking sector will operate, the conditions for good banking and other regulated financial institutions. That's where you make monopolies. That's why people have to hire loans. Now you're going to drive them to the notaries. Yeah, that's it. All he's gonna say is, if you don't fulfill your obligation, you're gonna be mortgaged on whether it's a house or an apartment or whatever it is he's pawning. That's how he's gonna do it. Those who go into this know that if he does not pay, the property will go to the auction that will pay off the loans or what he has rented. That's definitely it. And that's all he's gonna tell him. But the notaries are cunning, and since they're lawyers, they're really going to put a circular letter where the legal engravings are going to be, and with this circular letter, they're going to go to the poor guy, who's already a poor guy, and he's going to have to go to the lawyer to explain to him what that means. There is no guarantee here and no provision in this respect guarantees this. But it is true that it is going bankrupt, and that provision is fine with our thinking. And even in these cases, we should do so in order to exempt ourselves. This amendment is completely logical and useful. That the creditor goes to the notary, it is in his advantage that then the obligations that the borrower has can be deleted from the court because he has a good enforcement address. He's interested in driving the borrower to the notary. He's going to look inside to see if he has all the elements, but he doesn't care what happens outside, what property he has. They don't care because he's a public servant. It'd probably be better if his lawyer did it in his best interest. Or himself to learn that he himself is aware of the facts of what he is given when he rents a loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Two more want a word. This is Comrade Sok and Wolf. Comrade Sok and his fellow Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you very much. One question to me is that there was a lot of talk that this consumer credit law was passed in 2000, at the time the government changed. Someone from Parliament told me that there was a copy of the Austrian law at the time. However, there was a copy at the time, according to those government services where they translated it, using the words "intentionally abandoned area" which we are further regulating today. This Austrian law is said to have been incoherently copied. Here I am now asked how this area is then resolved by the neighbouring state of Austria. They have a lot of experience with mortgage loans there. Before we knew anything about it at all, the Slovenians were happy to go to Austria, sign and rent mortgages. Here I would expect the government to answer this dilemma. Otherwise, as it is now written in this case, it seems to me that this fourth article has been written by notaries who, of course, see an extraordinary opportunity in this matter. In the media, we were able to follow this development, which today changed this law, and the fact is that these people had notar records, and yet they had been deceived. So the notary record itself can't save him from this. If that's what's required. In the second paragraph of this Article, it states that notary is to be taught separately. What does that mean to teach him? To tell him verbally that's what's waiting for you if you don't do it and do it. Is this study supposed to mean anything? This, of course, in other words means exactly what my fellow Member Drobnic says. Those who do not already have to mortgage to build a house or start a business activity will then have to pay for one such lesson, which in practice will not mean any security, will have to deduct so much and so much money in order to receive by law what the law provides. I'm up for protecting people, but if that actually protects them. However, if it does not protect them, then I am not in favour of accepting something that will burden them and, on the other hand, we are not actually contributing to it in terms of true protection. So before we decide on this, I ask the government representatives to respond to this, because in this law this is not comparatively shown, I am not interested in all other countries, answer me how this is resolved in neighbouring Austria, if you also have to go to the notary. I myself have one experience with mortgage credit in Austria; I didn't have to go to any notary. In our court, I got a mortgage, and at the Austrian bank, I got the money listed, and I signed a contract there, and they read it to me at the bank. There I had the time to interpret my contract and I could myself - it was in Slovenian - so I could also understand all the concepts in the decision. I must say, what I felt recently was a short force. It was not like we used to have these bank contracts, that they were very long, that they were written with very fine print on three, four pages. There was all together on one side and with normal printing several items. That was explained to me. I wish we had such solutions in our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Now my friend Wolf has the word, and then I'll give you my word. First, my friend Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Look, these debates we've just heard are in style. Of course I'm a lawyer, and somehow it's a legal category. But to work here, why people hire loans. Simple. People hire credit because they want it in some way, but that's a sociological question of why they hire it. Because they want to satisfy their needs for some good. This is about consumer credit, which someone is offering them so they can get these different items. There's probably something about us in this national council that we've been taking consumer credits and paying them off. The first rule is that if you take a loan, you have to realize that you have to pay it back. That's rule number one. And the second rule is that if you take a consumer loan with a mortgage and set up your own apartment, the house, you have to realize that if you become insolvent in three months, that whoever gave you that house can take that house away from you. You know, that's not gambling anymore. And protection must also be taken in another sphere, Mr Drobnič. No, let's let people go from lawyer to lawyer. If the legislator lays down rules, as they are now written, this is protection, not additional burden, in their interest. And be correct and read the article to the end. And Mr. Sok and Petty Officer. Now I will take my time to quote him on the substance of this paragraph 7a. Do you know what was going on? To give people some special irrevocable powers to sign, with which some xy person was authorized to cooperate on their behalf all: pawning, selling, negotiating purchases and so on. Wherever, not just in Orion, there are examples from practice. Now listen to what the second sentence says, and this is the essence of this article: "When concluding a notary record, the owner of the property must be personally present..." It's essential that I, as the owner, come there and say, "I'm aware that if I have my house, of course, I'll give it to the insurance of this loan." Next: "in which a mortgage or land debt is established if the owner of the property is a consumer or a natural person." A natural person is protected. If this is what the company does, of course, it can also be a different mandate. And then when you say, "Do you say it orally?" Today it was like, "Does that verbally say it?" No, no, no. The last sentence of the second paragraph reads: "The flag should confirm in writing on the notary record that the notary has taught him all the legal consequences." It reads: "The consequences of the credit agreement, its collateral, in particular, what is the net value of the capital and what is the effective interest rate." Thus, the borrower must be informed of all these elements before the notary. Of course, there is absolutely no protection, gentlemen. However, some also gamble and come into a situation where they can no longer repay the loan because of objective circumstances. So don't talk about the monopoly of banks because it's long gone. I don't know. I don't know. These are the stories, "someone told me to," these are stories. These are the stories. I think the applicant made it clear that the 2000 law, which I do not know whether this national assembly has even adopted, has followed the European Union Directive on consumer credit. And that's fraud and deception.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Mr. Wolf, you probably don't understand. Look, anyone who makes a mortgage deal will be able to go to the notary. That's the only difference. After this law he'll have to go, you've bound him, and under the existing law, if he wants to, he'll go. It's gonna be the same. He'll just be at his discretion whether he goes there or not. And now it's like working for the notaries so their mature pears will fall into the poles. That's it. They can still go. After the existing law and you yourself said that it would not prevent any abuse or that they would lose something because of stupidity. That doesn't guarantee them. This is mandatory for all of us, and you would also like to bring things in the form of a notary record. Please, the best thing is a book of land. This is also a problem with gambling with the land book; that at a time when no mortgage is entered, a number of things happen and then they find that some records are made in between. But that's not real. However, if you have a land book in order, because it is a public charter, they will turn to the court very quickly. But I'll tell you, there's a weak borrower here, and the lender will probably want to have, at least for the most part, a notary record that they have a quick executive address to settle their claims. In short, teach - you will also need to know what it is to teach. Of course, he'll say, I'm teaching you that the net value of the loan is so much if you don't pay back, you're threatening that the payment will be made through the mortgage. That means your apartment is used to pay off claims. That's all. I'd like to tell you again, Mr. Wolf. Even now, everyone can go to the notary, but they will not protect him, just as they will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This law was created as a result of these deplorable affairs, Zbiljski Gaj and Orion. Of course, it certainly brings some positive things, but I also agree with some of the concerns that this may not be what it looks like. These clauses, which are also supposed to protect them in some way against such aberrations of borrowers, should, in my opinion, already be part of the professional ethics of the notary or part of the Notariat Act. There should also be some security guards who have already warned the notary that, as I said, according to their professional ethics, he would be paying attention to this. The Committee on the Economy has shown that lawyers from the Consumer Protection Office have already told us that notary records exist in all of these major frauds that have taken place. That the lenders wanted to go to the notary, made a notary record, and even when notary records were made, these are the worst scams that people have ever had. I believe that this article will simply send a notary to give the borrower a circular on the table, as Mr Drobnic has said. And then the last sentence of 7a. the article says, the owner, this is what the borrower says, must confirm in the notary signature that the notary has taught him all the legal consequences. That's what I think is absolute notary protection. How he did his business on the spot does not bring about this article. I think that lawyers and notaries are lawyers and experienced people, will be able to protect themselves in an elegant way and will certainly always be itching to protect themselves with this signature, which is supposed to be here, and at the same time there will be a lot of things in the notary record, because people are ignorant. We need to be aware that people are actually ignorant and it would be better if these professional responsibility clauses were properly regulated in the Notariat Act. At the same time, Article 18th, which, in my opinion, continues to enable me to pay my taxes, leads me to believe that moderate Orions are something desirable in this country. Since these moderate Orions, which are involved in this financial engineering, are engaged in the financial market, it seems to me that the people who have received support within this national council are also, and that in fact this Article 7a does not protect the future borrower from something similar to that that has happened to some so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Look, I just want to comment on this fourth paragraph. Some lawyers in the National Assembly who have a long - standing practice already know how to handle this matter. But I would like to say one practical example of how it has actually happened so far and that this provision is not going to solve these things now. It happened that even now people came, real borrowers, to the notary, with witnesses and so on and probably without their lawyer themselves to the notary and when they signed the contracts prepared by this notary between the borrower and the lender, even then, those people were handed over that contract to them. I don't have much time, let's make this quick, just for a short while, let's all sign here quickly, the customers outside are waiting, because we can't wait any longer, let's move on. People don't even remember, this party that I talked to personally, they don't even remember whether the provisions, the contracts read in the part where they related to the amount of the loan and the interest rate of all the other obligations that followed. Most claimed that I had talked to more people that none had confirmed that the contract had been read to him, not at all, the contract had not been read at all, the obligations had not been explained to them, and only it was claimed that they had received it by mail at home. And they actually got all these contracts by post at home, they didn't get it on the spot, because it doesn't have to be served on their faces, if they're familiar with them, with contracts, with all the obligations and all the provisions in the contract. That's what's been going on. And this obligation, which we have now written in Article 4, can still happen that the borrower will sign below, that he is aware that the notary has informed him of all his obligations and so on, but has not really made him aware of it, because he will again not do so, given that he is in a hurry, we do not have time to sign it briefly and quickly out, and in one minute it must all be completed. It always happens. And people in distress, because of their personal lives, are willing to sign with the Devil's Treaty. That's the problem. That's why they're being pretentious. I know why it's going. It is a matter of ensuring that the authorities ensure that a weaker article is protected in order to protect the borrowers so that no one can cheat them. They will still be able to cheat them with these provisions. That's my claim. In addition to having mandatory additional costs, which may not contribute to the protection of their rights and their interests. This is what I say from practice, and this will also happen in the future if there is no other obligation to protect the borrower from abuse. This is just an explanation that you will know how this is happening in practice and that this Article 4 is not the highest degree of guarantee and protection of the interests of the consumer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. It's a bit of a bad world. This article means giving work or doing work to notaries and insurance to lenders, which is called banks of different Orions and the like. The fact is, if you take a mortgage, that's to say that you're setting up a real estate, as mentioned here, a house, a plot or something like that, it's not a problem for me not to explain clearly to me what my tasks and my obligations are, but the problem is that the land book has to be regulated. As far as I know from the Committee on Internal Policy, the land book in Ljubljana is also five years late. I'm not saying that in all cases, some are probably quickly resolved, so overnight. However, if it takes some time, there is no guarantee that that contract is worth anything if that property does not at all show the right owner. I didn't make it up to myself that in the Ljubljana area, the land book could be five years late. I didn't make that up, that's what others said, those who also want something in the land book to arrange for it to last up to five years can do less. And respectable why I said that this is the protection of the lender, it's called a bank and similar, where they got the opportunity and permission to give credit. These people should be on their own, and these companies should be able to protect themselves and find out who they're lending to in order to get their money back. No, we didn't do it now. In any case, they'll get the property, they'll get the notary, and those who can pay the end won't care, because they're going to take the property away from him anyway. We're not protecting the borrower here, we're protecting that lender, and we're introducing another article to make it more complicated to make it more work. Why don't we settle all this at the bank? Whether the bank hires a lawyer or not, there's someone else who can figure out all these things if the borrower is even creditworthy, if he even owns these properties. It's out in the states, I'll say, legal states with regulated democracies, with a regulated system, that's how it is. Of course, there is something different about us. I hope foreign banks will come to us, and this system will be put in place. Not only will they paint and operate on our system, along the line of the slightest resistance. I hope that happens. This case, such as it is here, is not acceptable. It's not acceptable, and it's not a guarantee. This is no guarantee, just a little more administration and work-giving to a certain layer and protection of lenders. Thank you very much. That's why I'm going to support this amendment to erase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. This 7.a Article, of course the fourth Article, the second paragraph, and the first paragraph, must have been created in a desire to actually insure the second article significantly more significantly, is said to be a weaker article in this sense, saying that the person renting the mortgage loan. However, this desire can, of course, give rise to another danger. The danger of making additional profits available to the notaries in this way. I'm in favour of keeping this solution. But we need to know the following. The old people's river says, and it was a very wise saying that he was afraid of credit, but if you take it, I think everyone who takes it must be so confident that he knows what he's doing and what he's going into. I'm not saying that in the case of Orion, the True Guy, etc., there were abuses, serious abuses. And here's the missing solution in the Notariat Act. There is no solution to the withdrawal of the licence and, on the other hand, there is no solution under these provisions in this Consumer Credit Act in order to limit the level of the notary tariff. But we can't save him in this marriage. However, we should follow the amendment and amendment of the Notariat Act, because in fact, based on these solutions, which we are actually working for the interests of those citizens and citizens who are not so "explanated" when they are also going into this business. On the other hand, I think there's something else to say. The treaties that we adopt in this country are too complicated, simply stated. The determination must be clear and brief, and in this way it is also more understandable between the two partners who put the process in place. I believe that it is still better to accept this in consumer protection, but then there should be a commitment to move as quickly as possible to amending and supplementing the Notariat Act in order to resolve other issues. I agree, the party who comes after the treaty's confirmation to the notary will be able to read it or simply say it, these and these things are, and below, please sign it. But there must also be sanctions in the Notariat Act. And now we are facing a dilemma - if we do not accept it, then I think we will probably go in the same way as not having an interest in consumer insurance or that the National Assembly has gone a step backwards. But if we accept it, then there's another fear that we can make extra money to the notaries. But in this case, I think that this step should be followed by another step. And on this occasion, although there is no source for this area, I call on the government to approach solutions in this area as well. I believe that we must resolve other issues in the Notariat Act, not only those that are very problematic in dealing with citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I think it's like none of us have ever hired any credit before. Indeed, when I listen to you, it seems to me that you do not know that you can take credit up to one third of your salary - with ours, the pay is great and for someone else little. And we are primarily talking about those who have gone to others who are given the opportunity and the right to give them credit under Section 7 of this Law. We're talking about these people. And we also adopted an amendment that says 'and the total amount of credit does not exceed the amount of three times the gross personal income guaranteed in the Republic of Slovenia for the past month'. This rich people can afford, poor man, what Mr Petty Officer said, they can't afford it. Let's understand that! And secondly, when we speak, how can we protect ourselves after we have no contract and will not be deposited anywhere, as we once said? I don't know. I come alone from Primorska. In Primorska, half of the farms went to the drum during the two wars because of a bank that was shut down and lost by the fascists in 1927 or the Slovenian Market Credit Bank, which Mond destroyed. Let's take a little history into consideration. I said before, when I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group, criminals are always one step ahead of the law. And secondly, when you talk about the land book, please speak respectfully - this is the law of laws! If you can't show ownership, it means that you don't have something written in the land book, and there's also a gentleman today, too, Mr Petan, if you don't have it in the land register, after the earthquake you didn't get any support because the house wasn't yours. If you don't believe me, go to Bovska, and today the houses that didn't have owners haven't been rehabilitated. God help me if he doesn't own it. I am in favour of this way that, however, if we go to such a large debt that we couldn't get at the bank anymore, because we couldn't take it anymore, people have already spent their credit options and that's what they're doing at the bank, they went to the pond fund, and the third time they went to these gentlemen who were giving money or lending money to a very comfortable refund, which turned out to be very bad. Go watch as craftsmen or truck carriers were taken to the leasing, almost everyone lost their trucks, and then almost every house. Go take a look and you'll see. And it is right for those who take credit to have 20 million to protect him in the notary, to write down how and how he took credit, and to record that he is aware that this was read to him. But we also set the height, because it can't be higher. So far it has not been, because it has been very easy to take, and now it is punished if it is not done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Mr Bozic, if I understand correctly, for the last time on the Committee on the Economy, I think you were gone, those lawyers from this protection of consumers mentioned, as I have already mentioned, that these lenders, those who cheated, who had put people away at every expense, went to the notary with notary records, that they were all notary records. It is true that there was no sanction as is now envisaged, but I do not think that this does not actually insure the consumer or the borrower that this Article is an insurance for the notary, that it will not be to blame. Bianca's coverage of the notary, where, I say, that circular will hang up, will give a signature as colleague Kelemina has stated, how it has happened so far, that it will also be later - probably more. And I am pleased that my colleague, Rokavec, supported my proposal to have these matters in some professional ethics - a sanction in the Notariat Act. I think this is the right thing to do, and I also call upon this department, which is owned by the People's Party, because I think that this support and this call is necessary, because your party's status is now half "in", half "out" and before you were expelled from the - coalition, I doubt in fact that the Minister would have allowed himself to write such a novelty about the law in the Notariat without the consent of this part of the coalition, now is probably in a more difficult position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u89	As we have found, we need, in fact, changes in other areas, not the regulation of this article, in this law, in the way it is. So, the licensing regime, the responsibility of employment, not only ethically, but also the consistency that must be accepted by the notary, which decides such - not a decision which provides for such transactions and also registers them in the form of a notary record. Yeah. But we have different things; licenses - this is not checked, tariffs are written by notaries themselves, and then the Ministry only confirms them by the way and the regulation of the land book. These are three conditions to make such transactions safer for one thing or another, only these conditions are not met. And we think because those three conditions are not met, we will be required to visit the notary with this article. We've already said several times, because they can go now, everyone can go, but for God's sake in this country, let something be done in your own mind. That everything is not mandatory, that not all the chambers are mandatory, and since you did this to the corporate state, it's all mandatory. Everything is mandatory in this country. He'll be protected inside, he'll have confirmation that he taught, even that he did a good job. That he was insured - I taught the client to follow him if he did not fulfil the obligations of the contract, his property would go to the francs. [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] What we didn't know, please! [[...]] Sure. For such things, of course, it is necessary to have a good expert on your side - yes, absolutely, so it is that defends you. The notary will, in particular, be visited by the lender and the notary will primarily protect itself from any consequences of this business, to protect himself, to teach him about all possible consequences, formally about how much this interest rate and the story will go on. It is not the right provision if, at any time, this article could be, but conditionally, optional for the borrower to contact the notary, but if so, then let him teach it. But this is in the obligation to perform with respect to notariat, in that law it should be indicated, in what cases of teaching, welding or similar. So, there will be nothing, those who wanted - already can go to the notary and do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I believe that if there is a need for a change to the Notariat Act, we will sometimes consider it, the government will bring it or prepare it. Today we have a law on consumer credit, which is once again derived from past practice. We separate the signature on some credit card agreement that only happens with the notary, just make sure that I'm the borrower and this one and only my signature checks out. The interior does not worry about what is written in the contract, because it is not due - from the notary record which he is obliged to draw up and he is responsible for its contents and he is obliged to explain the consequences of this, to his client who comes there. These are two essential differences. I don't have to have a notary with a notary, because he made it. I propose that this remains as we have adopted the amended bill on the Committee and that we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Mr. Sok? Right away, just for the Members. First, let's see if there's any more questions, then we'll ask for answers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Perhaps, before I give a concrete answer to Mr Sok, a little more comment on this debate. Many times the issue of the Notariat Act was mentioned. The Notariat Act is being prepared, and I think it will be in the debate in a short time. Thus, it will be an opportunity for all these open questions to be examined there and, of course, it also corrects the legal text, which, of course, would achieve this objective, which you have been following here in some way. As for the answer or question, how does this work in other countries? If you will recall, at one of the previous meetings or at the previous extraordinary meeting, when we presented a proposal that we then sent to the National Assembly, I said that the Consumer Credit Directive had already been correctly transposed by law in the current text. At that time, I must say that so far these consumer directives, the directives of the so-called minimum approach, were a minimum level that the countries had to regulate. However, the threshold is essentially limited by the Treaty on European Community and the force is different across the Member States. The current text of the law is regulated and written in the manner regulated in the Netherlands, Italy and Germany. The proposal, in particular this part, which speaks of mortgages being included in the consumer credit system and, of course, consumer protection is also granted to them, including Austria, and mainly Scandinavian countries. Scandinavian countries are generally known as countries where the level of consumer protection is higher than elsewhere in Europe. Thus, now, by including mortgage contracts, we are approaching this solution of these countries, which have this standard slightly higher than others. With regard to the specific question whether they have to go to the notaries or not in Austria, I'm afraid I can't give you an in-depth answer. From your experience, I guess not. Maybe just one more thing. As Mr Drobnic has already found, most of the credits secured to the chipotecs are concluded in the notary. Perhaps not in the form of a record, but at least in the form of an endorsement of the contract document and of course it is also correct to determine why they so conclude. Because that's what the lenders want. This is not only for the non-bank sector, but also for the banking sector, such protection is provided. And from this point of view, there is probably not going to be much more of these treaties in the Notary than it has been so far - despite the fact that it has not been an obligation so far. For two reasons, we considered the obligation to be useful. First time. Credit contracts secured by mortgages were not in the consumer credit system and there was no obligation for them to calculate an effective interest rate and net credit value. It is now. And this effective interest rate is the one that gives the consumer the opportunity to compare between individual types of credit. It seems important to us that this information is properly presented to them and made known to them. Of course, we could leave this to good business practice to the lender, but for the reasons why we are also preparing changes or preparing a change of law, we have decided to transfer this obligation to the notary. And the second reason that Mr Vuko mentioned was that some of these, if I say so, problematic contracts, because the story did not come out, were concluded by the Commissioner. Now, if this is an authority that somehow belongs in the circle of acquaintances, trustees or families, then somehow it still goes. But in these cases, the creditors to the borrower were complete strangers. Of course, this delegate had the authority to charge all the immovable property of the borrowers with this contract, and the borrowers did not actually see what the authorising officer had signed. As a result, we felt that in this situation, as long as the knowledge of taking credit is as it is, it was important for us to commit the borrower to personally sign such a burden on our property. And of course, given that this has already been the case with the notary and that somehow the system of notariat is the one that is supposed to provide a greater level of legal certainty, we have transferred it to the notariat. The problems that have arisen with regard to the system of notariat, I agree, are the subject of resolution under the Notariat Act and this law will be in this national assembly in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Yes, you can. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Yes, you can. So, first of all, we vote, of course, on the amendment, the proposaler of Nova Slovenije. You have an amendment review ahead of you. Can we vote? We're voting. Of the 56 present, 14 votes against 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at Article 6. We have two amendments. One amendment is the amendment of New Slovenia and the second amendment of the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. This second amendment is like an amendment to the government. I am opening a debate on the article and the amendments. Who wants a word? Nobody? Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u95	I will support the amendment of New Slovenia because it seems to me that the provisions of Article 18a, which foresee 200% interest rate, say, an effective interest rate can be increased by such loans to 200%, says twice, and on the Committee we have heard that this average effective interest rate is somewhere between 30% and 35%. I was surprised it was so high, I hope we got it right. But it's some kind of diapozone that, in my opinion, allows me to cover all the costs and rich profits. And if these borrowers want to compete in this market, I think that because of this, although it has been said that they have worse opportunities, on the other hand, they also have some comparative advantages over large systems and there is enough room in this diapazone for their profits. And by not allowing such a shaky interest rate, because for me already 200% of the gross interest rate is best protected by consumers. It is true that some will say so, then the offer of these loans will be reduced. It will shrink, but the question is whether it is better for someone who is almost unable to pay back at the beginning, and yet he is on the way to say that there is no possibility of hiring a loan, or whether it is better for him to hire a loan and hang on to his mortgage assets and then he is a social worker, and then I don't know what the problem is. As I mentioned earlier, I think this 18th article suggests that the "little Orions" are still desirable. That this is a population of entrepreneurs who have all the necessary protection in this country, which are linked to certain political and financial circles. As a result, it is also stipulated in the law that you still anticipate a place to serve richly or even to pry away. This is unacceptable in my opinion and for my personal opinion would be some 120% more than enough, but in this case it is better that at least now in second reading we accept the New Slovenia proposal and that you come up with a serious proposal of what this means in financial categories as high as you now propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u96	And Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u97	This article will, in fact, have consequences for what limit or limit is set for the assessment of the obstetric interest. This will likely also affect the judgment of the courts as long as it occurs. This also has this effect, and it also has an impact on regulating the grey sector and this banking sector. In fact, we are in some way establishing a more clear diction to the 6th Article, with this new government amendment opening up 200% for the grey market to be more permissible. We insist on our amendment because it seems logical and says so, even because it has implications for the banking sector in a good way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Did you, Mr. Kelemina, want a word? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Well, personally, I do not support such high interest rates, I would certainly like them to be a little lower for consumers. However, I am asking myself here or I am sorry that I have not now examined all the articles in detail on the provisions on early repayment of these consumer credits. I wonder whether early repayment of mortgage loans is possible or what obligations are laid down in the law regarding the insurance of early repayments themselves or the amount of costs incurred? In view of what has happened so far, just one example I will say, in these treaties that Orion has drawn up, for example, was written as a provision for early repayment of this credit formulation, where it was possible to make early repayments, but on condition that, regardless of the time when this early repayment would occur, the borrower must pay about 33% of the absolute principal credit, it is said, the principal plus interest. That's what I said earlier, if the loan was 10 million, then the total repayment of the loan was then 25 million. Thus, of the 25 million, regardless of the time limit, whenever the cancellation or early repayment of the mortgage was made, the borrower had to pay 33% of the value of the 25 million. In short, it is such a provision, for example, which has also been signed by the parties, which adds to the burden. For example, if someone decided to pay off a loan for nine years and one year ago they wanted to pay the loan early, they should still pay, say, 33% of the total interest on the loan. And now I also ask whether there are any other provisions in this contract in addition to this 200% interest in the rental of this mortgage loan, which additionally burdens the borrower after some additional requirements or additional costs and burdens of this loan to the borrower. Because it can happen that, in addition to these legal obligations that are written, let's say that a 200% interest rate will be adopted today according to effective interest rates, or that the lender can still apply some other requirements and provisions that actually increase these 200% interest rates, I don't know, to 400 or even 1000%, which has been so far. This is only a question of whether this guarantee and this insurance is provided for in this law or in any other provision. If not, this proposal is once again flawed. It is flawed because, as we have already noted, lenders will find a new hole in this law or in the whole legislation and will try to make a greater return with some other provisions. However, if this 200% commits to the total amount of the loan and to the total liabilities of the lender and the borrower, then this is fine. But if there are other provisions and new speculations, then this is not right if this is not further written. I would only ask for a brief explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I would have a question for the proposers of this amendment, the New Slovenia Group - because it is not clear to me that someone can help me - which says that an effective interest rate can be the highest interest rate prescribed for legal late interest. I do not know where this is prescribed and who prescribes it, because in the wording in this article it says that it can be an effective interest rate on the date of conclusion of the contract, up to 200% of the last published average effective interest rates held by banks and savings banks. This is something else- published - because I don't know if anyone in this country prescribes how late the interest rate can be. If it's okay, that's why I asked the question. So what's good now? With this law, we do not close those who, in addition to banks, are still lending, but we are significantly tightening the screw to where they are allowed to go with interest because they are now 1,000% above that effective interest rate, including 1000, five times less. But it says "up to 200", so it can't be 200, and if it pays anyone else to lend to the pack, it's part of the credit market, and I think it might stay that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Thank you very much. And Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u103	I have another question regarding this Article 18. In fact, there seems to be some room for ambiguity in here, because if we were to take seriously the first paragraph, the effective interest rate on the date of conclusion of the contract is not more than 200% of the last published average effective interest rates carried out by banks and savings banks, etc., then the second paragraph of this Article is not necessary. Now I'm wondering, because he's talking about if the contract is more than 200%. The first paragraph of the instructions shall then apply to all subsequent contracts. Now, why did you write the second paragraph? Will this paragraph apply backwards, will it be valid back, which in our legal order, I don't think is possible? Is this trying to get rid of the fault of some borrowers, and now they're going to be elegantly able to get rid of this 200% interest rate? And that's gonna apply, and the gentleman will be subjected to no prosecution, and the notaries will wash their hands and all together? I don't know. That seems very strange to me! If it clearly states in the first paragraph, why again for what comes out of this framework, because this standard, which is covered in the first paragraph, is, in my view, mandatory. You should be! And why such hospitality, because it makes marriage more opaque, untransparent and incomprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Maybe Secretary of State Logar, another word. Please. As agreed, yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u105	So thank you again. In the order of the answer to Mr. Kelemini. An effective interest rate, as for us, translates the English term "Annual percentage rate" actually is not the interest rate as such. Maybe the translation's a little unfortunate. This is essentially the case that, in addition to the contractual interest rate, which represents a remuneration for the use of capital, all the other costs associated with the borrowing of the loan are included in this amount. Thus, the costs of granting credit, possibly the cost of managing credit, possible collateral, and when this is calculated and converted to an annual rate, we get an effective interest rate. This is why the effective interest rate is very embarrassing to limit. There were quite a few dilemmas on our side as well. In short, because of these facts, the effective interest rate has this habit or this legality to make it shorter than the deadline and less than the amount, the higher the interest rate. And it's growing so much. There have been some of these cases and these debates on the Committee on the Economy. For example, if you look at the basic preliminary calculation, which is informative in banks for an effective interest rate, for a credit value of about 150 thousand dollars for a period of three months, so that, for example, the cost of managing the loan is zero, and the cost of the approval is 4,500 dollars, the nominal annual interest rate of about 9, between 9 and 9, then we get to this effective interest rate that Mr Jerovšek was talking about - somewhere 30, 31 or 34%. If we add one more amount to this interest rate, approximately the same amount as the credit approval cost, it is said that 4,500 to manage the credit, then you will get this approximately twice the value. And that's what we're proposing. Of course, if you take it for three months instead of 150 grand 30 grand, then this effective interest rate, due to the ratio between the size of the cost and the size of the leased loan, is about 220%. And of course, with a shorter hand and a smaller amount, this is growing very exponentially. After the deadline has been extended and when the amount increases, of course, this interest rate drops into some lower numbers. So the effective interest rate is the one that is supposed to cover the entire cost. And it is because of this nature that this restriction is, of course, at the level proposed at the level of the law, that the legal late interest prescribed by the law - and this moment amounts to 15 and a half percent - is essentially too restrictive, practically cutting off all these short loans. Why is there a difference between the banking and non-banking sectors? We've already said something on the committee. Where payment transactions are made through them, they have a better view of the customers and a greater possibility of payment in the event of default. As a result, they can operate at lower, operating costs - such as these and may have a lower interest rate. This non-bank sector does not have the options that banks have, and, of course, because of this, if you call it success or return, the percentage of the return of the funds they borrow is significantly lower. And it can compensate only with an additional margin, or a higher cost of managing, or a higher cost of operating, or a higher cost of securing credit. Not necessarily in mortgages, it could be in the insurance company. And because of this, they need to be given some extra space from the bank average, we've compared how they do it somewhere. In particular, when we mentioned it, Italy has a similar solution. And if you compare the average interest rates there for individual types of loans, by hand, the shortest - I have now in memory - is about 1:2. I think I've already told you about the legal late interest rate. It's a matter of law. The third question of Mr Jerovska - why the second paragraph? Of course, paragraph one is the norm that is commanded. And the purpose is to respect her. If it is not respected, a sanction is imposed here. However, in order to make it easier for the borrower to prove in case of non-compliance with this standard before the court, we have already entered the presumption into law. If this effective interest rate is higher than that laid down in paragraph 1, it shall be considered - regardless of what the parties have entered into the contract - that this maximum amount has been agreed upon by law. And this is a legal assumption, which then substantially facilitates proof, especially for the borrower, for the lender, it will not be so interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Not yet. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u107	Just an additional explanation. When I just mentioned that it probably couldn't work and must have retrograded, it was of these kinds: of course, you can, of course, be able to go back. And actually, I'd like to explain that. And one more thing. Why, when it comes to consumers, to understand as much as possible and to avoid as much fraud as possible and why this complicated financial rhetoric is here in all these laws and clauses. Why not write down the total cost of servicing the loan, but it is known that these are the costs that the bank calculates or someone plus interest and would express this in a practical way? I don't know, this law is not written in any clear direction either, so the average consumer would understand. However, if we are talking about the total cost of servicing the loan, all bankers know what it is and consumers would know much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u108	Is there anyone else I'm asking that we discuss this somehow? Once again, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u109	The law in this provision will apply not backwards; this I think is quite clear. As far as these terms are concerned, if I understand correctly, from the content you've been asking about. This is mainly a statement of what an effective interest rate is. The definition of an effective interest rate, and we also have in some way already in this Directive consumer credit, and we have taken it out of this - this is not part of the law that is now changing. At that time, unfortunately, I did not participate in this preparation, so that, specifically, why such a solution was chosen at the time, I could not answer you. In any case, it is a standard terminology that is used in some way and has its roots already in the European Union Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u110	Good. I'm closing the debate. Yes, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u111	I'm sorry. Maybe I speak a little louder, so it sounds, but now I don't know if there's anything wrong with speakers or anything else. I don't know where I've been thundering, but when you listen to certain debates, they just don't hear. Now I don't know if individuals really have such a bad voice, I don't mean bad voice in any other sense, but indecisive or not loud enough to just not hear. Maybe I'm a little deaf or whatever, I hope you can understand me and hear me. So I would ask if I could arrange with these speakers to be a little more outspoken, if not, if the speakers could speak a little louder. Thank you very much. Thank you for your thunder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I now conclude the debate on both amendments to Article 6 and move on to the vote on the first amendment to Article 6, which is the amendment of New Slovenia. Can we start by voting? We therefore vote on this amendment. Of the 55 present, 16 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 6 of the LDS, the United List and the DeSUS. We're voting, please. Of the 52 present, 41 members and Members voted against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going to Article 7. In Article 7, we have the amendment of New Slovenia. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting, please. Of the 55 present, 17 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, we have exhausted the amendments at second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 6. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to make any further amendments to this article? [[They don't want to.]] Because they do not want to, I note that the law is harmonised. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting, please. I'm calling off the vote. An explanation of the voice, please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In this law, in view of the previous debate, we could be trapped so that we would not support this law and then be "burned" through the media, that we did not want to take solutions that would prevent the future of the Pitiers and the future Orions. For this reason, I will also support this law, because it certainly brings some improvements, because it was also presented as a result of this pressure on the public that you were caught by the public when you had your hands in the bag from which it was stolen. But as I have already mentioned, this law is not written so well and so clearly that it protects a normal consumer from future abuses. We have observed that sanctions should be imposed and that there should be a number of amendments to the Notariat Act and other legislation. And I claim that this law, as the provisions here are, provides for and enables slightly more moderate Orion and more moderate Zbilje groves. This is a fact and, unfortunately, you did not want to accept some amendments that would rule out future moderate Orions and temperate Silesia groves. But like I said, it's a step away from what we've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u114	Thank you. Is there any other explanation for the voice? Mr. Evil Lukach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u115	No, I'm not gonna explain my voice, but I'm gonna have to ask my colleague to apologize for his lies and the crap he's wetting, because maybe someone will actually listen to these things on the radio and watch them on TV, and maybe he'll think that there's some kind of spill of the truth about it. Jerovšek, I beg you to apologize immediately for all the shit you've been saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Well, sir, please follow the rules of procedure. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Nobody. We are moving to a vote and we are voting on the law as a whole. Of the 53 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, with no objection. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Nothing.]] I take it the law has been passed. And I'm closing this agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have some ratifications. We're moving to point 16. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. 16. Dotka - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank (Slovenia - RECEIVED OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR). The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? He doesn't want to. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. We don't have an announcer. We do not have any presentations of the views of the members of the groups announced. Mr. Bernick? Please. Can you switch in or talk a little later?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u117	Excuse me, yes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This contract was signed last November, amounting to EUR 34 million, for the project of official rail transport sectors. As a contract itself, it is not disputed or quite standard, although it is not annexed to Annex A and Appendix 1, which at least in some form may well be seen. However, the Ministry's explanation is flawed, as is often the case when we deal with various guarantees or loan contracts, we do not get sufficient data. There is nothing to say about what programme this project will develop, although it is said that it will be stuck by the end of this year, but we are now four months in this year, but it is nowhere to be mentioned whether this project has started, how it is progressing and when it will actually be completed. Nor is it said if a loan, or a gift, has actually been raised by ISPA, that is 28 million, so that with this loan plus this gift or aid, this project will be worth 62 million euros. As we have said many times, this ministry is sometimes very cheap in terms of the information that we would need to really assess the whole project and the credibility of this loan. This ministry already has a tradition that it is not particularly generous with this data, but as a good master, both the ministry and the government should explain what loans have been given so far to infrastructure projects, where they stand, how these projects are progressing and how much we are now indebted. However, despite some of the previous requirements, we never get that. I hope that at least the ministry knows where we stand on these infrastructure projects and loans and guarantees and that they watch closely how these projects are implemented. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I can say that we have no comments on the Treaty, but we would like to finally obtain the financial information needed to assess such a loan and also to obtain information on the work or progress of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Ministry? Then I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to decision-making. The fact is that the mother's working body did not receive any amendments during the second reading, and there was no discussion of the articles and so on. We can therefore proceed to the third hearing and to the decision on the proposal of the law. Can we vote? Let's vote then, please. Of the 53 present, 46 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY LINE - IT IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF TRAINING ON COOPERATION AND PROTECTION OF THE INVESTIGATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? I can't see. In its consideration of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly, the draft law reported in writing. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. I don't have any announcers. Presentations of parliamentary groups follow. I don't have any interviewers either. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, but there is no debate on articles and amendments, we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting, please. Of the 54 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And I'm closing the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income tax with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? He does not wish to: The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and in writing to the assembly. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. There are no public debaters. I also do not have a stated presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the parent body under the second reading, and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. And, of course, that's why we're going to the third reading, to the decision on the bill. Let's vote please. Of the 54 present, 50 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And I'm closing the 18th item of the agenda. And last one, 19. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Mutual Conciliation and Protection of Investment. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? He doesn't want to. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. I don't have any discussers on my list. There is also no change in the positions of the groups. No amendments were adopted by the parent body under the second reading, and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We can therefore proceed to the third hearing and to the vote, i.e. to decide on the bill. Please, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not support this proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement for a simple reason, because I do not recognize the country with which Slovenia has concluded the agreement. According to the laws of the Slovenian language, in Slovenian spelling and in all the atlases that I have examined, stands at the place of this name, this geographical name Moldova. And I do not know the language rule which would prohibit me from using the Slovenian name for the country if there is such a name for that country. I know that there has been an explanation on the Foreign Policy Committee that this is a request from the State of Moldova, but forgive me if the State of Germany requires that only the name Deutschland, etc., be used for this country. We have a Slovenian name, no one has changed that Slovenian name. As it was created, I can explain the etimology to you, but this name Moldova does not exist and I do not know who is in my name - but I am a citizen of this country - decided to change the official name for this country that exists in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I understand that this is an explanation for the vote because it is too late for everything else; on the committee we should propose an amendment and so on so that we do not go back to business now. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Evil Lukach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u121	In principle, my colleague Potrat is right, but in practice she is wrong, because Moldova, when we speak Moldova, is wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u122	The explanation for the vote is that, Mr. Zląbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u123	Yeah, I can explain my voice. Moldova is actually a Slovenian outpouring, and this is precisely because you know that the huge part of Moldova is, as it were, under the Russian knuta, as if it were domestically said, and therefore it seems to me that this is offensive to Moldova, that we are speaking to Moldova because it is a specific case of some unfortunate republic that has no sovereignty at all in its entire territory. I think that this is a political question and that a colleague of Potrata, who has a very keen taste for these things, will accept my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-05-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u124	Your answer doesn't matter, it's important how you vote because you've explained your voice. All right, for it. Can we now conclude with explanations of vote? Yes, you can. Can we get to the vote? Well, we're voting. Of the 56 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
