ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Michael Brejc, Ivan Kebrič and Alojz Peterle. Before moving to agenda items, I would like to inform all Members and Members that the last group photo of this call will be on Thursday, 15 July, at 9:30 a.m. at the door of the Chamber of State at Šubičeva Street. You will also receive this notice from the Group of Members, so that you will be familiar with it. Full participation in this group photography is desirable. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on the public use of Slovenian. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed mag. Majdo Potrat. I give the text to the proposer, as first-signed, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me, on behalf of the proponents and proponents of the law on the public use of Slovenian, to explain to you some of the circumstances and facts that I think would be good to enlighten before I go to the point of explaining the complementary proposal of the law. The proposal has a multi-annual story about creation and at least two versions and two applicants. This was first the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and now the Group of Members and Members from all parliamentary parties. Since the first version did not receive sufficient support from the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, we Members and Members in the drafting of the new bill were based on the updated version, as prepared by the group under the leadership of Dr. Janez Dular by the end of September 2002. It therefore implemented the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which ordered the applicant to prepare the law by 1 September in order to be suitable for further consideration by the Committee. The three Members, who took over the task of introducing a new law, followed the comments and views of the working group on language planning and language policy, and in particular the legislative and legal service. However, the comments of individual ministries and government services on the completed version of the first proposal were also taken into account. We have also relied on a comparative review of the legal arrangements for the use of official or national language in 15 European countries. While each community has to solve its language problems on its own, because each situation is one-off, a web of different factors and unrepeatable, the review concludes, I point out that the commitment of most countries to protect their languages has increased over the last period, which is undoubtedly attributed to globalisation and its associated fear of the domination of the English language. Thus came a proposal for a law that we have, as is well known, tabled by Members and Members of all parliamentary parties. With this, we wanted to say that the Slovenian language is our common value, and the responsibility for active language policy lies with all parliamentary parties and the country as a whole. The public, which has been closely following the creation and adoption of the law all the time, has been identified from very conflicting starting points to specific issues related to it. We have not accepted the issue of the threat of Slovenian, but the thesis of new opportunities for it. If we know them and want to take advantage of them. Therefore, not only do we want to preserve the position it is in, but we want to make sure that it is used carefully in all situations and at all levels. So take care of its development, research, learning and creation in particular. That is why we also stress the importance of adopting a national language policy programme and the responsibility of the State to identify and provide funds for the implementation of individual tasks. That is why we have added a new chapter, the tasks and responsibilities of the state authorities, in which we have laid down the Ministry of Culture as a bearer. However, we did not intervene in the matter of internal organisation in the Ministry. We have instructed the Ministry to monitor the implementation of this law, to formulate language policy and to ensure that it can be implemented. With this we have only prepared a legal basis for the objective already announced in the national programme for culture. And he's talking about using and promoting the development of Slovenian. In doing so, we did not think it was a crucial question of what the status of the Slovenian Office would be, which for some time was the central issue of the work of the public, but of the effective functioning and responsibility of the State for active language policy and the implementation of legal provisions related to Slovenian. The law has raised expectations in the public eye that it will also interfere with the regulation of language standards and thus become some kind of judge of linguistic regularity. However, the law wants to follow the knowledge that has been formed in the poultre for a decade since the beginning of the Slovenian public language associated with Ben Zupančič and Dr. Bredo Pogorec and its successors. Therefore, the law for this part of the public will certainly not meet the expectations. The proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian provides more precisely for article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution than for the official language. The Framework governs the use of the official language in the broadest sense, as is customary for the official languages of other nations. It also provides a specific status through the Constitution and indicates the established language usage patterns. With this design, there is some kind of basic legal information on the situation of Slovenian and forms of communication in Slovenia as well as in the first language of the large majority of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the importance of this language also for a culture of public communication. Despite the concerns of some, the 30th Article, which speaks of a national language policy programme, is central to the proposal. Its implementation is the responsibility of the entire Government, as well as of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which receives the tasks of both providing budgetary resources for its implementation and monitoring the effectiveness of the envisaged language policy measures. The supplementary proposal also sets out the Government's obligation to establish, by means of a specific act, the composition and responsibilities of the coordinating consultative interdepartmental body. The general debate was concluded with high support for the bill. At the same time, individuals, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the government, in particular public opinion, have been alerted to specific provisions that were not sufficiently clear or too restrictive by them and, on the other hand, the proposal for a law has received strong public support. Before you, honourable Members, a proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian is added. It includes substantive comments on four substantive questions - the language of the national communities in Article 3, the language in the media, in particular Article 24, the language in the economy, Article 11, Article 16, Article 17, Article 19, Article 20, and in particular Article 36, and the language in the education, which are Articles 13 and 14. The amendments adopted by the Committee shall take into account the main comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as tabled by mag. Kavčič, Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Working Group on Language Policy and Language Planning and the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important, however, that a compromise has been reached between the economy, which initially claimed the release of all language-related articles in the economy and the applicants, who, although with their favorite solutions in the first version of the cases in the public domain, have declared themselves potential causes of major economic damage. Thus, provisions on the unfair retroactivity of the law in Article 36 and on limited opportunities for candidates for tendered public funds are omitted. Article 11 has been released, the article on the name of companies has been deleted, this is Article 19, Article 20, which is the best provision adopted for the designation of business premises, but we agree with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on how it could be improved in implementation. The published report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport shows the direction in which other amendments were made. The amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have been tabled for second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, four by the United Nations Group of Two and 12 by the New Slovenia Group of Members. The applicants would like the legislative process to be concluded, so we will recommend the adoption of only the harmonisation amendments in order to be able to hold a third hearing at the July session. The adoption of the law would ensure the regulation of an area that has so far been left too often to individual knowledge of extradition, contractual [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] His current relationship. [[...]] Although not all the solutions in it are enough to satisfy everything, it is more important to adopt a law than to delay it indefinitely. We therefore recommend to the National Assembly that the law be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you for this complementary explanation of the bill. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. The chairman of this committee, Rudolf Moge, will present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u4	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members! The language is certainly a gem that we have received from our ancestors, so Members and Members of the National Assembly, with all due respect for the language, have also considered this language thoroughly. Let me remind you that for the first time, we met at the National Assembly with him when we had our first hearing. And that the bill has received the majority, far-reaching majority support of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. After this law was passed to us, we also held a second hearing on the committee, where the government submitted to the Law 37 amendments, the Commission for National Community 1 and Ambassador Blaž Kavčič 12 amendments. Unfortunately, it is only necessary to say, as is the case with all these laws, that when the law comes under the brunt of the legislature, that unfortunately, even in this law, this law has had a lot of comments on this law and, consequently, the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport has prepared 25 amendments, which the Committee has also adopted, so that this law is now in line with the legislative procedure. It should be said that the multi-annual debate on the Committee has been devoted to at least the next three sets of issues. The first set of issues was the language of the national communities. I must say that the Commission for the National Community, and both working bodies, at the Coast and at the Hungarian border, actively embarked on this, drafted an amendment which the Committee adopted and also upgraded with its amendment to the amendment. Another hot bone in this topic was language in education and education. The article that spoke about this had no amendments, but there were considerable additions and talks about the article that spoke about language in higher education. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you remember, when we discussed the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, where we also discussed the Bologna Process and the opening of our higher education space to the European space, as far as students coming to us or the lecturers who would come to us have already clearly defined the use of this language in higher education in Article 8 of this Act. In order to remain in this dictatorship, the government mainly opposed a special article in this law on higher education and, of course, the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We have not accepted this, we have corrected the article of the law so that it is now in line with Article 8 of the Higher Education Act, but I see that the government has again put an amendment into the procedure that would draw this article and be the solution in the law on higher education that would tell how the Slovenian language is used in higher education. The other large group of amendments were those relating to the names of establishments, restaurants, other business premises, the names of companies, legal persons of private law and natural persons, the texts relating to the labelling and sale of products and the deadlines for the entry into force of Slovenian designations. It must be said that, at the same time as the protection of the language, we have also given in to market logic and that the Committee has now adopted amendments and a complementary bill so that we walk on the edge of an acceptable national dimension and between the important market economy and would not, therefore, be able to break the law with the new amendments, if I say so domestically. This is where the Chamber of Economics and the Member of Magi also became very involved. Blaž Kavčič, so also from this point of view, in my view, the law is now so good that we could adopt without amendment articles defining this matter. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, this is exactly what we will do for the end. If this mandate comes to history after two main points, the first point is that the Members of the 2000/2004 mandate have regulated legislation and adopted procedures for us to come to the European Union and to NATO and far more important to the nation is that we were Members and Members of the National Assembly who were able to accept the national cultural programme and also to preserve our beautiful Slovenian language. Therefore, with all due respect for the language, this law is supported, as the proponents have proposed before me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you for the committee report. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the government's opinion. Mr Cyril Baskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly! The text of the bill on the public use of Slovenian is added to your attention. This text is the result of long-standing work, this text is also a compromise, a compromise between interests after the consolidation of Slovenian identity and the interests of the economy and higher education after Slovenia's openness to the world. It is a compromise, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know as half a glass of water, no one is satisfied with it, but we can all be satisfied with this compromise. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the adoption of this law, and considers that if once again it reaches into the treasury of the people's rivers and wisdom that twice it does, whoever gives quickly. He therefore believes that your well-respected assembly has the opportunity, if it does not accept too many amendments, to adopt this law definitively in your composition and at this meeting, and the government is convinced that this would be a beautiful journey to Slovenia under new circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you, Secretary of State. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 36th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 9.7.2004. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 1. Who wants a word? Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. In preparing this amendment, of course, we wanted to help with the correct use of the Slovenian language. The supplement underlines the cultural value and the importance and practical functionality of Slovenian, while its preservation, enforcement and development are declared a public interest and thus a starting point for the legal regulation of its public use. It is clearer to take account of that part of the public use that goes beyond the official use, which is already laid down by the Constitution and certain sectoral laws. The use of foreign languages is also permitted in some specific cases, while the status of the national language is explicitly attributed to the Slovenian language. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you. Who else wants a word? Magus first. Majda Potrat, then Bogdan Barovich. On behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. By explaining at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Science and Sport, we explained our views on the amendments, 12 of which were tabled by the New Slovenia Group on the proposed proposal. These amendments, at least most of them, and some of them have been modified, have not been supported by the committee. There are several reasons for this. Allow me to focus on why there is no support for this extended work proposed for Article 1 at the time of the first amendment. What is Slovenian, what is the value of Slovenian, is a speech in the national programme for culture and it seems to me that it is the right place to define the meaning and role of Slovenian. In the legislative text, however, the proposed amendment, which requires a specific term of the state language, seems to me to be a good reality with the amendment adopted by the Working Group on Language Policy and Language Planning. This is because we have now established there that Slovenia is the official language of the country of Slovenia. And that actually means that Slovenian is a national language. In particular, we did not use the national language on the recommendation of the Ministry of Interior and other lawyers, who warned us that this would introduce a term that is not in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So please don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u11	Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much. It is right to go from article to article, from amendment to amendment and to review them in substance. Dear colleagues! With all due respect to my colleagues on the other hand, who, of course, want to develop and respect the Slovenian language, I must, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf, find that I should not be resented by my respected colleagues that the part defined in the amendment to Article 1 is also a part that I will use the term that teachers and teachers of the Slovenian language like to use, and once again I say that I should not be offended by plevonazam. It is nice to hear that Slovenian language is the most important cultural creation, but we already know that. In the Slovenian National Party we assess, if we are already writing the law, and we must write the law on the use of the Slovenian language, it must be short, clear and sail. I respect the purpose of my colleagues, but it seems to me that it does not actually say anything. However, that the Slovenian national party will not support this amendment, I express my doubts about their definition in the second paragraph of the amendment, where they want the expression added, "when the provisions of the international treaties which bind the Republic of Slovenia specifically allow the use of other languages". I'm sorry. It's irrelevant. It is perfectly clear to us that Slovenian is the official language in Slovenia, that we have an Italian and Hungarian minority, who also have the right to use their own language, everything else is in fact logical that any contract with anyone, anywhere, must be basically written in Slovenian language, which is important for Slovenia and Slovenian citizens and Slovenian business, political and other partners. We therefore assess in the Slovenian National Party that Article 1 is as clear, short and concise as it should be in a law and should remain so. As far as article 1 is concerned, it is right that the legislative and legal service, which I, as well as the Slovenian national party, are very respectful of, wrote that they point out that the provisions of paragraph 2 of the original text are unclear, where they say that the language, the Slovenian language, according to the legislative and legal service does not represent the country in international relations. If this is their opinion, right, colleagues from Nova Slovenije wanted to change this dictatorship and said: "With Slovenian as a national language, the Republic of Slovenia is represented in international contacts. Now, I don't think it's necessary for a fellow Slovenian language student to ask the respectable gentleman, but contact is a relationship, and in fact it's just a formal diction of something else, and it's completely the same. This doesn't change anything. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, for the sake of the use of the Slovenian language, I ask that we find some not political but Slovenian consensus that we will analyze all the amendments and somehow agree that as far as the first amendment is concerned, despite once again the New Slovenia effort, let us remain in the original text.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 1 is extremely important in my opinion the second paragraph of the amended text of the law, which says "with Slovenian, which is one of the official languages of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is represented in international contacts". Indeed, this phrase is linked to the fact that, with our entry into the European Union, Slovenian language has for the first time become a full official language at all levels of the wider international community. On the other hand, this openness of the European space also shows that due to the free movement of people and capital, the impact of globalisation comes from factors that can emerge from Slovenian language in the area of social and informal communication. Thus, on the one hand, we are starting a new chapter of the period of our linguistic existence, and on the other hand there are actually these threats. Of course, these dangers and challenges can be tackled in two different ways: one is witnessing, say, with some big language law, and the other could also be through some project approach and through the regulation of these issues in sectoral laws. The applicants simply took this approach and tried to draw up a large language law, for which it was then necessary to undertake tasks and try to find those compromises that also reflected this modified Article 1 in the amended proposal of the law, namely those compromises with specific areas. In this article as well as in other articles, I believe that it is appropriate to generally support the view that the complementary proposal of this law represents an acceptable compromise, which, on the one hand, I personally see in connection with government amendments as a step forward that will strengthen protection and increase opportunities for the continuation of the Slovenian language and, on the other hand, it will not be too restrictive to address those areas which are necessarily affected by the law on the public use of the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much. As has been pointed out several times before, the Slovenian language is governed by more than 60 regional laws. And it will certainly not always be debated after the adoption of this law, but it will certainly be necessary to take into account the other 60 laws which touch on the regulation of Slovenian in the public domain. If you would listen to the amendment to Article 1, the first amendment, it would certainly be possible for the balance between sectoral laws and this law to become less clear, because, as the proponents say in the second paragraph, they say that this - if of course the amendment was adopted - this law lays down fundamental guidelines and frameworks for obligations, etc. We know that there is a Article 2 which says that the public use of Slovenian in specific areas of public communication in addition to this Act, in view of the specificities of particular areas, other sectoral laws also specify in more detail, but would nevertheless be attributed to this Act by virtue of Article 1 thereof. And in this sense, I think that there would be additional difficulties in interpreting any disputed clauses in practice in the future. I will therefore support the first amendment, or I will not support Article 1.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. I'm moving on to Article 9. In your review of the amendments you have an amendment for the new Article 1a and also an amendment to Article 2, but both amendments of the New Slovenia Group are irrelevant. The amendment for the new Article 1a is irrelevant because there is no provision for this article in the amended proposal and it is not possible to reintroduce it. The amendment to the second article is irrelevant because it has not been amended and is closed. I therefore move on to Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9 of the New Slovenia Group. Who wants a word? Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you. It's a short-term supplement. This supplement allows for the use of foreign names for public companies, institutions and other legal entities in the case of a type named Balthazar Hacquet Institute, following a resolution of the institution and so on. For it is the originality of names and here we can do nothing but prescribe the name written, the company or the institution, the institution, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you. Tone Partich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u20	Article 1 has now developed a discussion that is already a little more general, but I think it is right that it has been said that it is a matter of certain compromises. I do not vote with much ease against some amendments to New Slovenia, because colleague Ana Tisovic was one of the three main signatories. So when I do, I'll try to argue. At the same time, I would say, Ivan, thank you for taking the lead in your mother tongue. Although you sometimes know that this is not your original language, your mother's language, you spoke well before, and I thank you, at some symbolic level, it seems even more valuable to me. I hope you believe there's no irony in this place, but I respect you for it. We need to see how many amendments we accept so that we can go to the third hearing. That seems a pragmatic aspect to me. This would be acceptable, but look, we will open a discussion, colleagues from New Slovenia, the name of a worthy foreign personality. Whether in any case we will again weigh whether this is then a legal provision, even though the problem of names is solved in some other articles. For this reason, it is not necessary to meet again and again to determine whether this is an important foreign personality, for which part of Slovenia is, for which it is not, that I think this amendment would be difficult to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. This amendment seems to be such that a person would not be able to object to it if there were no two problems. The first problem has already been pointed out, for each time it would be necessary to judge which deserving foreigner is involved and whether he deserves to be on behalf of or not. For me, it is a more problematic question to allow Slovenian language rules to have an adapted name. What does this mean, on the other hand, when we know that we also have a provision in Slovenian that we write foreign names in their original form. One is spelling, the other is writing foreign names. And this is where we would open Pandora's box, which we ran into with the names of economic companies, when it seemed to someone that we would start, due to a request for a Slovenian name, chasing foreign surnames. Well, let's just say that there are two records in Maribor called Shober, so don't let them blame me, I don't mean, on anyone in particular. Šober in such a form with Slovenian letters and Schober in a record as the Germans know. What does that mean now, that's another thing. And what complications this would create, not least in bilingual territory, but I can't even imagine or imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I am pleased to join the words of my distinguished colleague, Mr Partljić. However, look, we are back to understanding clear and short legislation. If it says so, I'll take a segment in Article 9, state authorities, local self-government bodies, public institutions, for example. [[...]] And if it's called a public institution, I'll say, the Working House of Trbovlje and use the name of a culturer who may have been born in Austria and worked his whole life with us. I believe that Article 9 in its basic form, as enshrined in the law, allows this to happen. I understand Mr Mamić, I also understand all the environments, I understand what this desire is, but see if he says: "State authorities, local authorities, public institutions, public companies, public companies, the Fiat Agnelli car factory, because this is in Slovenian, even if we use the name Agnelli. So I ask my colleagues again with all due respect for the effort, for clarification. Let us stay with the original, clear, short articles of the law, which, of course, have been through the efforts of all of us, with our desire to use the Slovenian language used and remain in short, clear original forms, which, of course, also allow for this concern, which is otherwise expressed in the amendment, but I think that the basic article allows for the objective that the drafters of the amendment want to achieve. I therefore assess in my and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that Article 9 is in its original form as it must be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Ivan Mamić and then Aloise juice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u26	I wonder if, say, Tone Fornezzi would have his own company to write a phonetic without two z's when it's signed like that, what would he say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u27	Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u28	Just for a little while. I think the explanation for this amendment is so clear that it cannot be made more clear. And I can see that with this amendment, we can only upgrade Article 9. In fact, it is what is meant to be done here in explanation, such as how to behave in the name of streets, markets or any public institution that would be named after a well-known foreign culturer, artist or anyone. In view of what Mrs Potrat said, that we should re-evaluate whether this person has earned it or not, of course it is not a matter of this law, it is a matter of some other rules, of some other decision. Here is the matter of this law only, whether it is under this law on the public use of the Slovenian language and if it is permissible to use how to use it. I think that without any great harm to the good of better solutions, this Article 9 could be peacefully supported, as of course the amendment to Article 1 and thus improve the content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u30	I would be happy if you would allow me, of course, to respond to my respected colleague Mamić. Article 9, if the company were to speak hypothetically, both you and I, the publishing company Tone Fornezzi is written with two volumes, Article 9 is basically, in my opinion, completed after the concept of the Slovenian National Party because it is a publishing company, Tone Fornezzi. We have the wrong understanding, it is not that now or I can, we have to write with c or, I don't know, sch, which reads, I think, in German, that we should write now, it is that the foundation is a publishing company - a public theatre, a cultural home, etc., that the basic name is Slovenian. One more time. We have nothing against the wishes and wishes you have of respected colleagues, but we do not have to make it difficult, we have already said in the constitution that it is not good to change the Constitution much, and the legal provisions must be short, clear and concise, so it is our desire to preserve the substance and everything else is governed by the law. But you can convince me that I understand the mistakes, but I don't think so. If we say, I don't know, Das Culture Institution or whatever, then we're talking about that it's a foreign name, but if it's a cultural institution, it's using the name of someone who comes from, even though I know, I know a wonderful comparison of a respected colleague that he's a Slovenian but he's from a family that has two z-js instead of c. So, don't understand that this is the case, I think at least now we're the ones who love Slovenian language and we want to have clarity, purity and respect for it. We just want to make sure that it is good or not good in individual articles to expand and give some options, which, on the other hand, if someone was too orthodoxen, can again mean, I don't know, using different other currents. So, with all due respect for your efforts, I suggest that we somehow unify ourselves to insist on clear, concrete articles in the law, which, of course, allow, at least I am thinking of experts here who will also complement some other interpretations. So writing down a name that is not simply written phonetically but written in the original does not mean that it is a worthy foreign personality. Basically, the name, at least by my name, is Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you. The word is Majda Shirtz. He's quitting. Anyone else want a word? Mag. Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u32	I think that this amendment, however, contributes to clarifying in those critical cases when it does occur, and this is because we have such a reality. If we were to adhere consistently to discipline, we should not have such names in practice. This, however, allows and tells us under what conditions it can be introduced. I think it's reasonable and consistent with the world's behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you. Tone Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u34	I think Mrs Majda Potrate has explained this first part professionally enough. I just want to say that everyone will be registered with that name they use and it's in his files. After all, I would also like to keep my last name Partljič - Partljič, as indicated in the spelling - even if I lived in Vienna or anywhere. And when you go to the cemetery and you see the names written down as the family used them, that's the history and identity of today's Slovenians. And we don't have anything to put in Slovenian forms or have any right here. We all have experience of how the Tomažićs felt when they changed into Tomazinija, Sardoch to Sardov and so on. So I don't think it can hold up to turn foreign names into Slovenian names, let alone to judge merit. And I agree with the colleagues who spoke before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We can conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to this Article. We're moving on to Article 11. While you have a proposal for an amendment for a new Article 9a, which is irrelevant, we are moving on to Article 11 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. The word is Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u36	Maybe it would be best to say, let's end this in a package, because we already know what the outcome will be. In addition, this amendment does not require direct financial sanctions, but merely introduces a linguistic political criterion in the decision to issue consent for the use of the words Slovenia, Slovenia and the like in companies of legal persons, "enterprises, establishments, economic interest associations and other legal persons are therefore further encouraged to take care of the proper use of the Slovenian language". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. Mag. The couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u38	With regard to Article 11, however, it is worth recalling the fact that the contested provision of Article 11 which provided for concessions, financial guarantees covering public funds and public contracts are only for those Slovenian legal and natural persons who would be named and operate in accordance with the law on the public use of the Slovenian language. Therefore, this solution has been deleted in the context of the second reading, justifiably, because such a solution, as is now present in the amended proposal of the law, eliminates the possible negative consequences for business operations and eliminates the huge economic damage which could otherwise have been accidentally adopted by adopting this solution. So it is appropriate to support a solution such as that in the amended proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u39	Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The proposal by the New Slovenia Group to complement those legal persons who have been in the external and internal business in the past and, of course, through an official finding violated the rules on naming, business and advertising in Slovenian in such a way as to sanction themselves in such a way as to avoid giving consent to the use of the word "Slovenia", "Slovenian" and similar names would, of course, be discriminatory or dangerous for businesses. Why? If the infringements have been committed, then I will say that it is the fault of those who have either allowed them to do so, let's say that the advertising has occurred because we know that the advertising legislation regulates precisely the use of the language, not the legal person who has done these violations in this case, in short, if the institutions have failed to do so and have achieved sufficient sanctions, then it makes sense for the legal person who has done so to suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u42	I mean, that's the interpretation. Then we'll have companies whose owners are foreigners who are registered here, they'll have Slovenian names, then they'll be managing in a foreign language. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] contribution to Slovenian reality. [[...]] Thank you so much for that. It can also be discriminatory to register a company when you don't let someone register what they make up, and you say, "Yes, that's a negative attack, a bureaucratic attack on the company's business." Sorry, they don't do that anywhere in the world. The bureaucratic attack is later, which is what you do with the company. When he once has a brand that conforms to the rules, domestic regulations, which is not such a difficult matter of naming or naming that person. In large cases, we know that this is just a whim, but let's leave it, it can also be a lot of innovation, but in many cases. Once he registers, then let's work in favour of the economy, normally. This I think is smarter to protect the minimum that then someone who is not owned by the Slovenian side has a different name, then business or communication in the company is in this way. Yes, I ask you nicely, or then we should give it to the Slovenian company, but it will require this, so as to make fun of the Slovenian reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. We have listened to those who have alerted us to the discriminatory nature of this article and we have agreed to delete the article as it was written in the published proposal. What we now offer as an addition to New Slovenia is, of course, a change in content. While I am listening to the explanation, I cannot go beyond the fact that it is precisely the explanation that shows how the applicants of the first version had in mind the retroactivity of the renaming provisions. For this is how it now stands, however, that these should have a changed name, namely that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must not give consent to the use of the words "Slovenia" and "Slovenian" in their names or companies if they are not named according to this law if they do not operate as this law imposes or advertise. Employment and advertising of restrictions also remain following the complementary proposal. However, this supplement also has a part that speaks of naming. So, even if we were to see how the internal agreement of the proposed amendment is, we should find that there is no internal compliance and that, in essence, if anyone wants to avoid the sanctions contained in Article 11 of this Article or Article 11 proposed, if he wants to avoid it, he must rename his company. That was what we talked about before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on its own behalf, I would ask here the eligibility of the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenije. Mostly from words spoken by a respected colleague. I think it's actually questionable what kind of exploitation someone has on the basis of this, because there are no guarantees to grant concessions and use or misuse of the Slovenian name. So, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I propose that we, together with our common powers, examine the purpose of the amendment to Article 11, of course, when we decide on it, and that we agree on it at least once, and that we say, right, whether we delete it or right, we do not delete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you. No one wants to discuss it anymore. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 11 and the amendment to Article 11. I'm moving on to Article 14. Two amendments have been tabled to this Article. The first was tabled by the Government, which proposed to delete the article and the second was an addition to the new paragraph tabled by Nova Slovenije. The word wants Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you. This amendment removes the possibility of manipulating those exceptions that referred to the concept of an additional component under the articles of the Company Act, the concept of a fantasy name or the freedom of an enterprise initiative and so on. And which is why so far it has been possible for the Registry and other official records to record virtually everything that anyone has proposed. We discussed this issue several times, and this matter would be about its importance for supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. That's that article I'm saying there was enough language. So, I would like to inform you as follows: Article 13 already says that the use of foreign languages in education and education is permitted in accordance with the sectoral rules governing the activity of education and education. So we have a law on kindergartens, a law on primary school, a law on high school, a law on higher education that we now have in our hands, and also a law on higher education, a whole article that speaks about the language and its use. And so also when we passed the law on higher education, not long ago, we also adopted an article that speaks about the use of the learning language and says it is Slovenian, unless we look at when it is not. The first sentence of Article 14 is now, as amended, literally prescribed in Article 8 of the Higher Education Act and is added in paragraph 1 one sentence and the second whole paragraph, which states that the written material is a lecture at [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] must also be available to students and students at home, and diplomas, specialist and master's tasks and doctoral dissertations are normally written and advocated in Slovenian. [[...]] That's the difference. In Section 8 of the Higher Education Act, we have inserted a text that states that more detailed use of the learning language is governed by university statutes. I am speaking, of course, of public universities, of all the three of us, and it is because of this article being deleted, if we delete this article, that essentially depends on the statutes of universities how the rest will be done. However, if this article is accepted to remain unchanged, then we have made for higher education a narrowing of the decision they have when we speak the language. And here it is from us now, when we decide whether we will delete this article and settle these things within the university space or whether we will be determined, if we do not delete it, to settle certain matters already in Article 14. If the whole law - for the consistency of the law, it is good for the language to remain - but for the consistency of the law it is so, then the rules in primary school should also be regulated everywhere and also by specific articles of this law, but not that only one segment of education is specifically regulated in this law. So it seems to me that even if we delete this 14th article, we will not do any harm to the language.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you. And Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u52	I'm sorry, I've heard that this is Article 14, and I've reasoned 19 by asking if anyone would explain 14. [[..]] Due to the Bologna process, increased pressure is expected for the implementation of study programmes in a foreign language. The relevant international exchange of students and professors is beneficial, but it would not be acceptable for students at the Slovenian University to study in a foreign language because of foreign colleagues. This would also have devastating consequences for the development of Slovenian as a professional language and would result in a severe decline even compared to the situation at the establishment of the first Slovenian university. The content of the proposed supplement will partially affect the content of the sub-legislative rules envisaged for the further adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mag. Majda Potter. As a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u54	Not as a proponent, but as an MP. I will not support the deletion of this article because I have already said, in the case of the Higher Education Act, how important it is to develop the language that a student, when studying not only in a foreign language but also in a Slovenian language, forms and forms his mental and representative council for the most difficult content. Such a diction, as it is now in Article 14, may seem to narrow down the legal space, but it opens up what we said was called the development of Slovenian. Here, however, I would point out that an article is extended in the complementary proposal, including those parts of the study programme involving foreign students who enable those who do not have the first language to perform their diplomas, masters and doctoral tasks and their duties in their own language. So it is not about shutting down the space for all those who would come to us because of student mobility and thus implement the principles of the Bologna process. However, I think it is imperative that a legal norm be provided in this language, which would also give rise to the laws of the universities and other sub-laws, to a standard under which these acts should not. Experience shows that some of the submarital acts of the basic legal text of the district law do not take place in the manner provided for by the law. As it is said, I will not support the deletion of this Article from the amended proposal of the law as a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you. Mag. A petty man has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u56	Therefore, deleting this Article is absolutely not appropriate. This minimum standard for language preservation and, on the other hand, so flexible as to ensure that foreign students carry out their study obligations and programmes, however, is with the amendment of New Slovenia. That is why I propose that it be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 14 and the amendments to this Article. We move on to Article 19 and put the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this article into discussion. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment removes the possibility of manipulating those exceptions that referred to the term "additional ingredients" under the Company Act and the term "phantasian name" and the freedom of an enterprise initiative, which has so far allowed virtually everything that has been proposed to be recorded in the Registry and other official records.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u59	Anyone else want a word? Mag. The couch, then the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u60	The designation of private legal persons is an extremely important area. Here, perhaps with the best of intentions, many very different views were expressed. A compromise has been reached that mainly refers to the issue of the designation of private legal persons or, above all, refers to the sectoral law. There are, of course, some differences between the rules under the sectoral law. For example, for the area of culture, it seems basically appropriate for some projects and institutions to be named by foreign names, where we are reassured, if this is the case with dead languages, for example, the case of Imago Slovenije is quite acceptable for the field of culture because it is a dead language, but also for the area of culture, it would not be disputed if any artistic project - and such cases are - were to be named with a living foreign language. And it's probably the same. For the field of the economy, the current regulation in the field law is, in my opinion, quite restrictive in the company law. It allows certain solutions. For example, if Fürster's granddaughter happens to be written by Fürster, then she will be able to set up a record label for the music Fürster d.o. But if she has a different name over the generations, she will, of course, have trouble using that name. However, we believe that after examining all possible real situations, taking into account all the opinions, including the economic chambers with the current regulation of Article 19, a satisfactory compromise was reached which, and here we agree, would have helped to prevent packing wherever it is not necessary, this article will have contributed to a higher level of respect for the Slovenian language, but there remains a certain margin of taste for economists who will be asked about specific situations where those Slovenian companies, which are not so rare, have the possibility of operating exclusively on the external market in certain very specific technological areas or even broader technological areas. All those companies will have to give up, at least in a newly established way, to name themselves in a way that would allow for visibility in their target markets with its name, which would include, say, a variety of terms such as "sofware" and the use of foreign letters. Although there would be considerable arguments to say, let us not interfere with Slovenian companies in their foreign-market march. Open them, because if Slovenian companies are, even if the designation of Slextronics or Logistic Software are, it is written as it is written, if they are successful on the external market, they will strengthen the Slovenian economy and indirectly strengthen the Slovenian company. However, as it is said, the regulation of the regional law is as it is, it brings a certain order and we believe that, with the provisions as proposed in Article 19, we are taking a step forward in the further protection of the Slovenian language also in the field of the designation of private law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you. Mag. Maja Potter as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u62	As a proponent, yes. We did not wish to renounce the part of the law that is connected to the economy. And Article 19 was the most controversial article for the economy at the time of Article 36. As it was written down, he opened up opportunities for speculation on how the names of the large commercial companies would have to be changed, and this also helped to open up - not to sound too much - a kind of front between two different views of this part of the law. As Article 19 is now contained in the amended proposal, however, the compromise between the requirement that the article should be released from the law and between what was possible is indeed not sufficiently accurate in the previous version. Therefore, by reference to the sectoral law, it also opens up the possibility of including those distinctions between the fantasy name and what is written in this law as a name in Slovenian. However, problems with the inclusion of personal names could - or particulars, not so much problems, including personal names or names taken from foreign languages, could be linked to the debate we had at the time of Article 9 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you. Mag. Zoran Gračner gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment to Article 19; I do not agree with it. The only amendment I agree with would be for Article 19 to be deleted. This is simply because, in my opinion, we are not qualified in this House to become so restrictively involved in the economy. With the entry into the European Union and with the ever-increasing globalisation that we are witnessing today, we cannot and must not limit the economy and its, of course, also the free movement of capital. Because there is too much history here in the design of individual brands, too much money used by each company, and I do not know the country that would have the solution that we are applying here in the European Union. Indeed, Article 19 is a compromise, but it is a very bad compromise and the economy has been willing to go into this compromise alone and only because it knew that this law would be passed in Parliament and because it does not have the power to change this law or those names. What will that really mean? In practice, this will mean that a company with exposures all over the world, possibly Baumax, Bauhaus or whatever, will have to write translations of these names along with that name. This translation won't really mean anything. He won't say anything. It will only be because we have invented ourselves in this House and we will put together such names. The 19th amendment of New Slovenia makes things worse and essentially limits entrepreneurship freedom, which, of course, I cannot and will not agree with.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u65	I give the word to Anna Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's been made clear that the name will not change back. Petrol will stay, Gorenje will stay. Gorenje is a completely Slovenian name and you can see it in all foreign countries and it has its reputation, even though it has a Slovenian name. I don't think he can handle what you're about to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you. I give my word to Robert Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 19 and the amendment to this Article are a typical example of the unclear situations created by this law, including from the point of view of the languages of the national communities, and hence the provisions of Article 3 which do not in itself address this issue, which also opens up with Article 19 and also with this amendment. This law, as is also based on a comparative analysis, is, in fact, kind of unikam. Only one country is known to all of us who have something similar, and this is France, but it is necessary to know that this is a situation which is absolutely different from the situation of Slovenian, and also that the law, as I would say, in France itself, does not enjoy any overrepresentation between the French. However, comparative analysis shows that laws governing the use of official languages are only adopted in countries with multiple official languages. And here I have to point out once again the fact that there is no such law in Slovenia in spite of Article 3(3). And for years and years, academic circles and so forth have worked only on the law that protects the Slovenian language, not on the law that regulates the relationship between several official languages that exist in the Republic of Slovenia after the Constitution. You can see for yourself from the understanding of individual articles, from the debate so far, which can lead to the concept of this law in people, as well as with officials after all, it is said, when implementing such a law. Here we go from all respect for the valuable assessments, necessity and also the way this law applies to certain levels of vulgarisation of what appears to be in the name of this country as an ethnic state Now, as we know, whether globalisation is happening or not and how we understand it, but the fact that the so-called classical democracy or older democracy etc. develops in the direction of laity of the country - laity in the sense of "laity", "laity of the state", not laity as ignorance, etc., as is usually used in the Slovenian language - while new countries and new democracies are going in the opposite direction, they are going to emphasize the country's ethnicity. So the country is in its own ethnic and linguistic majority, which then has it, and it also regulates relations with different ones. This, of course, leads to conflict situations and on both sides, it is said, both in the ethnic majority and in ethnic minorities, which usually ends with assimilative consequences for the weaker. In this sense, this law is dangerous and has too much confusion. I will not support this amendment, I will not support neither the law nor any other amendment. I am afraid that we will have from this law, which commands the Slovenians and threatens them with millions of penalties to use their language, that there is something conceptually contradictory here; all of this will lead to problematic situations, but it will solve little.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Rudy Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u70	In fact, there was a general debate on the law, not on article 19, and it is necessary to say that some Members are also foreign delegations; they come, and say first: welcome, but say immediately Welcome, that then I am not even talking about the continuation of my language, as if we did not have my language, but this does not now. I would like to say this, President, that, apparently, some people, when they debated, on purpose, I will not have to say that they did not read the law entirely, because if they had read the law completely, they would see that what they said was not, it was written in Article 21 and this Article 21 is also related to Article 39a because it says when it should be realized what it says in Article 21. It would probably suggest that all of this should be discussed together because the government has also somehow done what is related to Article 19 and what we are talking about in its amendments to draw on Article 21. And if this Article 21 is deleted, Article 39a should also be deleted, so that these are substantively linked wholes. Just because it is impossible - and I am glad that it is impossible - that Article 19 cannot be deleted I would like to propose that we maintain the arrangements that we have reached with consensus on the committee, it is said that it remains on the 19th, 21st and that the 39th article remains, because this will give us a consistent law, which will be known who is responsible for issuing a directive on the appropriateness of names or companies, so that they can then register.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u72	For the sake of all of us, however, Article 9 connects Article 19 and their proposal. If we write Mercator, it's a Slovenian name for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you. I would just like to react to that part of the debate that raises doubts as to the appropriateness of the solutions proposed in the complementary proposal. The law was reviewed, and the law was complementary to try to remedy those legal inadequacies that raised doubts. However, I regret that the Member of the National Community, Mr Battelli, still cannot support this law, even though we have arranged and completed with the addition of Article 3 what was the subject of his concern that he might cause this law for both national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u76	On behalf of the proposer, to compensate for a previous error. In short, if Mr Battelli takes over or is dangerous to him, it makes no sense for us to deal with his ideas about adopting a law on the public use of Slovenian. It is irrelevant, because he opposes this concept, this law is unnecessary, then we should talk about decentralism, which means the equality of use of other languages in Slovenian space as a whole. This is because the law applies to the entire territory of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 19 and the amendment to this Article. We're moving on to Article 20. The New Slovenia Group has also tabled an amendment to this article. Who wants a word? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u78	The current text of this Article allows for such broad possibilities for the use of foreign terms that it practically destroys the meaning of this Article. Therefore, this supplement narrows them down to really urgent or justified cases - brand names.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u79	The next one has the floor to discuss the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u80	In this case, I am discussing as a Member of the United List of Social Democrats. Article 20 was supplemented by a meeting of the Committee, while we noted that the second paragraph leaves some things so open that it almost destroys the first paragraph. Unfortunately, I must say that the New Slovenia amendment proposal leaves out some of the cases that I think should be used. It is true that the internationally used term for a particular type of business space remains very wide open. These are cases that we discussed with representatives of the Grand Hotel or Casino Chamber of Commerce for such types. And the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia knows a set of names, which it considers should be the subject of an exception referred to in the second paragraph. However, I believe that, despite everything that remains the 20th article as it is now, there is a possibility that it will be rectified and cleaned up in the future, but until that correction, by means of implementing solutions, it will prevent things from going so far as to go so widely and that everything else will be understood as such - namely, the most looser is this "ordinary use", that is to say, words that are understandable to most consumers because of the usual use. To those who speak foreign languages, there are almost no more things that would not be understood. This, however, destroys the spirit of this law. It came from the position of a man, a resident of this country. But, as it is said, the solution is if I have to put on the scale the legal insistence on deleting all that is stated in the second paragraph of Article 20, because some things must be an exception. The solution is that now, just as I'm about to say, it's not a good solution and it's going to improve in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you. No one wants any further discussion under this Article and the amendment. I conclude the debate on Article 20 and the amendment. I turn to Article 21, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to delete the article. Who wants a word? Master of Prosperity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u82	On behalf of the proposers, I propose that this article, as in the supplementary proposal, be maintained because some of the doubts expressed in Article 19 could be resolved and proved groundless. If the representatives of the economy see the problem in particular in the term 'guidelines', I must stress that it is the legal status of this document, which will be issued by the Minister or Minister of Culture, and prepared by the professional service not to say the Slovenian language office, which will mean that this instruction will make a recommendation to those authorities responsible for registration and will make it easier for them to decide what the name should be in accordance with the company law as well as our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you. Master Gračner, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you. Well, with this amendment to Article 21, I agree and will support it. This is because - see: "The Minister or Minister of Culture issues instructions on the appropriateness of names or companies based on......" - It's okay, we know. Thus, the Minister of Culture or Minister of Culture cannot in fact have such powers in our Republic of Slovenia to produce the names of companies. This is simply not the case because it is not in other countries either, and I will therefore support this amendment, which is completely deleted from this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you. My friend Barovich has a few more seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u86	In the Slovenian National Party, we do not agree with the amendment, we support Article 21 to remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you. Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u88	If we were to delete this article, we would really make a strange declaration out of the law. In addition, what he had is perceptive, that it may be considered that he is a person, a legal person who does it - if you delete it, because then there is no point in us having a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you. Anyone else? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 21. As you have already found in the debate, individual debaters are linked to the amendment to Article 39a. I therefore turn now to the debate on Article 22 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 22. Mag. Blaž Kavčič and then Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u90	With regard to Article 22, which deals with public notices and instructions, I would like to link the content of this Article to the current issue in the National Assembly. And I must say, Mr Vice-President, I express my high level of dissatisfaction with the fact that the administration of the National Assembly has been providing us with documents without, uh, s-s. So from the Lotus Notes information system comes documents that do not take into account Slovenian hard-earned letters. Of course, I have contacted the professional service, I have received explanations, but I do not accept such explanations: about some new and old versions of software, and related to this point, which speaks about the Slovenian language in public notices and instructions, I also express again a sharp protest over the weakening of the Slovenian language in the National Assembly itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u92	In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely agree with the amendment; we estimate that the words "ordinarily" do not say anything, not substantively [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u93	Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u94	The term "ordinarily" would allow for too much arbitrary interpretation of the admissibility or inadmissibility of the use of a foreign language because of its memorabilia. It's too vague. That's it. As for Mr Kavčič, there is no point in discussing a programme. It is important that we adopt the law, so that we can also cruise those if not, but we will have such a law that we cannot prevent such evils.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u95	Tone Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u96	Although I will support the amendment, I would take it in a discussion, not in a controversy, to protect Mr Kavčič's position, because it is obviously metaphorical. As we are no longer worried about receiving documents in Slovenian script, so we will not be worried - as we do not worry - whether the documents we receive are written in correct Slovenian, correct spelling and proper use of grammar, so we will not be interested in whether words in Slovenian or in any foreign language. And at this metaphorical level, I think it is good that only Slovenian writing is used in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 22. I turn to Article 33, which has three amendments: the amendment of the Government, the amendment of the United Nations Group and the New Slovenia Group of Members. The word wants mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. It is imputed, however, so that it is not overlooked; we propose the admission of the second amendment to Article 33 because it is written in such a way as to bring it into line with the dictatorship of Article 17. That is why, of course, I recommend support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u100	The government amendment is unacceptable - so to delete. Of course, we are in favour of our amendment and, to a large extent, we are in fact also in favour of the United Letters, both of which are more clearly defining the normative text.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u101	Tone Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u102	As far as I recall the agreement in the parliamentary group, I would like to tell you, Mrs Majda Potter, that you can count on us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u103	Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I am very surprised by this Government's proposal that the first paragraph of this paragraph of Article 33 be deleted without the Government foreseeing any other dictatorship. However, I am sure that through the guarantee sheets and other accompanying materials distributed by foreign suppliers through the Slovenian market, there is often a very contemptible attitude towards the Slovenian language. This is particularly true in the case of products coming from the former Yugoslavia and I think that especially in the territory of Croatia, because it is clear that manufacturers are often translating the guarantee sheet and other materials to persons who do not know the Slovenian language and are full: for the first time Croatianisms, Serbs and so on. And now, in line with this government proposal, this would be allowed. Such a miserable, deplorable attitude towards the Slovenian language. I think we Slovenians are aware that we cannot go to a foreign market unless we first try to present our product in the language of that country. Why wouldn't that be equal? For this reason, I believe that such as the first paragraph of Article 33 is urgently needed. Let us respect our language and force foreign producers to respect our language, so that this minimum, without which it is not possible to enter the Slovenian market, is one such order which allows the inspector to retain the distribution of a product, is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Doesn't anyone want another word? I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 33 and open the debate on the amendment of Article 34 of the United Social Democrats Group. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you. As a Member of the United Nations. The Group of Members of the United Nations has tabled an amendment to Article 34, which should in fact state what I said at the time of the amendment to Article 33. It is a matter of alignment with the preceding articles, which concerns paragraphs 16 and 24 and has been prepared on the initiative, on the proposal of the legislative and legal service, which has warned us of non-compliance with that part of the text that we adopted on the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sport. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u108	Mr Rudi Moge, Chairman of the Committee, has already pointed out in a previous debate how some amendments are linked. Actually, I'm not going to say it's editorial, but it's harmonisation, as the forerunner said, and we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since no one wants a word anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the debate on the amendment to Article 36, which is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. The amendment to Article 35, which was irrelevant, is included in the review. The Group of Members has amended the amendment, so I am putting an amendment to the 36th Article of the New Slovenia Group with the same content into the debate. Master Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. So, you got this correction - lapsus. Non-Slovenian names of the localities and similar unusually reflect the current public language image of Slovenian towns. Their founders or owners have chosen them entirely voluntarily, without special authorisation or registration, so the law in the public interest may bind them to appropriate changes. It's a two-year deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u112	Article 35(36) and Article 36 respectively regulate the amendments to these articles have, in my view, adequately addressed the issue of retroactivity. This simplified means that it is possible to allow already registered legal and natural persons who wish to register in a register or other official record a change in their name after the application of this law - this is possible without paying the fee, otherwise the names are not retroactively or retroactively altered by the force of this law. This, in my opinion, is essential for us to treat this law as a useful contribution to the further strengthening of both the Slovenian language and the material basis for the Slovenian language.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 39, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The review wrongly states that this is a harmonisation amendment; it is a real amendment, which is linked to the amendment of the Government to Article 21. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Then we conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 10 minutes after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We will continue our consideration of agenda item 11 - addressing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on referendum and human initiative - the reduced procedure at 12.50 p.m. until then, the meeting of the assembly is adjourned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u114	Dear Members and Members! We continue to work, moving on to DEFINITIVE 11. Agenda items - On the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite a government representative to further explain the bill. Dr. Grega Virant, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! These are four minor amendments to the referendum and human initiative law. Two amendments constitute the implementation of two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely the possibility of voting in a referendum abroad for those Slovenian nationals who have permanent or temporary residence abroad or who are temporarily abroad on the day of the vote. So to allow them to vote by post or in diplomatic-consular representations. The second decision of the Constitutional Court requires the regulation of the protection of voting rights or voting rights in the referendum. This has been resolved by introducing a special remedy against the mistakes made in its work by the District Electoral Commission, the Electoral Commission or the Republic Election Commission. In line with these two decisions of the Constitutional Court, the amendments and additions to the law make two minor amendments: firstly, the removal of an administrative obstacle, which is called local jurisdiction in granting support to the request for a referendum. We follow this tendency to eliminate this logic of local jurisdiction wherever possible. It is said that regardless of where they are resident, people could regulate things with any administrative unit or with any truly competent administrative authority anywhere in Slovenia. Secondly, the law is supplemented by one criminal provision in the event of a violation of the referendum silence. The current law does not contain this sanction and is "lex infecta" in this point, so we propose a supplement here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I would like a member of the committee, Mr Dusan Vukko, to present the report of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u117	Madam Vice President, thank you for saying so! I'll try to be as short as I can. At its 52nd regular meeting on 24 June 2004, the Committee considered a proposal for a new law on referendum and human initiative. In the introduction, a representative of the proposer, State Secretary Dr Grega Virant, stressed the purpose of the novel. He stressed that it was a matter of harmonising this law with two decisions of the Constitutional Court and that in some parts it removes administrative obstacles to collecting signatures for the initiative. In view of the reasons for the amendment, the Committee, after a very short discussion of the proposal for a law, adopted several amendments of a nomotechnical nature and proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the law as it was submitted for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! The right to vote in the referendum protects, within the framework of the general constitutional right to participate in the management of public affairs, Article 44 of the Constitution. We believe that there is no reason to be able to defend the rights of others, which excludes from the referendum decisions only voters who are on the day of the vote abroad. Whether they have permanent residence abroad or temporary residence abroad or only temporary. That was also the decision of the Constitutional Court. The 15-day period in which the institutions have to notify their purpose of voting seems a little long, but probably necessary from organisational points of view. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that a number of issues would be resolved if an electronic vote was introduced in the country. Although discussions, discussions have already taken place on electronic voting, we have not yet reached consensus. Electronic voting would also mean a great deal when it comes to supporting the call for a referendum. Not only to remove administrative obstacles for citizens who are outside their place of residence but who are located in Slovenia, could probably also be removed for citizens who are temporarily on duty or because of other tasks temporarily located in the territory of another country. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that a well-protected and well-thought-out system of such voting would be in favour of both the voters and the country of Slovenia, as we believe that the representativeness and legitimacy of decisions could be increased not only in the referendum decision but also in the area of elections themselves. Of course, we cannot go beyond the right decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the introduction of the possibility of a complaint not only of irregularities in the work of the electoral committee, but also of all the other electoral bodies necessary to carry out the referendum. Notwithstanding the fact that we recognize the important, perhaps most sensitive role of the electoral committees in the referendum process, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, it seems necessary that we provide the electorate with a remedy for alleged labour irregularities or for determining the outcome of the vote of the District Electoral Commission or the electoral commission. It seems somewhat controversial to us only the proposed solution in which it is up to the Republic's electoral commission to determine the outcome of the vote at the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad to decide on the basis of the Republic's electoral commission itself. On the other hand, the bill introduces judicial protection of rights on the report of the Republic Election Commission. Such protection has not been regulated to this day. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed regime is appropriate. The 30-day deadline within which the Supreme Court must decide on the appeal has a number of consequences. It has some important implications, such as the one-year linkage to the outcome of the previous legislative referendum. The prohibition period for a different decision will thus be extended for at least a month. We are also asking about the potential for many voters to be required to assess the report of the Republican Electoral Commission. Will the Supreme Court be able to decide on any materially unequal requirements? In the parliamentary group, we respect the will of the Constitutional Court, and we believe that the proposal for a law has responded appropriately to the level of decision-making and guidance. That's why we're going to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The novelty that the proposal for a law on referendum and human initiative brings is short, covering only 11 articles, but it is important. At the last meeting of this mandate, we are catching time to bring the law in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of January and May 2003 and to remove any administrative obstacles to supporting the request for a referendum and to introduce criminal provisions in the event of a violation of the referendum silence. In the light of the first decision of the Constitutional Court, the applicant retained a period of 15 days. This deadline is necessary for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are abroad on the day of the referendum, because they reside there on a permanent or temporary basis, to report to the Republican Election Commission that they wish to vote by post or by diplomatic and consular representation. However, the second decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the lack of legal protection of the right to vote. That is why the proposaler seeks to regulate it so that each voter has the right to object to the Republican Electoral Commission in the event of irregularities in the work of the constituency and the electoral unit and not only in the work of the electoral committee, as has been regulated so far. However, a further amendment to the basic law is aimed at removing administrative obstacles in support of the request for a referendum. The national jurisdiction relating to permanent residence may constitute an administrative obstacle for a citizen who temporarily resides outside the place of residence. Therefore, the change is supposed to mean the implementation of a government strategy for the development of public administration. The fourth novelty, however, brings criminal provisions that the law did not now contain. This is a penalty in the event of a violation of the referendum's silence. In our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija, we believe that the novel on the one hand, by taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, eliminates inconsistencies with the Constitution and, on the other hand, improves the law itself and thus the legal basis that is still necessary for the quality implementation of the Institute of Referendum and Human Initiative. Therefore, we do not oppose the proposal for amendments and additions in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! With amendments and amendments to the law on referendum and human initiative, we follow two more decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is good and good, but it is good and it is also right to say that the National Assembly in this mandate has followed more closely than before the obligations of the Constitutional Court in order for most of the outstanding cases to fall within the deadline for harmonisation only in 2005 and therefore we do not have such a large backlog. Thirdly, in addition to the decision on deleted, which the National Assembly has not yet been able to implement, the remainder of the decisions that have run out of the deadline for implementation have not yet been harmonised by three other decisions of the Constitutional Court, all after the record that we have received from all of us by the National Assembly. To stress, therefore, that it is not a real constant repetition of some opposition speakers, that the National Assembly does not take into account the harmonisation of laws with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and how many of these cases there are. Perhaps, though, if we make it official and repeat it, the truth will become more important for the opposition and not so easily overlooked. The proposed law will be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. In particular, it is essential to supplement Article 13 of the current law, which allows each electorate and electorate to submit its support to the request for a referendum to the administrative authorities anywhere in Slovenia, not only at the place of his permanent residence. This is a multi-year requirement and a solution that facilitates support. The same applies to the possibility of voting from abroad, which has not yet been foreseen by the referendum law. The legal protection provisions are also clearer. However, despite these changes that we support, it is worth stressing that our referendum system exists in such a way that it poses a strong obstacle to the implementation of the legislative role of the National Assembly. In the process of enacting the law, it is possible to prevent the final decision of the national assembly by a preliminary legislative referendum indefinitely. At times, we have only warned Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats about this; today everyone can know that. Today, this is also undeniably recognised by the Constitutional Court, which emphasises that the introduction of permanent new referendum initiatives and the requirements that the law formally allows can be abused directly by democracy and the right to a referendum; therefore, the right to a referendum as an important human and constitutional right cannot be abused and used to the detriment of the rule of law. But these are the facts. However, the political interests of the parties are all different and more so as the parties talk about democracy and swear into the rule of law, the more these same parties use the referendum institute only for their client interests. And because now most voters and voters have shown that all the polls show that the vague and expensive institute of the previous legislative referendum is necessarily changing because it does not agree with the abuse of the referendum, because the referendums therefore participate in a very modest scale, because most voters and voters want and require serious changes in the referendum regime, it is only right to say again that these changes are not possible without a two-thirds majority, and it is true that it has not been possible to change this provision in the constitution and that it is not possible to change the law as long as such political interests are expressed by opposition parties. They oppose the necessary change because it is more in line with the confusion, inability to work and the responsibility of the national assembly to take the necessary legislative decisions. As a result of these parties, only some non-essential changes will be made today, otherwise good, but all the essential issues of the irregularity of the referendum will remain open. We'll support the marriage. However, we would like to see once the knowledge that we need to do it more fully in line with European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. I finally thought that we would find - Mr Secretary-General, I apologize - I thought we would finally find some consensus and we would agree together on a social position, that the opposition would eventually adopt a bill amending and supplementing the law on referendum and human initiative on the basis of, of course, two decisions of the Constitutional Court, but obviously that is not the case. I say that all changes are - and I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - all changes, if we are talking about constitutional courts now, are or are not essential. We have a deal to make, colleagues and colleagues. In this case, it is a provision which excludes the possibility of voting by mail from abroad and voting at the diplomatic and consular offices of Slovenia abroad. It is essentially for a period within which citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad must report to the Republican Election Commission that they wish to vote by post. And another provision that says that the law fails to regulate the legal protection of the right to vote on support for a referendum that can be submitted to any administrative unit, irrespective of local jurisdiction. The objectives are clear, the principles are clear, the solutions to the law are clear and final, let's say, but that these changes are not less or more important, but they are important that they are good for everyone, including the Slovenian National Party, in which we say that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the referendum and the people's initiative is not controversial. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, however, all we want to say is that we want legislation to be finally created in this area that would prevent any doubt about the outcome of the vote. For such proposals, we assess in the Slovenian National Party that, perhaps different from others, they are very important. In the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative in the desire and desire that, for at least once in this National Assembly, there will be some unanimous support for such and similar laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Representative of the government! The present law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is primarily designed to remedy the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Court. This has led us, as legislators, to resolve this disagreement. Decisions require the amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative with a view to regulating voting at a referendum for Slovenian citizens who have permanent residence abroad, or the elimination of inadequate legal protection of the right to vote. The draft law further removes the administrative obstacle to supporting the request for a referendum and shortcomings in the relevant criminal provisions in the event of a violation of the referendum's silence. In the Slovenian People's Republic, we estimate that provisions that improve access to the Institute of Referendum as forms of direct decision-making are always welcome for citizens and citizens. The participation of citizens and citizens in the referendum is one of the main offences of democracy, and we therefore consider it unacceptable that the country should not respect the decision at the referendum. The regulation of voting from abroad, the additional legal protection relating to the right to raise objections due to irregularities and the removal of unnecessary administrative obstacles, are certainly positive news. In our party we welcome them and, of course, measures aimed at facilitating the involvement of all citizens and citizens in the codecision process. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will undermine the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law imposed by the Constitutional Court by that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the Group of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 10 minutes after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. At 13.35, we will continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly, which will consider the 12th item of the agenda - on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on taxation on paid wages. Until then, I am adjourning, and I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u129	Dear Members and Members! Let's get back to work. Between us, I welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Remunerated Salaries, the Final Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite a representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs. Milojka Kolar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u130	Well-known, distinguished Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill to reduce the wage burden on paid wages by raising the untaxed part from 130,000 to 165,000 tolars. As you know, the Law on the Tax on Remunerated Wages was adopted in 1996 and enforced on 1 July this year. The law imposed an obligation on employers or payers to pay and pay the gross wages paid. The tax is charged at a rate which depends on the amount of each gross salary. This tax was introduced at a time when, at the same time, the employers’ contribution to compulsory pension and disability insurance was reduced from 12.85% to 8.85% and, in essence, this tax was a slight compensation for the reduction of this contribution rate for compulsory pension and disability insurance. The law was later amended twice, in 1997, when the rate of taxation changed with July 1st by raising the untaxed part of the amount of wages from 90,000 to 110,000 to 110,000 and increasing the rate of taxation in the highest grade. In addition, a new law was introduced in 2001, which was established as from 1 January 2002, and at the same time, the increase in taxation increased from 110,000 to 130,000 tolars and the applicable upper-class scale decreased by 0.2%. The tax on paid wages is a considerable burden to pay mainly in labour intensive activities, and there have been calls for a reduction since its entry into force. Thus, the social agreement for the period 2003-2005 entered into and agreed that this tax on paid salaries would be reduced, taking into account the public financial situation, and that the lower or non-taxable labour threshold would be increased by the inflation rate in 2003 and 2004 and by the amount of 150,000 tolars as of 2005. In the private sector wage policy agreement for the period 2004-2005, the partners also reached a decision to lower the lower threshold for wage taxation. According to the available data, the tax on paid salaries collected and processed by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shows that, on average, 27.6% of workers were paid at an amount for which this tax was not charged. The number of workers with unpaid salaries has been reduced due to a fixed tax limit, and it is precisely for these reasons that this threshold should be further raised, with which these salaries will not be taxed. Thus, in this proposal, the bill raises this untaxed work from 130,000 to 165,000 tolars. This will mean that the latest known figures for the average wage will be around 49.7% of the average wage untaxed and that the number of workers employed in these sectors will increase significantly. The proposed wage solution will, of course, be mainly a relief from the costs of working in textile and other processing industries, which are relatively burdened by this tax on paid wages in their structure of costs than all others. The law will enter into force on 1 September and the Government therefore proposes to support this esteemed assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee considered that proposal to be the parent of the labour force. In doing so, we have found that it is necessary to harmonise Article 3 in accordance with the Act on Offences and thus provide for appropriate sanctions as fines for the period from 1.9.2004 to 1.1.2005. I suggest that you, your fellow Members and colleagues, support the amended law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the Youth Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Marko Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State. Dearly respected. The Wage Tax Act, which was adopted and enforced in 1996, has been recast twice in its lifetime in this mandate. This law or tax on paid salaries could also be referred to as an automatic budget charger if they tried to pull an analogy with the budgetary automatic printing stabiliser, which in fact means an additional debt. At the time of the introduction of this tax in 1996, the then reference to the National Assembly was likely ahead of a major dilemma - or to tax property or work. Of course, this thesis is true if we think that a real estate tax is slowly forecasting, which, as it was heard, would replace some other tax sources, among other things it should relieve labour taxation. The decision was taken at the time, and today this tax is one of those that increases the cost of work in companies and thus undermines the competitiveness of businesses. I would like to know why the decision was not in a different direction at the time, for example, following the example of Denmark, where activities with the highest wages are taxed and are also in the highest grade, of course, combined with other taxes such as value added tax. Of course, this is combined, complex and complex, but it would be prudent to think in this direction especially in the light of the fact that we want to preserve the social state. According to the proposaler, any amendment to the proposed law could jeopardise the implementation of the budget, as already after this the estimated budget revenue shortfall of 10 billion tolars is estimated. Nevertheless, the applicant admits that this tax, I quote, "the heavy burden of paying wages in the labour intensive sectors." From this we can draw the logic that more than laying out the conditions for the competitiveness of businesses is more important protection of the current ones in the electoral year of oversupply individual budget items. That's a very dangerous logic. On my own, I have repeatedly asked the question of the Member States' competitiveness in the new conditions of entry into the EU, and in particular I recall certain different views between the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance in the spring of this year. It is known that by entering the EU, the pressure on the competitiveness of businesses is strong, particularly in manufacturing activities. The average wage in processing activities is already low in the Republic of Slovenia, with an average wage of 218,000 tolars after April 2004. Nevertheless, the competitive pressures are still high, and we have proposed to the Committee to increase the lower limit on taxation from 130,000 to 200,000 tolars, which in our view would at least partially mitigate and reduce labour costs and give businesses some time to restructure, and provide workers with jobs and possibly at least a small amount of wage for the least paid workers. As we know that there are 40,000 jobs surrounded by the circus, the budgetary impact would be neutral in the event of an increase in unemployment, and we believe that the proposal put forward on the committee was justified. In order to reduce the tax on salaries paid, another amendment followed or in the view of the Government of Precaution in the Social Agreement for the period 0305 also went forward. Let me conclude with the conclusion that the future government is awaiting work in the fiscal area in the next term, as it will have to pursue balance in the Bermuda triangle of social, competitiveness and tax revenues. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Janez Drobnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The government wants to make a gesture of blackmailing up to a small part of employers just before the elections by raising the lower threshold for taxation of salaries from 130,000 to 165,000. It's some kind of beauty repair and nothing else. In fact, this is an urgent consequence of tracking wage growth. The last legal alignment took place in 1997, and since then wages have increased significantly in nominal terms, so that an increasing proportion of wages have fallen under taxation. If we compare the share of wages then and now, it is practically the same as this change. Nothing essential is going to happen. We should have done something like this before. However, the government should look both at budgetary revenues and at expenditure. We in Novi Slovenija are critical to the taxation of wages, as we see that something else has happened in the last four years, something else that the government has predicted. It predicted a reduction of these budgetary expenditure below 42% of the social or gross domestic product. Where did this flow, or where did it move? In the direction of promotion. So now it's kind of at 43.4 or 43.5. Therefore, the economy is extremely burdened and Slovenia is moving in the opposite direction by the approach it is now implementing. Investors avoid Slovenia. Slovenia has this labour law. There are few innovations, few improvements, very low added value. Among investors, foreign investment is our country on the tail of European scales. This would, in fact, be an impulse to maintain relative budgetary spending and budgetary recipients. Therefore, it makes sense to ask the government not to answer: Where will it get 10 billion to whom it will take them? Either she takes them to pensioners, pensioners, maybe she reduces social assistance or hospitals, or she increases the deficit. This is not mentioned in the draft law. So there's no answer. This calls for a question of how this decline in economic growth is. These entrepreneurs, who are getting less and less, are becoming increasingly burdened. Over the last seven years, 20,000 self-employed have disappeared from our economic scene. This is the basis from which the business and economic sectors are built. As this is not the case, the burdens on the individual employer and on the individual citizen are, of course, significantly higher. This could be filled or improved by better tax recovery, in particular for those large debtors, monopolies who were also created by government ties. We would be happy in New Slovenia if we were so consistent and rigorous in the recovery of taxes and other obligations to the budget for large budget debtors as is the case, or as the government has a relationship with small citizens who are potentially in debt to small amounts. The capital in our country is relatively less burdened, living work more, so we should go more radically, bolder in the direction of true decommissioning and the elimination of bureaucratic barriers and the establishment of more flexible working relationships. This has not been done in the last four years, so investors are avoiding us. Once again, in New Slovenia we consider this approach only to be a beautiful correction, which somehow aligns the level with 1997 and nothing but this. This is what employers and citizens have actually found out. However, a more serious intervention would require a change of mind and a different attitude and actions towards improving the economic situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, eight years ago in the National Assembly, a law was passed on the tax on paid wages. However, as already stated in the recital, it is only necessary to state that, at the time of the entry into force of the law, the rate of contribution was reduced both for compulsory pension and disability insurance, as indicated, from 12.85% to 8.15%. This measure also reduces the tax burden on wages by contributing also to social security from 42% to 38%, and the result is that those who had lower personal incomes at the time or even wages contributed to a slight increase in wages at that time. However, inflation and the events that followed have also done their part. Also in the UK Group of Social Democrats, of course, we have repeatedly found that the high tax burden of work that we have on us, that it is also higher by 2% or even higher than the average in another country, and that it is also necessary to relieve wages in this area. At the same time, appropriate activities were carried out. If, of course, we give further information, which is also provided here, it can be concluded that for 2003 alone, 27.6% of workers were paid a salary at an amount for which the tax on paid salaries was not charged. At the same time, appropriate activities were carried out, including in the field of social agreements for 2003 and 2005. The height was also set, the first was set at 150,000 and the inflation growth will continue to rise in 2004 compared to 2003. We believe that such an approach has been necessary, and we also agree with this amendment, that this threshold will also be increased with regard to taxation to 165,000, which, of course, we also realize, on the other hand, that these proposed amendments to the law will also bring about a good 10 billion annual revenue deficit, because adequate redistribution of public revenues will also need to provide adequate resources, part of it in 2004, and in particular in 2005. Especially since the law will enter into force on 1 September 2004. As I mentioned in the introduction, we will support this amendment of the proposed law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u139	The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you again very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Apparently, some of us are persistent. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Someone once said, I think one philosopher, everything in life is relative. And I think that this river is primarily intended for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on Wages paid. In the Slovenian National Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we would very much like to apologize, but if you have done so, we have not seen it, we have seen some projection, some analysis to show us how many people have moved since the last change, i.e. from 130,000 tolars, where the tax was 0% at that time, given the increase in wages, up to 165,000 tolars. But it's not as important as that other element. I know about the data where the employees are, but I'm not going to tell you where, about 290 people, of which there are 20 of them that make more than 750,000 dollars, but that 20, that is less than 10%, means in total what is in this company, in this establishment 50% of the tax. But if we are honest and we are going to look at the practice, it means that, with the good intentions of the government, that the tax rate of 0% will be up to 165,000 tolars, it can, in this context, as the government says it will be on this account that I will not be mistaken, I will be very precise that it will have about 10 billion tolars of budget deficit. It's easy, I mean, 1,000 people whose employer won't pay the tax. But if only at this time, I am speaking comparatively, 20 comes to class over 750 thousand dollars, and the government has peacefully or peacefully covered this deficit and has had even more budgetary revenue. Thus, I cannot say that I am right to say that the government is right when it says that it will have a 10 billion budget deficit on an annual level. This is just as much as if I, like Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, were to say that the government would have 10 billion revenue for this. There's no projection to see from. I believe that there may have been a good intention to raise this foundation threshold to actually stimulate businesses and new investors. The government says that this money that I would pay for taxes, if I did stay, I'm talking about these 10 billion to invest in development, in new investments, I believe in good intentions. But I can't believe that's true, which is what's given in this data, because we don't have any projection. Unless this projection is made somewhere. I would be very happy to speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and probably other colleagues and colleagues to see this projection. Like I started, I'm gonna finish. It's all relative. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it may happen that the government is thus in full state budget, but it can seriously happen that, as the government claims, it will have ten billion deficits. However, I would like to see this claim clearly in my own name, on behalf of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, in the projection. Once again, very few of them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] at the last level above 750 and very much in that first stage, however, the difference may be very similar or different. [[...]] Thank you very much. However, I believe that at least some information about what I have asked, honourable representatives, may also be heard after the final presentations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I regret to disappoint you, Mr Barovic, the government's representatives, because no amendments have been tabled, will not be able to answer and debate further. It's a shame you didn't take advantage of the opportunity on your mother's work. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greeting from the secretary of state with a co-worker and, of course, your colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that we have drafted an amendment to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which unfortunately did not receive sufficient support from the committee. However, I think that the proposed amendment, such as the Slovenian Democratic Party's position on this law, was even less ambitious. For our view is that this law is totally unnecessary - not this law on changes and additions, but in general the law on the tax on paid wages - because the work is in Slovenia according to the top five of the top twenty and that of the Slovenian worker, both with the lowest wage and the highest of the non-competitive in the area of Europe, which adversely affects the key goals our country and our government have set. This means raising our competitiveness to ensure greater and better development of our economy. How do we expect them to invest in us when work is expensive for relatively low net wages? The cost of work compared to the net salary is far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far from our competitors in the common Europe. On the one hand, we have relatively high labour costs and, on the other hand, low net wages. This is particularly true for those who are least paid, and in some ways this novelty covers the law, because this tax relieves all those who earn less than 165,000 tolars. [[Previously on 130,000...]] . This is a step in the right direction, but it's not a step enough. In my opinion, Slovenia has been betting that it will also develop a knowledge-based work, and this remains taxed because we are talking here about salaries that are over 165,000 tolars, and we are not actually interfering with the taxation of these salaries. It is difficult to imagine that when a foreign investor has a choice to invest in some high technology in Slovenia or in any other country of the European Community, and when he calculates the cost of work of a certain researcher or a highly qualified technologist or a better paid educated person in Slovenia, he will of course find that we still have taxed this work, and he will also be able to calculate that such a worker cannot pay well and at the same time limit the cost of work within his activity. I therefore believe that this tax should be fully abolished. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment that would substantially reduce the taxation of wages above 165,000 dollars gross and thus make this work more competitive, meaning that the cost of work would be lower on equal net wages. The government has provided information on how much this would burden the budget for the coming years and has thus justified disagreement with the proposed amendment. However, I think that in this country we will really have to say once, whether we are also following through on the objectives set out in the strategies, or whether the strategy is either pre-election or otherwise a declaration farce, which we then implement through the budget and through the other permissive effects on finance. I think we will also have to seriously restructure the budget's expenditure and revenue in terms of the strategies outlined. We don't want to do this. We have a certain amount of money and we do not want to take seriously what are priorities and what are not. Since the government has not done so in this attempt, it has been able to do so and at the same time announce when it will completely abolish this tax on paid wages. I expected the committee to say: We are now abolishing the tax of up to 165 thousand dollars, but in 2006 or earlier, we will completely abolish this tax. This was not the case, so it is still a measure that is full of the budget and does not have any development policy or economic policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, ten minutes after the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. At 2.15 p.m., we will move on to the 13th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law on the termination of the special tax law on the balance sheet sum of banks and savings banks - a reduced procedure. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u144	We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the law on the special tax on billing totals of banks and food stores, reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite a representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs. Milojka Kolar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on the termination of the special tax law on the balance sheet sum of banks and savings banks submitted by the Government to the national assembly for consideration and reception will abolish for 2005 the specific tax on the balance sheet amount for which the payment was made by banks and savings banks. As you will probably recall, this law was introduced in 1998. The main reasons for repealing this law and this special tax were two: the first reason was fiscal nature, and the second was also a very important reason, and the promotion of increased allocation of tolar funds in the so-called real sector. The aim was to encourage banks and savings banks to invest their surplus mainly in businesses and less within the banking sector. Over these years these results and effects have been achieved. As a result, the government estimates that the economic reasons why the tax was introduced have ceased. In addition, as you know, Slovenia has fully adapted tax legislation to both international standards and EU legislation in this area and is therefore a survivor of this tax and must be abolished. The Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks also gave an initiative to abolish this tax. Given that it has already been planned that this law or this tax will no longer exist, there is also no further shortfall in revenue from the state budget for the coming year. We propose that the assembly adopt this proposal for a law on the abolition of this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force [[We have a report from the committee on our hands.]] . The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Vizjak, would you like to present your position? [[No, no, ……]] We have also concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 10 minutes after the end of the agenda. I hereby end this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. when we move on to agenda 1st, to questions from Members and Members. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. At 3 p.m., we continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u147	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister and Ministers, I welcome you! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 29 Members and Members within the deadline of business. In accordance with Rule 244(2) and 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the order for asking questions is to be drawn up in such a way that two members of the opposition are appointed as members of the ruling coalition. On the first four questions, the members of the opposition and the Member of the post will give the answers to the Prime Minister. To this end, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, will answer the unanswered questions raised at the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. The Members and Members who have asked two questions will, in accordance with the agreement at the meeting of the College of the Assembly, raise the second question after all the Members who have declared themselves have asked one question. Let me make one more call and one more warning. The Member may ask no more than two questions, for which three minutes is available to him for each question. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. The Member may request, and I ask you here for consistency, to complete the reply, where the explanation of the request to complete the reply may not take more than two minutes and the reply of the Prime Minister or the Minister or the Secretary-General may be completed no more than three minutes. In this way, with regard to today's point of reference, I propose that we be as rational as possible in asking individual questions, given the time and scope of the meeting. The same applies to the replies of government representatives. Only then will we be able to complete this point by 7 p.m. when the assembly moves to the election of the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask and call upon all those who will ask the question to comply with the provisions of Article 246, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the Member, if he is not satisfied with the answer, that he may request a supplement to the answer, but not ask an additional or other question. I will not be able to take this issue into account in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to this item of the agenda, they apologized for not being able to attend and answer your questions, Culture Minister Andreja Richter, Finance Minister Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Culture, at the informal meeting of the Council of the European Union for Education, Youth and Culture in Rotterdam, Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, continues to negotiate with the Russian Federation on the issue of clearing debt and is very important for the country, Ivo Wygel, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and participates in the meeting of the Council of Europe for General Affairs and External Relations in Brussels. Let's take this apology for granted. In case he's a member of the Earthquake! [[...]] Let us hope that the earth has calmed down and that we can carry on with our work. Please, colleagues and colleagues, in the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may indicate that he insists on an oral answer. This is almost impossible for today’s session because this is the last regular session. In this case, we will put the matter at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly, which would mean a new term of office. In accordance with current practice, you have also received a review of oral and written questions on the bench today, and of initiatives that have not yet been answered within the deadline. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the Prime Minister of the Mag will answer the first four questions of members of the opposition and a member of the post. Anton Rop. The first question for the Prime Minister will be raised by Bogomir Vnučec, Party of Young Slovenia. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I hope this minor earthquake doesn't mean any more serious signals. The question is: Slovenia has recently entered the defence union, and all citizens are convinced that our defence capabilities have now increased. You have also personally convinced citizens how meaningful it is to enter the collective defence system. However, I must say that I was very surprised when I read the resolution on the equipment and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces that a complete Slovenian Air Force fleet from Brno is planned to move to Cerklje airport near Krka, which is 5 kilometers from the state border and borders with a non-Nata. I believe that the defence power of the Slovenian Army is significantly weakened, as the 5-kilometre distance to the state border is accessible with the simplest weapons. With purely normal military logic, it's an inappropriate location. On the other hand, the issue of economic damage that could have arisen is also raised, as the defence ministry has invested intensively in infrastructure and navigation systems at Brnik Airport for the past 13 years, while the airport of Cerklje has no navigation device that could successfully meet the needs of modern military vessels, not only ours, but also NATO connections. Recently, our country has also purchased modern military helicopters and also intends to continue, and moving to Cerklje airport near Krka would of course mean that we are imposing new costs and burdening taxpayers needlessly. That's why I think, given the fact that this move is, for the first time, unprofessional, unplanned and untransparent. So I ask you: Would it not be possible to resolve a number of questions by maintaining the military air fleet in Brnik? First, to maintain the level of national security at the same level as now and without costs, additional burdens on the state budget, because of course investment in airport infrastructure is not small and can amount to some 10 if not some 100 million euros. However, we maintain an effective system of ensuring national security as well as assistance in civilian needs, for example, modern military technology is also useful for solving both roads and mountains. We know Bernick and I have the most flights for these purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u149	Prime Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. Perhaps I would like to start by saying that, as soon as possible, we will obtain information related to this event, which began at the beginning, in connection with the earthquake. The Minister of Defense has gone to get this information and you will be officially informed of what happened. We've already received some preliminary information, but let's wait for official information. That way, we will react without delay if something like this has happened and this is required. Now, about the question. The question concerns the use of airports for military aviation purposes. There are two documents that talk about it. The first is the one you mentioned. It is a resolution and a vision of the development of our capabilities programmes by 2005, where the basic functions of military aviation are also defined, as well as its organisation and tasks. Another such document is the long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian army, which is in the national assembly at the 38th meeting. According to these two documents, the deployment of military aviation is envisaged, namely, that all those units required for permanent preparedness, plus, of course, control, would remain in Brnik. And that's how it's gonna be. The remaining part of such capacity would have moved to Cerklje ob Krka, where an aviation school would have been established and the transport unit would have stayed there, while at the same time this airport could also be used for civilian purposes. This is in the strategy and this is in the document which was adopted and which we believe is meaningful and also rational. The argument that this is close to the NATO non-membership limit is relatively weak, especially because it is a country, it is Croatia that wants to join NATO, which is also in the partnership for peace, a country that was also present during the last meeting in Istanbul and is already involved in peace actions and missions around the world. I expect this membership to be very soon. Thus, it cannot be argued that part of the capacity would not move there. As I said, Brnik will continue to be used, but in this part that provides control and the ongoing presence of military forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u152	One of the reasons for the move is that there is a shortage of so-called garage spaces or hangars for military transport helicopters in Brnik. On the other hand, we know that a hanger was recently built in Brnik for a famous falcon, as we know now, or you have placed it under your presidency as a lease to an unknown tenant. I hear this hanger is empty while the military helicopters are standing outside. Why are these helicopters, for example, if this hanger is also said to be useless for civilian aviation, why is this hanger not being used for these purposes now, because we know that the falcon has been purchased from military assets and probably the hanger itself? I want to know: Who is responsible for such a mistaken business move? How, however, will you act against those responsible in the obvious case of irregular spending of tax money?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I ask the Prime Minister for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u154	First, an answer regarding an unknown tenant. More than once, it has been said who this well-known tenant is. I think later the Minister of Finance can tell again who this tenant is. The tenant was chosen, and it's not about any unknown tenant. As far as this hanger's concerned. This is not a hanger to be invested in by the State or to be invested in taxpayers' money. It's an airport decision. This investment was also decided by the airport because, according to them, there are no specific problems in renting and commercially exploiting it. This is not the case with an unknown tenant, nor is it the use of tax money. In short, it is some capacity that is available within the airport and I believe that the airport will make reasonable commercial use of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The victory of Jelinčič the Noble will question the Prime Minister. He has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. International law says that the division of the sea according to the principle of the middle line does not apply when someone can prove by historical documents that a certain part was his. As far as this is concerned, Slovenians can be shown peacefully that, in fact, the whole of Istria was Slovenian, but not that we are going to destroy and destroy the national interest with various so-called border lines that no one really knows about. This is the private operation of Mr Drnovsk and Račan. The work of Mr Drnovšk can only be compared with that of the Prince of Pavlet, who gave the Serbian part of Dubrovnik to the Croats in 1939 and Konavlje and Ilok and so on. I ask: How long will Slovenian policy agree to such a low-level removal to Croats, when it is clear that Slovenia's national interest is the primary but not the private interests of some politicians? We expected Mr Wigl to intervene sharply in this matter when they put the shells back in the Slovenian Sea. It should be borne in mind that it is not an action of any fishermen, but that it is a coordinated and carried out or guided action by the Croatian Government to establish a new school in the Gulf of Piran. There are several documents that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hiding and does not want to use against Croats as a counter-claim. By what time will our ministry follow what has already been done by Mr. Rupel and what has Mr. Rupel been driving all the time? So in order to lose most of Slovenia's indigenous Slovenian territory. In the Slovenian national side, we have kept this in mind and the moment when Slovenia will kneel and allow Croats to enter the European Union or enter into negotiations for accession to the countries of the European Union. It turned out that the Slovenian National Party was right. The fact is, we can't let anything like this happen. And I ask the President: What will he do or what will he do to prevent this from happening and when will Slovenian foreign policy start defending Slovenian national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you, Victory. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you so much for asking. The question is quite similar to the one at the last session when we were talking about the ecological fishing zone. At that time, and I specifically said and highlighted what had been done with regard to the ecological fisheries zone, and we can undoubtedly consider this to be an achievement. The ecological fishing zone has not been established for Slovenia; the ecological fishing zone will not even apply to Slovenia. Slovenia has succeeded with European policy. With European policy, we have managed to move the implementation of the ecological fisheries zone until an agreement has been reached or arrangements have been reached, how and how to take care of the Adriatic Sea in accordance with the interests of all countries. And what is important, in the official documents at the conclusion of the European Union or the Council of the European Union, was explicitly stated and introduced in order to take account of the vital interests of all neighbouring countries, Croatia, Slovenia is also said to be. We have demanded that vital interests go to documents, have gone and, of course, this makes it very clear to us that it is still important that our vital interests in this area be realized. This is an integral part of Croatia's journey to the European Union. Croatia will have to negotiate more than 30 chapters. Slovenia will participate in all chapters. It is our interest that Croatia enters the European Union, but in the European Union in a European way, with European policy, European standards and norms. We will continue to do so. This also applies to the border and all that will be necessary in relation to it. If there is arbitration, if there is no final agreement, which of course is possible, then we will insist on those positions that we are always in. And these will be the elements of arbitration and all of our conversations with Croatia. I am convinced that in this dialogue, especially after it has entered the European Union, Slovenia can exercise its interests, protect its interests and allow and free access to the sea, and the normal functioning of fisheries and, of course, the irreversible Gulf of Piran. Of course, shellfish are a problem in this context. Foreign Minister Ivo Wigl pointed out this on Friday and, of course, we will also have a discussion in this regard within and within the SOBSA, within the framework of a permanent commission which, of course, has its task in this regard. We have said and expressed our dissatisfaction with the shellfish, which you also refer to as an act that is not in the spirit of SOBSA, is not in the spirit of negotiation and, of course, the advance warnings that should be given in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you, President. The victory of the noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u160	Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question. I was not talking about the ecological fishing zone, I was talking about the border issue with Croatia and the question of the exit to the open sea or more broadly about national interest. However, national interest is not as narrow a matter as it is an ecological fishing zone. The fact is that Croatia's negotiations will be conducted through Slovenia, as I know it, and according to our position of foreign policy will not be Tangled. The fact is also that, as the national interest is discussed, even when it comes to other segments, it is also necessary to ask why Mrs Richter's Minister of Culture from the United List does not wish the Italians to demand the return of stolen art. She doesn't care where Petkovska's painting is stolen. On the Bolshevik market, however, it conducts certain raids and orders checks on purchased collections that have not yet been paid by the Ministry at the National Museum.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u161	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] of its original question [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u162	This is an explicit matter of national interest, which connects and intertwines in several segments, Mr Prime Minister. [[...]] And also on this segment is the sale of Slovenian national interest, a little here, a little there. I think it makes sense that our country is also preparing itself, not for any arbitration, but for certain arbitration, but from the position that we have the documents that we can demand back our historical territories, not in the way that you say we will squeeze the Croats when they enter, when they talk and when they close the chapters. At the end of the day, Poland has not closed all its chapters and is already in the European Union and is in a better position than Slovenia, which has already closed all its chapters by conforming to every position of the European Union and that Mr Potočnik has agreed to all the pressures from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u163	The Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u164	Perhaps I will be well in this introduction that we received the first data, probably you too, and it was an earthquake in western Slovenia in the area between Bovec and Kobarid. The earthquake was 4.7 amplitude, which is slightly less than it was in 1998, but it is a matter of some injuries and of course we will react immediately and see what damage has been caused and, of course, also offer appropriate assistance. Now, on that question. Mr Member, of course, I agree with you in the part where you say that in the part about arbitration, which is relatively very likely, Slovenia must perform with the position that it has access to the open sea, that the documentation which proves this must also be insisted upon by an expert to ensure that this exit to the open sea. In this part, I fully agree with you. This is what we say all the time, and this is what we do, and in the event of arbitration, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Janez Podobnik has the floor to ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I am asking you a question in writing as it has been announced: How do you assess the impact of corrupt and clientistic links in Slovenia on the functioning of a free economic initiative? I would like to know whether, as Prime Minister, you are assessing that Slovenia can lose its development momentum and potential as a result of this phenomenon. Allow me to briefly substantiate my question with the results of one of the surveys on the perceptions of corruption, which shows that the entanglement of the economy and the supervisory institutions of the market economy to the government and the ruling parties is still high. This is the latest report by the World Bank, which shows a rise in perceptions compared to previous measurements. This study shows that small businesses and newly established companies are most at risk, which have to pay bribes more frequently and to a greater extent than large companies with state-owned enterprises. This study clearly proves that corruption, particularly in the capture of companies to the country, is threatening business operations and the situation in Slovenia is deteriorating. Last but not least, it's getting more and more public. With such a traveller, we believe that Slovenia will find it difficult to implement the established development strategies, which are all based on a high development consensus without politically privileged and without individuals who will have to pay more to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you very much. And I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you so much for asking. You can answer your question with many studies. You mentioned one of these, for example, I can show you, or you can look at the European Parliament's decision regarding Slovenia and other transition countries and corruption, where it is explicitly observed that this case is relatively and significantly smaller in Slovenia. Then it is a well-known study by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, after which Slovenia is also in the upper part of those countries where this phenomenon is the least burdensome, last but not least, the most competent institution, Transparency International, especially in this latest publication, talks about Slovenia. You can look at what he's saying, and if you want, even the global economic forum. However, there is also a specific study, a study, an econometric results that went exactly this way for the different countries of transition, and the impact of corruption on investment and economic development has been verified. And for Slovenia, it has been found that the extent of corruption is so large that it does not have a significant and important impact on economic development. Of course, this does not mean that they would claim that there are no such phenomena. On the contrary, precisely because we were aware of this, we set up a Anti-Corruption Office, adopted and prepared a special law. I myself have insisted that this law and the preparation of this law be governed by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Ivan Bizjak, who comes from your party. Even when we were preparing a resolution on the fight against corruption that you have dealt with, exactly the Minister from your party was preparing this resolution. Last but not least, for the last eight years, your ministers, the Ministers of the People's Party, have been in the government and they had scissors and canvas in their hands, at least as far as the judiciary is concerned, that they co-formed to co-create policy in this area. I estimate that, and that they have contributed something, they have led these projects directly, not least. So I think that we have a relatively good institutional framework, that these changes that we have recently made are good, that your ministers have also contributed to this, and that there are still many tasks ahead of us in the specific persecution of such phenomena. This means the effective functioning of all institutions. It is true, however, that all analyses show that, even if in individual cases the executive authorities are relatively effective, criminal complaints have been lodged, investigations have been carried out to stop things often in the field of justice. Justice is therefore one where movement and efficiency are needed. In this part, I doubtless agree. However, there are very specific analyses and studies that you can look at, even for Slovenia, and that prove what I said - that corruption in Slovenia is not working to this extent in order to hinder economic development. Last week we were able to listen to a report from Brussels, from an information technology conference when a representative of a foreign company operating in Slovenia [[You can see it in flips]] , explicitly stated why he operates in Slovenia. He said that this is one of those countries where there is no corruption where he has not encountered corruption and that this is one of the key reasons why they continue to work and why they love working in Slovenia. But, of course, once again, it doesn't mean there's no such thing. Of course, it is right that we are aware of them, and it is right that we are also talking about them, that we are concrete and that we also see where the reasons are still, that they still appear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you, Prime Minister. Janez Podobnik wants to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u170	A short supplementary question, which relates to the reply of the Prime Minister, for whom I thank him. You mentioned a good formal framework for working institutions. Here I would like to point out that one of the options that we believe would improve the fight, the confrontation of Slovenian government or state institutions with corruption, was also an opportunity to write some of the solutions related to the status of the judiciary differently through the amendment of the Constitution. Unfortunately, this has not been successful in this attempt. The Prime Minister mentioned some of the research that shows Slovenia's good position on corruption perceptions. The study, which I have mentioned myself, has another very interesting information, which applies to Slovenia, which says that companies operating in larger cities are more exposed to bribe payments. And this study also says that industrial companies pay multiple bribes to obtain transactions in public procurement procedures, but are less caught in the loops of relations with the country. It is also interesting that the survey mentions countries where this perception has increased and where it has deteriorated. And it got worse in Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Belarus, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Russia. It improved in Estonia, Croatia, Armenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Macedonia, Romania. The question that was linked to our answer is, of course, also related to the functioning of the Office and the special anti-corruption commission. Unfortunately, we find that this commission is not yet operational. I ask you, when is the commission going to start working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I ask the Prime Minister for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u172	I'd be happy to take a look at this study and compare it with the others. I didn't say the situation in Slovenia was good. I argued that the situation in Slovenia is relatively good and that we are aware of the problem and should also fight it. And such warnings, as you state here, are certainly those warnings that the competent authorities must take into account and, of course, within their powers, also act in pursuit of such phenomena. You're asking me about the commission. The Commission is an independent body and this has also been laid down in law. I believe that, in accordance with all the legal deadlines, the Commission will also act, as I have not been informed otherwise so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Porča, to ask the Prime Minister a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! We welcome the efforts and decisions made not to impose an increased premium on insured persons over 60 years of age in the Mutual. This was also one of the requirements of the United List of Social Democrats. However, the problem of financing supplementary health insurance is not solved. The United List of Social Democrats already in 1998 with amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act and in 2000 at the time of the adoption of the Insurance Act warned that supplementary health insurance must respect the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. She opposed the proposed amendment to this principle required by the then coalition government, which means that the situation of the sick and the elderly is significantly deteriorating, which is unacceptable. Therefore, the United Kingdom has also supported the proposal for greater solidarity in the context of health reform, so that most supplementary insurance rights are included in the compulsory premium insurance amounting to the same percentage of gross wages. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that supplementary health insurance is based on reciprocity, if there is also a need for compensatory insurance premiums. The government is not united in the application of this principle, according to our conduct. The Minister of Finance recently said that wrong legislative solutions had been adopted and that he opposed greater solidarity, and the Minister of Health argued that the handling of these issues was not within his purview or failed to carry out the planned health reform. Since the temporary decision to increase premiums is not a permanent solution to the problem because we are aware of the differences in government because we want to increase solidarity in health care for fundamental rights, because we welcome the conclusions of the competent national working body of the national assembly and because we do not want such a serious issue to become and remain only a pre-choice issue, you, Mr President, ask: As Prime Minister, will you ensure that this problem is addressed by joint and coordinated government proposals? Will these proposals promote greater solidarity in line with the objectives of health reform? Will they also contain a proposal for a law on compensatory schemes? Will these solutions be adopted in a timely, indicative time to avoid an unacceptable selective increase in premiums for insured persons over 60 years of age? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you so much for asking. As far as your assessment is concerned that in this case the government does not act in a coordinated manner, I don't think it's right. We have coordinated our discussions on the White Paper on health reform and have coordinated both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. It is relatively logical that the initial position of both ministries was different. The first, of course, looked at the problem from the point of view of health care itself, the functioning of health care. Secondly, from the perspective of some other influences: influential inflation, wage policy, if you also want the success of entering ERM2 and the euro. That's why we had to find a common solution. And this common solution went exactly this way, which, of course, you have now stressed here. This is to go in the direction of payment of premiums depending on the level of gross personal income as a fundamental criterion to be respected. These are some of the solutions that they know very rarely, but also in some countries, and we have come up with this solution together when we consider the White Paper. Both ministries agreed with her. And I myself assess that it is necessary to go in this direction, that what we have written in supplementing the White Paper and health reform also needs to be realized. Whether at this point it is time to hurry with this would say an implicit compensatory scheme or not, the question is being asked. We have this week's meeting of the Strategic Government Council for Health Reform, where we will also discuss this topic in particular in terms of timeframes. The fact is, the Supervisory Board of the Mutual has decided as it is. We all had a unified view here that the proposal that was inappropriate. I have also said this several times that this kind of solidarity is not solidarity, but is, in fact, non-solidarity and that it is unacceptable to solve problems in this regard. Of course, it is also not acceptable to solve problems in this way, as some have imagined, in order to introduce a compensatory scheme whereby only intergenerational spillovers would result in young people paying for the elderly. The compensatory scheme itself, so established, would not solve anything, because it would mean a remarkable increase in premiums in the other two insurance companies, and that would still not be enough, so we should also solve the problem with the Mutual. This problem, which has occurred, is a case that has not led to a once-in-a-lifetime increase in premiums, has very seriously pointed out that health reform, as we have suggested, should also be implemented. I doubt it is possible to complete it before the elections. We are already doing it in our work where there is no need for specific legal frameworks, but in this part it will certainly be necessary to seek a solution after the elections and, last but not least, we will all be together or each one will tell us how we imagine this solution. As the government represents it or the coalition, it is the one you spoke of, through greater solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u177	Thank you very much. A quiet Pott called for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u178	Mr President, because this is a really important question, in my opinion, for more than 500,000 pensioners, the elderly, and the sick, I would like to make one more point. In 1998, the then LDS and the government did not take the view that there was a need for greater solidarity and reciprocity within the framework of supplementary insurance. It represented a position to introduce additional insurance in accordance with other principles. I must say that we have resisted and warned that in 1992 we went to the supplementary insurance system under a certain assumption that the compulsory insurance does not cover us anymore the necessary amount of funds and rights, and therefore we encourage as many insurers as possible in the supplementary. I am pleased that our government has also come up with a proposal for a health reform that ensures that, through a different payment of health insurance premiums, the extent to which we will jointly agree will be covered. Today, no one knows whether it will be exactly the same or whether it will be something smaller or something bigger, but that it will be entirely covered, in order to eventually introduce some complementary law, supplementary insurance for some superstandard and special rights. I ask, do I quite understand that this is also our common policy and that the government will defend it in this mandate, if necessary later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, for this part of the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you, for that comment. Of course, I find it difficult to assess what someone has proposed for some year. Certainly, however, as was the proposed compensatory scheme at the time, it was not most appropriate. As I know from the stories of others, some additions were subsequently adopted in the National Assembly itself and the question is whether all the solutions were professionally consistent. Last but not least, if such solutions were professionally consistent, then the Insurance Supervisory Agency and all those who tried to bring compensatory schemes to this system over the years could not have come to a solution long ago, but could not have come up for various reasons, which are very broad and we can discuss them, from the information system, from the types of compensatory schemes and, of course, the types and criteria that would apply in this case. All of these discussions that we have made speak for the fact that without health reform it is simply impossible to do so. We have a relatively specific supplementary insurance, not an additional insurance covering by its nature a service belonging to compulsory insurance, and this requires particular consideration and also a targeted health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank the Prime Minister for the answers to the four questions raised. Before continuing, I inform you that the ministers, Janez Kopač, for the environment, space and energy, and Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, have gone to the site of the epicenter to Posočje, because the information is such that it is right to look at and, if necessary, also act on the consequences of the earthquake. We continue with the reply of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlad Dimovski, to the questions raised at the 37th meeting under Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. The answer is the Mag. Andrej Vizjak in relation to the unemployment rate. Would you like to briefly summarize your question? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Several times in Parliament, and also in the public eye, you would like to commend that the registered unemployment rate is falling, that Slovenia has a relatively low unemployment rate under the ILO international methodology, and that there are no major problems in this area. However, unlike you, I do not share this opinion, because the situation in both employment and unemployment is not improving in Slovenia, but the figures on registered unemployed do not give us any real picture. According to our statistics, who should serve us are not among the unemployed who are erased from records. That is why, last of all, I am asking the Minister whether he is running any special statistics on these or where these people are even covered. Because many unemployed people, especially those who are long-term unemployed or who are harder to work, in fact because of their apathy and, last but not least, the lack of skills, job offers and job offers cannot be found and can no longer find employment, and therefore they are no longer returning to the institution's calls and thus remain at home, left to themselves and to all the negative phenomena that follow. Therefore, I think that a much more credible picture is based on the international survey and the ILO methodology, and the unemployment rate in Slovenia is increasing in the last year. In fact, it is also alarming that certain groups, especially the elderly, are unemployed and also disabled, far above the average of the European Community. In fact, according to the condition of the older unemployed [[I'm talking about those over 55 years old.]] The situation in Slovenia is also alarming in comparison with the new members of the European Community, as the employment of this population is approximately 24.5% and 25% respectively, which means that only one quarter of the population over 55 years of age works. And only Slovakia, I think it is even worse in this area between the Member States of the European Community. The accumulation and concealment of social benefits also discourages people to take hold of work. In short, the unemployment situation in Slovenia is actually deteriorating. One of the key reasons is that we do not include those unemployed who are removed from registered unemployed in the labour market effectively and efficiently. I therefore ask the Minister: What is this record, if any, why does it not exist, if it does not exist, and what will you do with those so-called deleted and registered unemployed?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you for asking. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u184	Dear Member! I think I have answered this question for the third time in this mandate, as far as records are concerned, but your question has been broader. It covered the whole area of social benefits, so the question is whether I can adequately answer or at this time, which is available to all the questions mentioned here. Let me first mention this number, which is by international organisation, and this number is about 65,000. This is the number of unemployed, which is comparable to all figures in all European Union countries. By number, this is 6.5%, and this marks us as two percentage points or almost more than 25% of the European Union's sub-average. This is a fact and this is according to the same methodology as they do for all the countries of the European Union. We're just comparing it here. However, as regards the second so-called registered or registered unemployed, there are different methodological assumptions in different countries. Let me say that in Slovenia the difference between registered unemployment and unemployment according to the international organisation of work is the greatest. This is said to be the case, and the European Union directive is that this number must be kept as low as possible between registered unemployment and unemployment by international labour organisation. This has also led to some changes that you have also supported in 2002. The Law on Insurance and Employment for the Time of Unemployment has, of course, followed this European Directive. And there is a very clear statement that the goal is to come with a record at that level, a cobod included by so-called active job seekers. And that's the point. As regards the termination of the record of unemployed persons, the unemployed person is no longer unemployed or self-registration from the register, refusal of inclusion, failure to provide real data, fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining a pension and so on. Let me say that in the UK, for example, only those who receive a cash refund are considered to be so-called registered unemployment, that is about 3%, which would be appropriate in our case. But then, of course, they would ask me that the situation is alarming again because the unemployment rate is too low on your terms. Let me also say that I have never talked about the fact that this is not a problem, honourable Member. I have always said that an active employment policy is always necessary as long as only one is unemployed, which is why our job is also in the future and hopefully all the following governments, this fight of unemployment. This is one of the basic objectives that Slovenian society must have. But let me say that, in fact, in all these records, because we are now talking about multiple records, after all, there is one record that is based on censuses and this is another issue about so-called unemployed, which is methodologically different. And now, in fact, in any such shift from the employment searcher's register to another record, under some other laws, which the law introduced in 2002, we cannot and must not classify in the institution without proper agreement with an institution which recognises special rights. The record is therefore not the basis for me to say that, for obtaining certain certain ratings or rights. By simply transferring those persons who have not obtained the status of an employee for health and other reasons for more than two years, it is possible to transfer them to another record only upon the express landing of that person. It is, of course, a human measure, in my opinion, because this person must appear every now and then in the institution, which is, of course, a problem for some, in the case of a disabled person. That is why, of course, this has also been accepted. However, it is also a matter of temporary unemployed persons, for example when they were sent to a specific employer, and they did not undergo a medical examination and were not selected by the employer. In such a case, of course, this is also a special case. If I finish. However, since you spoke earlier about the so-called links to social transfers, this year we have made it possible that so-called passive benefits may also be an incentive for employers to work and that part for the long-term unemployed can be allocated essentially as a subsidy for employment. And one more thing when you talk about, let me finish, I'm a little over [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But when you talk about the individual structures of the unemployed, I would actually warn you, here we have this monthly information that I can then give you. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where it is clear that for all structures in 2004, the situation is improving, but, of course, at no rate, when only one person is unemployed, we cannot be satisfied. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. Mag. Visjak wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u186	See, for the first time, I would like to say that this same government has set itself up at the beginning of its mandate so that the unemployment rate according to the ILO methodology will be 5% by 2006. Now it's grown to 6.7% from 6.4%. In short, we are moving away and moving away from the goal that has been set. I also have employment statistics. Employment should reach 65% by 2005, which is the Lisbon target and 70% by 2010. It is true that Slovenia is in a slightly better opposition here higher than other countries in the European Community, in particular those new members. However, I think we are moving away from these goals, not getting close to them. Of course, the status, the Minister-designate, is very important because the status is also linked to the possibility of drawing on active employment policy funds and all of this, and it is regrettable that, in particular, those long-term unemployed are allowed all possible other passive measures than active ones, that is to say the transition to active forms of employment. As long as we are unable to do so, we will have, especially among the elderly, such a large percentage of the unemployed or so low percentage of the employees and, of course, of the disabled. It is here in this House that we have proposed to introduce mandatory quotas for public authorities for persons with disabilities, or for employers who employ public funds, but this has not been the case. And the answer to one more question. Dear Minister, you owe me an answer. I stopped it a while ago, months ago, a question regarding the regulation of the situation of the deceived workers of the morning worker in Brežica from [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] You promised me an answer to what you would propose by amending the legislation so that such cases would no longer occur in the future. [[...]] Unfortunately, I did not receive this answer, not alone, nor the deceived workers who wrote to you again, and also to me, and I would ask you to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u188	There are more questions here. I'll try to answer that. First time. As far as active employment policy is concerned. Every single person who wants to do this has that right. Even those who have been transferred to another record under some other laws. This is a human relationship that needs to be maintained with people with disabilities and those who, say, because of medical or any other case, cannot obtain a job. This is where I think we agree. The second is that of the employment of the elderly. However, I have also said this several times before that we are farthest from the so-called Lisbon objectives here. You're right. The Lisbon targets say that over 55 years old, between 55 and 64 years old, the employment rate is expected to be 50%. There's 24% in our country. The reason lies in the early retirement of the whole industry in the early 1990s. However, the situation is gradually improving primarily with the so-called active ageing process, which we are gradually introducing. And secondly, with an extension, an average extension, an actual extension of retirement. That's what they say, they work here at the same time, but we can't expect changes overnight, of course. However, as far as these findings are concerned, as far as unemployment is concerned, I have also repeatedly stressed that the unemployment rate is directly linked to the level of activity or economic growth. We are a rare one, if not even the only country that has actually succeeded through the ILO, this is said by the international organisation of the work to maintain the unemployment rate as it was before. Most countries have gone up. Most countries have gone up because economic activity has essentially decreased. This, of course, has a direct impact. And there's something else we can't forget. In this mandate, a whole series of laws have been adopted, which in one way or another are supposed to increase the rate of unemployment, and in some ways the economy has absorbed this – let's say the law on employment relations and the like - because you know what the assumptions were, and in some cases, the economy has in fact carried it well in this transition. Of course, it is a question that we must ask ourselves, which is definitely a question of the level of education of the labour force. Here, in my opinion, is the weakest point, and here, of course, by incorporating the so-called secondary programmes of active employment, education and thus trying to achieve a better position in the labour market in order to obtain employment in the so-called formal education.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u189	Minister, thank you so much for answering these questions. The next question from the previous session will be raised again by the Magi. Janez Drobrnič, regarding the amount of the pensioner’s allowance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Mr. Secretary, I'll repeat the question. It's very short. However, it refers to an allowance for recreation for pensioners who have risen differently. For those with small pensions, normal pensions rose by 4.3%, and for those with high pensions privileged, such as former officers, outstanding NOB fighters' pensions, this supplement increased by 12%. How do you justify this or how these authorities have decided to harmonise, which limits discrimination and is certainly the opposite of solidarity?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u191	Thank you for the question, and I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Of course, I checked this question of yours at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, because, as you know, the right or allowance for recreation is the right that the law refers to and the height is determined by the Assembly of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The increase in the previous year since we are talking about the previous year or 2004, this is said to be this year, for the first time to be an valorisation by 4.9 plus an absolute increase of 500 million and an increase that is the result of the expected growth of the beneficiaries of the recreational supplement, that is 2.4%, i.e. a total increase of 8.9% in environmental resources, which means that the total mass this year for the so-called recreational allowance is around 25 billion. Since 2001 this allowance has also been paid in one single amount. As you know, he used to pay in double the amount. As far as you're concerned, I must say it's the other way around. To those who have lower pensions, it is said, those who have lower pensions than the average, of course, have increased this recreational allowance by 12.4% in total, we said before, 8.9%. For those above average, the recreational allowance did not in fact increase, and so the ratio between the lowest and the highest fell from 1:2 to 1:1,79, which was also one of the requirements of the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, and this goes in the direction of gradually approaching the regression, which was also the orientation, so it has increased more really than it has increased in the essence of the pension. That's the data. Of course, I will ask the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to send us the relevant data directly to this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. A little something?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u194	Given the diametric contrast, I expect the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the Minister to give a written reply, which I will then, of course, also make public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u196	All I want to say is the amounts. Both supplements, that's what we're saying. We have a higher and lower supplement. The first is SIT 71.140 and the second is SIT 39.980. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Now the questions raised for today's session. Maria Pozsonec, Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye to all of you. Dear Minister Dr. Mark Pavlich! As I am many times your predecessors, I would also like to draw your attention to the difficult and unsustainable traffic situation in Prekmurje. Construction of the foot of the suburban highway has been delayed for 10 years, although freight traffic increased by 90% since Slovenia's entry into the EU. So from 30,000 trucks, the number has grown to 51,000 a month, which means two trucks per minute. From your response to the protest by the Premur population, it is clear that you are still not taking their initiatives seriously enough. Thus, the people there are left with no choice but to point out the insurmountability of the current situation by means of protest actions. In the future, Minister Bohinc will also punish those who fear for their safety, survival and their living and working environment when they point out the unsustainable situation, as last happened in Gornji Lakoš. For ten years, two roads on Goriček were to be built at a distance of 6.5 km between the Prosenjakovci and the Centre and between the Prosenjakovci and the village of Čikečko. The whole province is economically lagging behind and is demographically threatened. As a result of this situation, young people leave the area and investors avoid it. You must understand that we too do not want to remain undeveloped, and such an ignorant attitude is an insult to this country and a sin against the people there who lack patience. It will be bad when they stop simply alerting them to the unsustainable situation and decide to protest the closure of the border crossing of the Long Village; usually this action is successful, because there is nothing else left for them, and then free members of the government will fly there because it will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Pavliha, Minister of Transport, will answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members, Mrs Pozsonec! Thank you very much for your question, with which the Ministry has been briefed. As you know, we were there for a good fourteen days, we spent the whole day talking to citizens and mayors; we got a type of data as well as short-term and long-term requirements. I would start by saying that the data that traffic has increased by 90% is totally not true, it has increased by a good 70. But whatever the problem is, it's very, very hot and heavy and I felt it on my skin. But, as it were, the dialogue was over. We have prepared these answers very, very extensively, I think on about ten, fifteen pages, we have also sent you to know. Therefore, today, because I have limited time, perhaps only in a quick run, in what way we intend to implement their short-term requirements and in what way also the long-term ones. With regard to short-term solutions, the first requirement was to prohibit freight traffic between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m. It should be pointed out here that this is linked to the planning and construction of additional outposts for freight vehicles. In order to determine the possibility of these withdrawal spaces and their location, this measure cannot be implemented overnight for the purpose of obtaining the location documentation. With regard to the traffic ban on Saturdays and Sundays, we have already taken the initiative to supplement the regulation, to limit freight traffic on Saturdays on the road between Maribor and Lendava, but this proposal will still need to be harmonised and also to take into account such a problem on the Hungarian side. We believe that this measure can be implemented by the end of July 2004. With regard to the unloading of the main road Lenart - Lendava, at least to the situation that existed before 1 May this year; here, of course, we take into account the possibility of diverting the trucks to the railway and rerouting the entire freight traffic to the regional road Vučja vas - Ormož - Slovenjska Bistrica and vice versa. The rerouting of trucks to the railway means the introduction of a special train with special, low-floor wagons, which requires the initial and final railway station to build 500 metres of rail track with a loading ramp. In view of the course of the railway station, an appropriate part of road freight traffic will have to be diverted to Hodoš Station and, of course, the introduction of this train also means a change in the existing timetable. This means that it would be possible to unload a road somewhere between 100 and 150 trucks a day, but it should again be noted that the complexity of this project does not allow the introduction of such a train before this year's September. With regard to another option, i.e. the shift of traffic to another route of the Vukova Vas - Ormož etc., the Road Directorate will issue an order to remove traffic signalling to limit this traffic, which means that legally this will be possible, but unfortunately we do not expect the heavy freight traffic to be diverted to this road connection to a greater extent. In this letter we also responded to other short-term requirements with regard to the written specific requirements and proposals made by the municipalities. Let me say that we have already received such proposals from six municipalities and that the Road Directorate is already dealing with them and will soon react. We haven't forgotten the protection of mineral water either. A number of projects are planned, but the only real one that would lie down is the long-term implementation of the placement procedures into space is a long-term process and the motorway itself would solve this problem, as the problem would be solved by mandatory rerouting of freight transport to the motorway and in particular transport of dangerous substances. Because I'm running out of time, just a little bit more if you let the president in on a long-term solution. It is too often misleading to the public that the national programme states that the whole motorway leg will be upgraded by 2013. This is not true, for by 2010 four passports will be built to the Beltinians and from the Beltinians to the Hungarian two-passenger border, and by 2013 they will remain part of the two-passenger line. I would just like to say that, in view of the national programme adopted, because it is a very large issue, it is impossible to expect a short change or, as you call it, a rebalance to this resolution. However, it is true that the Government is obliged to implement this national programme for the construction of motorways and will be the first such option if it turns out that phase A has failed, of course in 2006 the national programme will be amended or supplemented, if necessary, in this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you, Minister. Maria Pozsonec, are you requesting a follow-up?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u202	Just so that nothing will succeed until you talk about how you will hurry with plans and documentation, because there can be a shorter time and faster to get the result. And that's all it's gonna be, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Maria. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u204	As it is said, it is likely that any reductions are possible, but the proposal or requirement that the motorway be fully built by 2006, for the first time, is not in line with the national programme adopted and, secondly, is completely unrealistic. You know what we can tell you these days that sometimes three years go by to get to the state's location plan. But this, as you know, is not in the hands of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and will be posed by Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Pogačnik! In Slovenian agriculture, farmers, cooperatives and economic organisations dealing with agriculture face an extremely difficult situation. The daily decline of eight to ten farms is about 10% of the Slovenian country. In addition, we have witnessed two or three severe droughts during the last four - year period. At the same time, in the field of agricultural policy, a number of superstandards have been enacted, and a whole series of laws and regulations have been adopted, which are in sharp disharmony or more stringently strict than the European directives require. Let me only remind you of the specificity of Slovenian agriculture, which is reflected in the fact that we are still requesting or requesting a medical certificate in inland transport, which is a fact that in the last period veterinarians are no longer seeing the animals for which they issue a certificate, an unnecessary cost for a farmer. I would like to point out once again that the practice of issuing internal transport medical certificates is unique and Slovenia itself is still applying this practice. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the extremely acute and expensive conditions of slaughter of bovine animals. This is an extremely dissimilar situation, for example, with neighbouring Austria, where we are witnessing that the slaughter in our country is 5 to 6 times more expensive than it is in neighbouring Austria. Such direct payments, instead of covering the cost of production, are not even sufficient to cover the costs for the provision of these superstandards. On your appearance, Mr. Minister, you have promised to go ahead and prepare legislation that will eliminate all this nonsense, all these superstandards, which additionally and needlessly burden the Slovenian farmer. I ask for an answer to a question: When will this happen, given that it has been for several months now, which you have served as Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u207	Thank you for asking. You have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik. Ladies and gentlemen! You could answer wider, narrower, or whatever. If I start with what the economic conditions of farming are in Slovenia, I can see that Slovenia has fully adopted the legal regime in the field of agriculture and that all these things have happened before for various reasons. In particular, sometimes because of promises that simply could not be fulfilled, I tell you honestly, and it has proved that when we enter, we will have to settle these matters. After 1 May, we shall implement the same measures as other members of the European Union on the basis of the requirements of the European Union, the same requirements and the same legal order. This is, for example, intervention on the market, warehouse support and external trade protection and so on. As regards direct payments, we are actually relatively successful, at least we are already paying 75% of the payment value. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and we expect him to reach 100% by 2007, of course, with a difficult burden on the national budget, which I think is fine, and I hope that the policy will continue to apply. [[...]] Indeed, at my appearance, when I was actually reviewing the situation, I realized that some things were necessary and could be regulated within the framework of the European acquis. From 1 May onward, as you know, we do not examine animals on BSE at 24 months, but at 30 months. This somehow reduced the number of checks by one third, at the same time introducing a new cheaper test, which reduced the cost of the review by as much as 4,000 tolars. However, with regard to the conditions of slaughter, it is necessary to know that in fact we must enforce the European acquis in this area, and the rules on veterinary conditions for the production and placing on the market of fresh meat have entered into force with effect from 1 May. So we have two types of slaughter, one is slaughter in approved slaughterhouses. We have two categories, one is the category that has oval stamps, and it can also export and so on, the other are slaughterhouses that have permission to derogate from hygienic technical conditions, these are establishments with less capacity, these have oval stamps having up to 1000 GVZ annually slaughtered. I must say that this part is very well used by farmers, they unite within cooperatives, and we have already issued some such approvals for such slaughterhouses. The latter is, for example, in Logar Valley, where we have somehow solved the problem of 50 farmers, especially because they are also applying their brand, which is called Latvia's Solčavska. I think it is very important that we somehow enforce and help those areas that make it easier for them to operate and enter the market. Above all, to promote local supply, this is also one of the possible sub-programmes of our agriculture and to try to find out what the needs, local needs, and to give priority to these local needs, and also to ensure this local self-care. This reduces transport and other costs. By the end of September, this is crucial to what you asked me - by the end of September, a regulation will be adopted which can be adopted by the Minister, under Article 28 of the Veterinary Act, to check earlier all conditions so as not to cross the European acquis. Here we have examined the matter, and so far we also have the consent of European experts to allow us certain reliefs. One is slaughter for own domestic use of the animal holder. In fact, there will be no limit to the quantity, especially that this slaughter will be for its own consumption, for its own household, for example the hired labour force or for relatives. Here we just have to define the definition of what is our own consumption, what is the minimum condition. These will indeed be the minimum conditions, which types of animals are allowed to slaughter and, of course, also the responsibility of the owner to comply with certain rules. Then another such exception is established on tourist farms. Here I believe that substantial changes will be made to allow for the slaughter of up to 30 GUŽ, of course not of bovine animals, but not of cattle under European legislation, except in those slaughterhouses, common ones, but they will be allowed to slaughter up to 200 lambs, up to 200 goats, pigs up to 20 kilograms, that is to say Odajka, or 30 adult pigs. This will certainly be possible, the conditions will be minimal and the status of the farmer will not be needed. And there's something else that will make it possible to slaughter and sell at home, which is an exception, but it's 5,500 pieces of poultry or rabbits. These can be sold to the direct, final consumer by the manufacturer. These are reliefs that will make a significant contribution to reducing the problems that farmers are now facing. All of this will, I assure you, be adopted in the Rules by the end of September. I could've kept going, but time doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you, Minister for the answers. Comrade Sušnik, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u210	We are of the opinion that the consistent and good development of complementary activities on the farm would mean one counterweight or one relief for the Slovenian farmer. In this regard, I am further asking you on the fact that we have pointed out too strict sanitary veterinary rules for carrying out complementary activities on the farm. That's in terms of what you've already said. When can we also expect to amend and amend this Regulation, which defines complementary activities on farms in the sense of the multi-faceted processing of milk and meat products on these farms? These are farms which are seriously accounted for by complementary activities and which have now been practically placed in an impossible situation due to extremely non-living conditions, even because of the lack of adequate slaughter capacity in slaughterhouses, they have not been able to slaughter a heavier pig on a regular basis for processing into a mammalian stomach or something like that. All of these are things, Mr Minister, which are extremely burdensome, extremely difficult and which further exacerbate the already poor rural situation. I think it is imperative to prepare appropriate and consistent answers. In view of what we have also learned at appropriate meetings with European veterinarians, which, by the way, have told us that ritual slaughter is also tolerated, we expect that you will also properly regulate the possibility of slaughtering pigs and thus preserve ethnic specificities such as Slovenian collins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'm giving the word to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u212	Mr. Sušnik, I think I have already answered the question. Knees on Slovenian farms are a ritual and, of course, as far as this is concerned, there will be no special restrictions other than minimum conditions. The space in which processing is also made for own use for domestic use will also be able to be processed for consumption on tourist farms. That's what I said. Of course, by changing, 30 adult pigs can slaughter or 200 lambs. Before that, I also talked about poultry and rabbits, which will be sold freshly. The other is complementary activities. You're talking about processing for sale. Of course, certain conditions will have to be met here, which are in fact also regulated in this context. I think a few of these farms are already equipped for these kinds of needs. This will not apply to slaughtering cattle, slaughtering bovine animals at home is not allowed except within slaughterhouses, these smaller capacities and establishments of smaller capacity. Such slaughterhouses are also carried out by means of an interesting pooling of a large number of producers within the framework of the law. I think we have proposed substantial movements in this area. I fully agree with you, this is about the life issues of survival in this area. As I have assured you, we will adopt the Rules by the end of September.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Bogdan Barovic, Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In 1993, there were 246 women working in Pekko, specifically in Trbovje. These 246 women have claims to Pek, a share company, to their subsidiary Pekko ČSP and also to Pekko stores. The workers filed certificates at an average value of 350,000 tolars, later shares worth 88 thousand tolars. The workers contributed 5% of their net personal income for even 6 months to buy material and work. In the case of a worker who has 32 years of working age, I can say that this worker has 1.6 million debts, a claim to Pek, 170 000 tolls of claim to Pek Stores, which were paid by workers on bankruptcy and on behalf of the company of the ČSP Peko 100 thousand tolars. Or an example of a 32-year-old worker, has claims worth 2 million. As many as were left, they calculated the workers because they are still fighting, giving them three of the Peck's companies that I have named, together, due to their investment in the past worth 200 to 250 million tolars. Why am I asking you? Because of the fact that workers from one of these three companies wrote to Mrs Tei Petrin's Ministry of Health and received the answer, which is the answer that causes the most allergies: "We have no influence, the company is bankrupt, wait, the workers will be paid for the work done as a priority." We got a response from the Attorney General's Office, and there's nothing he can do, the matter was in criminal proceedings, and it's over, no one's to blame. 200 to 250 million claims have employees, these claims belong to them, whether the government, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of the Economy or even the Minister of Justice, I don't care. The workers want to know when they'll get the money they deserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you for the question, Mr Barovic. In fact, Peck’s previous management did not compensate for some of the cancellation liabilities in 2000. I've looked at the data on the problem that's hot, and I agree with what you're talking about. At present, the fact that Pekko, a shareholder company, has successfully settled obligations under the discharge of 153 workers totalling 196 million tolars since this period, in addition to the settlement of all the legal and judicial costs incurred, 77 of which were resolved by a judicial decision, 67 cases by a judicial settlement, and others by other means: impeachment or out-of-court settlement or enforcement payments. In fact, I can ensure that, according to current information, there are 21 pending and pending actions before the court, and all judicially recognised obligations will be settled immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you, Minister. Kolga Barovic is not satisfied with the answer and requires a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u218	No, I fully understood the last sentence, and probably all those who listen and are interested. Therefore, according to the information provided by the Minister, the final proceedings are ongoing and, if I understand correctly, the remaining debts will also be settled. One more thing, Mr. Secretary-General. It is true that the Ministry of Economy has been prepared and assisted by the free transfer of the business premises of ČSP Trbovlje. But if you'll excuse me, I'm only asking now that you're the new minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u219	That's another question, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u220	In connection with Peck, if you'll allow me to finish, Mr. Chairman. It's about Pekka, the Pekka building, the Pek workers, the Pekka. Have you, Mr. Minister, checked the value of the Pekko facility, which is also in response - I think from Mrs. Tee Petrin's period - also referred to as part of, in quotations, "debt repayments"? Are you, and if you did not, please check the valuation value, which was somewhat over 200 million, and the real value of this facility, so that it would not happen - in your best interests, Mr. Minister - when did it raise an unpleasant question on the basis of which such value was given and should not this value be attributed to the workers?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u221	Minister, would you like to answer that question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u222	As I am aware, it was Pekko, d.d., that part of the obligations he had to the SRD in liquidation, settled in such a way that he transferred property to the SRD and then transferred it to the State and the State to the municipality. Now, what was this valuation, of course, there are different valuation methods, I did not specifically check it because you did not directly ask. However, each evaluation shall be carried out in different ways. But I have to say, in this case, I don't know which method was used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you. The next question will be asked only by Bevk to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik: What are the prospects or what is the timetable for the continuation of the project for the construction of the Vogršček irrigation system in the Vipavska Valley? I am particularly interested in this project Šempas 3 in the range of 56 hectares on the outskirts of the village of Šempas. Water is sufficient in the accumulation of Vogršček to irrigate some 3,500 hectares of agricultural land in the wider Vipavska valley, from Montenegro to the Italian border. By 2000, investments had been made on some 1,300 hectares of agricultural land, over 200 kilometres of pipelines with more than 1,500 hydrants. Each year, approximately 100 hectares of surface area has been added to the system. The purpose of the investment was also checked by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The conclusion of the expert work of this international bank was the basis for the government's adopted strategy for the development of irrigation systems in Slovenia. In this strategy, the Vipava Valley is identified as a priority. Despite this conclusion, the project to continue the construction of the Vogršček irrigation system in the Vipavska Valley just after 2000 practically stopped. In addition to the irrigation system Vogršček, I am also interested in: How is the construction of the irrigation system in the central Vipavska valley, where the professional definition for the construction of the water accumulation Košivec, which would be sufficient for about 550 hectares of agricultural land of the already meliorated complex Bře-Zablje? Minister, I thank Dr. Pogačnik very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you for the question, and the Minister has the floor for the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you very much to Mr Bevk for the question. Ladies and gentlemen, the question about Shampas 3. Continued construction of the Vogršček irrigation system in the Vipavska Valley with the Šempas project is included in the national irrigation programme of the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been said. All necessary grounds for determining the location, the executions are ready. In the previous year, the ICGP was proposed to finally implement the programme. The problem is in particular because the proposal in the law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005 on the sale of works of state land managed by the Agricultural Land Fund has not yet been approved in the National Assembly and the Ministry of Agriculture still does not have those funds. We are building new large irrigation systems according to available, unfortunately, minimum budget resources. On the basis of the level of the budget adopted for 2004 and 2005, there are 234 million for these two years, of which 60 million in 2004 and 174 million in 2005. The estimated additional requirements for the implementation of the national irrigation programme are a minimum of around 500 million. So much for information. In the last year, a large irrigation system was completed by Ormož-Osiševci, which was built from 1999 to 2003. This year, the Kalce-Naklo irrigation system will start to be implemented in Krk. This is an investment in 180 million sitts. The construction of the latter will be carried out in accordance with the programmes and calls for proposals will continue to build new systems according to the means at their disposal. On the second question, about the already meliorated complex Bře-Zablje. This system is also included in the national irrigation programme. A number of activities have already been carried out on this project. An idea project for the accumulation of Košivec was made, which proved to be worth 1 billion 4o million sit. In addition, 100 million more land purchase sites will be needed, and the value of the divorce is going to be around 150 million. Resources will be needed for engineering, project documentation, control and acquisition of all administrative permits, representing approximately 7% of the investment value. Within the framework of activities in 2002, 2003 for the construction of the accumulation of Kosivec and the corresponding irrigation system, there were problems related to the purchase of land under future accumulation. 80% of the consent of the owners of agricultural land should be obtained in the area of the irrigation system. Construction is, of course, an extremely large financial asset that cannot be expected under the 2004 or 2005 ICGP budget. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be raised by colleague Majda Zupan to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. The opinion poll conducted by the Slovenian agency Accession and the Croatian Premises showed, among other things, that they are not the real basis for bullying Croatian citizens by the Slovenian Border and Transport Police. The fact is, in most cases, Croats meet with our police officers in this way. I therefore believe that we should in some way prove that Slovenian border and traffic police do not discriminate against them because of their nationality, but if irregularities are already taking place, they should be removed. The kindness and smile of police officers on borders and roads, which cost nothing, could greatly help us to have a better relationship with our neighbors. Dear Minister of the Interior: What can you do or will you do in this regard? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this matter. Let me put it that way. In the last decade, Slovenia has achieved significant success with regard to road safety. It halved the number of deaths in 2004 compared to 1995. The reason for this is also, although of course not only this, the rather active role of the police, its increased activities in many cases, which have not only given birth to joy and praise, but also repeatedly vice versa. As a result, many have resented and are likely to include examples of Croatian citizens or citizens. Nevertheless, let me tell you that the Slovenian police do not treat anyone discriminatoryly, otherwise, depending on his nationality or nationality. It has the same meter for any driver, whether they are foreigners or Slovenian citizens. It means a reason for dissatisfaction, for the abuse you are talking about, cannot be in some pre-emptive attitude of the police towards Croatian citizens. He treats them exactly the same as everyone else. Otherwise, the reputation of the police and, of course, the assessment of its work is the common goal of all Slovenian police officers and police officers. This common objective is to achieve the following with regard to the transport police: by increasing the degree of kindness and correct attitude towards road users during the course of the procedure, by legal and tactically properly managed procedure, by choosing the right forms and methods of police work and by effectively detecting, in particular, the worst offences in the road, and by consistent action against the perpetrators of these offences. I gave the text from the directions the Slovenian police have. So we have already done something for greater kindness, it is, as you can see, one of the basic guidelines that the Slovenian Transport Police has for their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Mag. Marko Diaci will raise the question of the Member State unfortunately to the absent Minister for Environment, Space and Energy and will probably be satisfied with the written answer afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will be satisfied with the written answer if I receive it by the end of my term of office, because there are actually 23 unanswered questions on this list of reviews of questions and initiatives and I would like to ask if there is an answer to that question, because there is one question that I have to ask for. The question is as follows. In the second half of 2003, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia detected a 19% drop in average prices of completed dwellings compared to the same period in 2002. At the same time, housing in the building cost almost 32% more than in the same period in 2002. According to real estate experts, the demand for completed dwellings in the second half of 2003 decreased due to the waiting for the release of the national housing savings scheme. This was known at lower prices. However, in the same period, according to official statistics published in June, the prices of unbuilt dwellings increased by almost a third. It can be concluded from the above that the increased demand was pre-accounted for in the prices of the apartments. At the regular meeting of the National Assembly on 28.10.2003, Mr Minister said that the offer of housing to be provided by the Housing Fund would even exceed the demand and would not lead to an increase in housing prices. The question I am asking the Minister is this: How does it justify such a speculative and morally questionable rise in housing prices in the light of the statement of 28.10.2003? And: What do the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy think are the reasons for such a change? At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister to comment on the following text sent by certain banks to their committees: "The national housing schemes that have concluded savings contracts in the bank for a period of 5 years after the first, second or third invitation to tender in 1999, 2000 or 2001 allow for early rental of housing loans. This way you can avoid any increase in real estate prices caused by the increased demand for first national housing scheme savers in the middle of this year." Thus, everyone actually sees that housing prices will rise, while the Minister, 'good for him', has ensured that these price increases will not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I pledge that we will try to provide answers to all the questions raised in this mandate. Mr Valentin Pohorec will ask the Minister of Health the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u233	Although the Minister is not here right now, he is aware of the question and I will ask for a written answer. Dear Minister, when will your ministry provide the necessary funds to purchase magnetic resonance for the Maribor General Hospital? It is known that Maribor General Hospital is not only the second largest such institution in our country, but as a regional hospital it also covers a wider area. Nevertheless, it does not have the necessary facilities to investigate before demanding operations, and unfortunately the hospital itself is not capable of financing the purchase of such equipment itself. I believe that the Ministry of Health does not take due account of the fact that the people of Maribor and the surrounding areas as a wider area of the hospital were building and equipping the hospital with self-sustainment, thus saving many budgetary resources which the State itself should provide for this purpose. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the State to assist the Maribor General Hospital in financing the acquisition of that facility. Since the Minister has arrived in the meantime, I will receive an answer immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I would like to address the Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Kebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Member, Members and Members, thank you for the question! Magnetic resonance investigations are one of the three, four narrowest throats in the healthcare system due to the high cost of basic investment. In doing so, I would like to state the following information. We're in this mandate. I think we've increased the number of magnetic resonance tests by 40%. In the country we make 12,000 per year and in the gravity area of the Maribor hospital [[Under this we count next to Maribor also Ptuj, Mursko Sobota and Ravne]] We do them in just over 2,000, which means about 25% of all investigations and the population in this area is 28%. This means that the number of investigations in this region is somehow similar to that of the Slovenian average. It is true that the owner of the device is not a Maribor hospital, but a private contractor who is paid by the public system. In principle, on this occasion, I should say that there are no reasons why private investors should not continue to be invited to purchase equipment; this is one typical example of private investment in public benefit and payment of services in the public network. Well, let me add that these six machines are promising this year, if there is no delay due to banal reasons, two more magnetic resonance devices, besides being renewed in Valdoltra, there is going to be a new transport in Nova Gorica and Celje. In addition, we also have before us a proposal for an extended college of relevant professions that proposes to acquire two more devices as soon as possible, one in Ljubljana and the other in Maribor. Of course, we have not yet shaken this proposal from the point of view of the ability to invest the Ministry itself, but we are no doubt aware and have already written in the documents that the number of these devices in Slovenia should be doubled over the next three, four years from the current six. This means that we have some other locations ahead of us, at least, for example, Dolenjska, Prekmurje, if I mention at least two typical sites, and of course an increase in the number of devices in Ljubljana and Maribor. I am so sure that this immediate Moroccan population enjoys the same but modest supply of these investigations, which we are aware of, but in the near future, in the coming year or two new equipment will also be available in Maribor. With an appropriate pricing policy, we think in particular that we need to achieve reduced prices, but we think that more investigations could be done on existing appliances as well. But this is where we're going with this year's regional hospital deal. In short, although the answer was rather complicated, I would like to report not only to Members but also to the public that in the very near future we will significantly increase the number of investigations and shorten waiting periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Mr Ivan Bozič will ask the Minister of Economy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary. All the time that I have been in Parliament - eight years - we are talking about the law banning the sale of asbestos products, all the moves we have made in Salonita Anhovo, and also the compensation of early retirements for workers who have worked in this factory. Unfortunately, the planned funds have not been spent in the last four years, while others are the pending victims who have been recognised by the medical commissions as being sick, professionally ill, due to asbestos inhalation. I think it's unacceptable that we don't spend 1 billion 200 million in four years, but at the same time let us wait for the people who have gotten such a nasty disease. Four Members of Parliament have drawn up a proposal for a law to extend for a further four years after seven million possible payments to people who will be proved or confirmed by doctors and commissions that they have suffered from asbestos inhalation. At that time, the government said that this proposal was inappropriate and that it would prepare its proposal. I seriously ask: When will this proposal come to an end, for the end of this year will the current law expire? Is there a written text or is it just a conversation? Just enough to add - you've had your own experience today. In our places, people went to work in Salonit Anhovo, and today they have experienced the third earthquake in addition to the disease. Can't we be human enough to admit a professional illness to whom the medical commission would not pay compensation within a reasonable time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u238	Thank you very much. To the words of the Minister of Economy, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, thank you for asking. The abolition of asbestos production, including the resolution of technological surpluses as a result of the restructuring of production, is completed. I can assure you that in 2004 we have provided additional resources to address the consequences of this problem, namely for compensation and early retirement of 767 million tolars. It's about what the victims were entitled to. In addition, we provided an additional 500 million dollars out of the general budget reserve because the funds turned out to be insufficient. Thus, a total of EUR 1 billion 267 million is devoted to this purpose. In June, I signed an issue for 160 decision-makers dealing with settlement of damages. I can also tell you that an agreement has been made with Salonito of Anhovo to participate in these 40% compensations - the company and 60% of the country. So I'm counting on payment to be made in the second half of July. In 2005, the budget plan for the needs and implementation of the law provides for an additional 700 million tolars, corresponding to the dynamics of the application. It is true that the waiting period has been unsustainable since 2000 onwards. I think it even extended by about 2 years, as some 1,000 applications were submitted in that year. I can assure you that the waiting period will end in 2004. In short, we are doing everything in this direction to actually make a settlement or, of course, to make adequate fair payments to the victims, for you certainly deserve this to be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. All I asked myself was when the law was going to be written, but I didn't ask for those things. I know you've done a lot this year, but you still haven't done as much as you've done under the Planned Resources Act for four years. For there is still a billion 200 million left in this year's proposal for 760 million damages. Even though you've added 500 million now, let's say there's another year, let's say there's still for 2005. But all the analysis of doctors says that asbestos treatment or asbestos disease in the Soča valley or everywhere in Slovenia where asbestos was used, should not be said only in Anhove, 20 years too late. For asbestos is an inorganic substance that will not fail, and all that is in the waste where it is used will be dangerous until it is completely removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u243	Thank you. Of course, I owe you more information. Indeed, I would like to inform you, of course, that the Interdepartmental Working Group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance, has prepared a comprehensive review of the asbestos problem in Slovenia, including guidelines for amending the law. The material was discussed on the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy and the Committee for State Arrangements on 22 June this year. Currently, the material is on the agenda for the hearing at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Thursday 15 July, so this week, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, have to take a position which the Ministry will bear the law. As I mentioned before, as far as the consequences of the restructuring are concerned, there has been a lot of work done here, as you yourself have mentioned. I agree with you that this is not just a Salonite problem, because the use of asbestos products was also present elsewhere in industry. I could count companies such as Donit, Tesniti, Phenoliti, Isolirka Ljubljana, Termika, Donit, Laminati and so on, so that I do not list everyone, because I would certainly miss anyone else, and that the problem needs to be fully solved. The purpose of this approach, which I have mentioned, is to resolve this issue in a timely manner and to ensure that adequate funding is also provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u245	Dear Minister of the Interior, I ask you a question, although I am aware that it goes beyond just your resources, as border control alongside the police also includes customs, various inspection services, transport and so on. By entering the European Union in the south, now the external borders of the European Union, we have built several new border crossings. The main so-called Schengen border checkpoint also includes the newly built Jelsana international border crossing, which we opened on 1 May this year. I wonder, how much money has been spent on this transition? In particular: how much of this money came from Brussels; so how much of it was co-financed by the European Union, because we know that it is the protection of the external borders of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u246	I would like to take the floor with the Minister of the Interior. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger, you have correctly established that the Ministry of the Interior is not competent and responsible for the construction of border crossings. But no matter what, I've obtained the following information for you. The service of the Government of Joint Services is responsible, and that's where I got this information. The border crossing you're talking about had a total investment value of exactly 3 billion 253 million 610.925. Of these, the Phare funds of the European Union are 926 million 125,000, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is 2 billion 327 million 485.225 or as a percentage of 28.5% of the Phare funds of the European Union and 71.5% of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u249	I ask: Was such a large investment worth over 3 billion, justified at all, or when will it be paid? For now the country is deliberately redirecting traffic from this transition to others. It is incomprehensible that the road regime does not allow trucks on the main road between Postojna and Jelshani at the section between Postojna and Illyrian Bistrica. The highway here won't be a good time, at least not on our side. Croatia is building it fast and will be on the border next year. It is unacceptable, therefore, that we have built such a facility at the border, that we have spent 2 billion from our budget and another billion from Europe, without having previously taken care of the normal transport connection of this facility. Freight traffic is now transported through Kozina, Podgrad and then along the regional road to Illyrian Bristrica further towards Jelshan. It is clear to anyone who has ever driven on these roads that this transport is absolutely no better than the Postojna - Illyrian Bistrica. On the contrary, in particular the section from Podgrad to Ilirska Bistrica is not at least suitable for freight transport. Both variants, either via Beer or through Kozina, passed through settlements. This second, now in force, is heading toward Kozina, running down a narrow regional road, and another 20 miles [30 km] longer. It is also necessary to know that every truck that comes to Podgrad once will not cross the border in Jelshan, but will serve the Starod border crossing because it is close to him, unless he is forced to go to Jelshana - this is for those trucks that have to carry out a phytosanitary check. Now the border crossing of Jelshana alone in all its beauty and greatness, in which we built it. We're acting really stupid. Therefore, it would be wiser to build the Jelshan crossing on Starod, because the Jelshans will only get this when Croatia is already in the European Union and we will no longer need the transition there. The requirements of the inhabitants of Prestrek and Pivka, who do not want trucks through their settlements, are perfectly legitimate, but are the same as those of the inhabitants of Kozina, Hrpelj, Podgrad, Matter, Markovščina, Obrova and Harij. Now we're doing triple damage. For the first time, we are causing damage to motorists who have to travel 30 kilometers longer, we are causing even greater damage to our roads, which are the ones that are most destroyed under the weight of these same trucks, and, finally, we are causing damage to the border crossing that we have built, and now we are alone. Even though there was a share of the money, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u250	Mr. Štemberger, please, if you finish. You've been out of line for a long time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u251	obtained by Brussels, this is no excuse for us to work with this money as a 'breather pig'. [[...]] I therefore wonder: Is Brussels informed if the European Union is informed as a co-investor of the matters that are now taking place there? Aren't I the first to let them know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Would you like the Minister to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u253	In fact, Mr Štemberger addressed the question to the wrong address. Not only that! In fact, in his question, he presented his position on the issue. This view can be correct, but it may not be. Whether Brussels is informed or not, I do not know, but I know that the police or the Ministry of the Interior, through the police, are implementing the country's adopted transport policy, but it is not designed; it is designed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Silva Črnugelj will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u255	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nicely greeted! Today I am addressing the question of the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Dr Milan Pogačnik. You are aware that the Slovenian Parliament ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in 1996. This obliges individual Member States, signatories to the Convention, to ensure that their genetic resources are maintained and used naturally. In the previous stages of the European Joint Programme for Plant and Genetic Resources, the collection, evaluation, documentation and development of databases and public awareness of the importance of conservation of plant resources were accelerated. In one of the stages, it was also important to assess these genetic resources, as farming is highly dependent on its own genetic resources, which are well adapted to certain natural characteristics. It is necessary to accelerate the production of Slovenian varieties in our agriculture, especially in the domain of organic production. Why grow? In particular, because Slovenian varieties are part of our natural and cultural heritage, which must be continuously used in agricultural production, because this way varieties are constantly adapted to all changes, especially those in volatile growth conditions. In Slovenia, we even improved certain properties of Slovenian varieties by maintaining and boasting and entering them into the sorting list. In 2002, it had 44 varieties of vegetables, ten varieties of potatoes, twelve varieties of grass, four varieties of butterflies, ten varieties of cereals, four varieties of other fodder plants, twelve varieties of hops, 35 varieties of vines, 17 varieties of fruit plants. For example, it is very important to say that we have 15 Slovenian native beans genes, say, compared to 240 gene varieties of beans from America. From this we can only conclude that Slovenian genetic resources represent an important share in the world treasure of the biodiversity of beans, which we can only be proud of. One of the possibilities for promoting Slovenia is products and crops of higher quality that can be made from Slovenian varieties produced in an ecological way. These products should, of course, be equipped with trademarks such as sour cabbage, sour tail, Slovenian beans and so on. I am interested, Mr. Minister, in view of the fact that you are very well-known that degraded areas have been very successful in accelerating and regulating: What do you intend to do in this very important area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u257	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Blacks. I'd say she's already answered some questions herself. Especially when you said why to grow. I absolutely agree with what you've already said. However, with regard to other measures to be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, I would say that we have worked successfully with the Ministry of Environment and Space in fact on measures relating to the Convention of Biodiversity. Together, we have prepared a declaration on agriculture and biodiversity, which we have then also given to the European Union and was presented and adopted on the working bodies of the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Ministry of Agriculture also includes its sectoral programmes in the topic, in particular, for example, this is very well integrated into rural development programmes 2004-2006. I am also very pleased that these measures are extremely supportive and preferable to European agricultural policy measures and are also a good perspective for the continuation of this work in development programmes or changes to European agricultural policy in 2007-2013. These programmes give, as I said before, particular importance to support the preservation of indigenous and traditional varieties of Slovenian plants. Under the rural development programme measures, this measure exists, this is measure 2/6, the production of indigenous and traditional varieties of agricultural plants, the amount of support per hectare is SIT 30,000. Of course, beneficiaries must meet the general conditions for agricultural environmental programmes and other specific conditions. I agree with you that many types of agricultural plants, especially those with genetic potential, need to be preserved, as should many local plants, specific flora and fauna; Natura 2000 somehow also introduces this and I hope that we will respect it. Of course, some plants are lost forever because of the absence of such measures. And we want to preserve this genetic heritage, the measure is intended, as I said, for the indigenous and traditional varieties of agricultural plants, by encouraging farmers to continue to grow in traditional ways, even though we know that compared to other more industrial plants they may be less competitive or less profitable. Well, this list of indigenous traditional varieties of agricultural plants contains nine groups, about nine varieties, from cereals to maize, to fodder plants, vegetable plants, potatoes, oils, hops, fruit plants, Slovenian apples, for example, as well as vines, such as if I were to mention rebulbs, refs, greens, velvets, kingdoms and malvasion. In short, these programmes exist, we take care of them within the scope of opportunities and within the framework of the rules that are allowed. The question was also raised, if I may say so, to promote products produced from Slovenian varieties and produced in an ecological manner. In fact, we are also supported in this part by European Union legislation, regulations on the protection of geographical indications, such as the specific nature of agricultural products and on organic production. In fact, it is a variety of forms that allow this protection, these are geographical designations, that is, for example, a category of traditional reputation and higher quality, as you have found, this is a category of organic production, this is integrated production and so on. Of course, all of this can only happen at the suggestion of one or such an environment that such a product produces. Thus we have, for example, designations of geographical origin and extra virgin oil of Slovenian Istria and tolminec cheese and Bohinian cheese and so on. By geographical indication we have marked, say, upper-dessavian stomach, karst prosciutto, Styrian and premurski noisy oil. Then, with traditional designations of reputation, we marked, say, the Idrija slycrophes and the Belokranja cake and so on. With the designation of higher quality, we have marked, say, veal meat, the Gold Grain brand and so on. However, there are some roles that need to be complemented, such as karst goat cheese, karst sheep cheese, cranberry bee pollen, and so forth. In short, I think in this area we have absolutely met the conditions laid down by the European Union, and we are moving forward in this direction, of course, good awareness, good information to producers and I think this is a very useful question of yours. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Right on that one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u259	Thank you very much. In fact, there is a great deal to be done to raise awareness, to educate and to learn about all these issues, because we have countless programmes, we have a very well-covered area in law, and then the question is at the implementation level how, in a way, to supervise all of this. To this issue today, I have been encouraged by the Society of Patients for Celliacs, which have problems precisely because of two, as well as several issues and problems encountered precisely in their diet, which is a narrow segment and poor choice, precisely because of the disease, as well as the Society of Allergy and Asthmatics, which have warned precisely about certain protections and how much the country actually controls at the implementation level in some way all these protected products and how many of the bee products we have countless and so on. Of course, I hope that you, together with the whole government, in particular the Ministry of Health, will continue to work on this when the food strategy is adopted, especially to give greater attention to the way in which the food chain is monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u260	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u261	I would add that, in fact, it might be a shame that we have been doing a lot of work in the past, of course it was necessary, with the problems created at the time of entry, but we did not think enough about how things would go after entry, and we did absolutely little at the national level to promote Slovenian products. In this area, some other countries have in fact acted more probingly, for example, Austria. We are somehow aware that production, processing and marketing will need to be linked into a common chain, a chain of mutual articles. And we have also opened a dialogue with the Ministry of Health. We have already had some good conversations in which, of course, I find that the common concern is actually production, then safe food, healthy food, and that ultimately consumers have the right to decide what is good. But it is very important, as I said, to promote, inform consumers about what is safe, what is healthy and what is good. It is a matter of joint activity, I agree, which I think will also find a place in the next strategy for the development of Slovenia. I think this is quite well defined in this strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, please ask the Minister of Health the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, ministers. Slovenian pensioners can be genuinely concerned. Also on the basis of today's answers and questions between two coalition champions, Mr Rob and Mr Ptrč, where Mr Ptrč made it clear that there is absolutely no consensus in the government on what to do with pensioners, how to protect their rights. That is why, of course, I am also asking this question. In fact, less than a month ago, when the mutual health insurance company published a 13th and half-cent increase in premiums for insured persons over 60 years of age, it was shown that Slovenian pensioners were left to the mercy of insurance companies because the Slovenian government had not drawn up an appropriate legal regulation. Although the government was obliged under the Insurance Act to draft the Insurance Schemes Act and we have also warned the opposition about this duty, the government has left it open to the pensioners and their health rights. For equal access to health services, which is in the vital interest of 500,000 Slovenian pensioners, the government has not drawn up a law that respects the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. On the contrary! The government's silent agreement apparently left them with discriminatory increases in insurance premiums. Therefore, I ask the Government: Why has the government not in due time drawn up a law on compensatory schemes and other solutions to ensure reciprocity and solidarity for pensioners? Why is the increase of the premium postponed until the election? In the absence of relevant legislation by the government, however, the election expects a drastic increase in voluntary health insurance premiums, which according to some information in the Mutual, is expected to ensure that it can increase dramatically after the election of the premium. What motives led the government to knowingly leave legislation to ensure reciprocity for Slovenian pensioners? I also ask: Is the government's best solution to the pension issue as low as possible the level of health services for pensioners? Does the government really want pensioners to be left to cruel biological laws as soon as possible in order to reduce the number of pensioners? With such behaviour by the Slovenian Government and the fact that the pensioners are in fact left to mercy and mercy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u265	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member. Since I will have three questions of a similar kind today, perhaps because I am confident that I will not answer any of the opposition Members in this way in order to leave the question behind, I will use the time available to explain again why the government is actually going through this. Allow me to say: first, we knew the need to have a law on compensatory schemes, but at the same time, at the beginning of the mandate, we found that it was too little to achieve what was necessary and that the honourable Member also spoke of: solidarity with those, solidarity of the healthy with the sick and solidarity of young people with the elderly, if you want, solidarity with the poor. Let me point out that in the time of health reform, which has given a comprehensive answer to this question. First, that supplementary insurance is on some kind of anomalies in the system; not because they would otherwise not support private insurance, but because supplementary insurance is not a real private insurance. After all, what's better than not being a real insurance is today when you ask why in Parliament we don't reach laws with a high level of regulation by the state. This just proves that this insurance - not only that, a lot of other evidence is, the underlying proof is: the supplementary insurance does not have its own programme, it does not have its own content of rights, but it only provides for payments in the public system. And the rights in the public system are ultimately guaranteed to citizens depending on their income. So those with lower incomes pay less than those with higher incomes. The creation of supplementary insurance has disrupted this, and the increase in premiums over the course of 10 years has put increasing pressure on poorer and sicker individuals. However, changes have started in the past, in the past, 10 years ago, the supplementary insurance began to increase premiums for older citizens, so that this last proposal is not actually a completely new proposal. That is why we are very quick, and we have also written this in the reform proposal - even the same supplementary insurance premiums are too small. Even if the premiums are the same, they still mean much more pressure on someone who has 10 times less income. That's why we wrote in the first proposal: bringing both insurances back to one insurance, to a compulsory insurance for which we all raise money depending on our income. As you well know, honourable Members, in the public debate, among other things, the opposition has opposed it, advocated concepts such as freedom, competitiveness, privacy is better than public debates, etc., all that, in fact, is not sustainable in international terms. Today, there is not a single case in the world to prove that private insurance works more efficiently and better; on the contrary, a bunch of people have proved that private insurance is more expensive and that it is also less effective or that quality is more questionable on the implementation side than in the public system. However, the public debate also showed arguments that, in particular from the ERM2 point of view, with a view to the possible impact on inflation, led to one more option. I can argue that today the Slovenian public has basically two options for health reform. The first option after which the supplementary insurance is abolished, the second option, the supplementary insurance is not terminated, but the premiums become income dependent and the poor pay less than five times the richer. Despite all these reforms and the proposals that some say, because since you have been preparing the reform, you have not prepared a law on compensatory schemes - we can also reject it! At the same time we were preparing this law, the working group was appointed in 2001, but until 2003, two years ago, the law was drafted by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which was declared ineffective last year in the middle of the year. I may be able to say what its inconsistentness and inefficiency was, but in any case, I can respond in order to have a comprehensive response for Members: it is not true that freezing the increase of premiums is only up to permission, but that freezing will last for at least the end of the year and with the start of the next year we will have a law on compensatory schemes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u267	Mr Minister, the Insurance Act was passed in 2000 and demanded solutions. Your ministry and the entire government have not prepared this. Today's debate is an opportunity for 500 000 Slovenian pensioners to give clear answers, not wander in the dark. Nor did you answer me if this is true, and I am sure that it is true that the premiums will increase dramatically after the elections, that you are now buying the electoral favor of the pensioners, that you are deceiving them. You have given the solution quite a lot, but we still do not know what solution the government has decided on today, but at the same time you have prepared various prohibition laws, alcohol and so on at the Ministry. I'm not saying that this is bad, but 500,000 Slovenian pensioners should have the advantage. None of this has been done! And now I must say I'm disappointed in such a theoretical explanation of what's possible. I would like to know and communicate to the pensioners how we will protect their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u269	Slovenian pensioners know that this government and this coalition are also promising greater solidarity for the future than today's. They are promised that income will depend on the premiums. Nevertheless, the compensatory schemes will be established and the law will be drawn up by the end of this year. These compensatory schemes will also have to take into account certain other conditions. However, let me say that in the interim period, including because of the nature of the insurance law, a situation has arisen that has indeed been insurmountable. The Insurance Act required not only age adjustment but also illness. If I say in a simple way to compensate for damage between two insurance companies, you even need to know if an insurance company had an individual with a very expensive disease, and that can be young, not just older. In short, it has made the creation of insurance schemes extremely complicated and has also come up with a proposal that was not realistic. The Agency itself said that even if we had such a law, it would not be feasible today until 2007. The second case, one of the insurance companies, in particular the one that triggered the problem, had all the technological and information support from the previous health insurance institution, while the two new insurance companies did not have this support and therefore had the costs. Therefore, in the discussions on balancing schemes, clear data were given on the table, we do not agree to a level playing field without considering that it is one insurance company [[read: Mutual]] almost a daughter, siamically linked to compulsory insurance. Let me say, therefore, that the technical reasons, the bad solutions in the past, have led to the fact that we have even rushed through health reform, and that is also the reason, not the basic reason that we know that health reform is necessary. This system needs to be modified and placed on new bases the entire supplementary insurance. Therefore, Commissioner, be assured that pensioners know and believe that these concepts also support both options for reform and expect anyone to win the elections to do so and not to support private insurance and the growth of privacy in health because of unacceptable proposals. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please calm down. Mr Alojz Sok will ask the Minister of Health the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! As Dr Keber has found, this is a very topical issue and we will therefore ask the opposition's Members in different ways to ask the Minister a question about it. In fact, I was tempted by the fact that the Minister was somewhat present with the opposition, which opposed these good solutions, but, Mr Minister, it is obvious that you did not carry out the reform that you had foreseen and which you intended to carry out, and you also did not adopt the law on compensatory schemes, even though you were aware of the problem at all times - obviously you were aware of it and despite the fact that you had a majority in the National Assembly that could accept it - one and the other. I would like to see you when I look at what is in the coalition contract: on the ninth side of the coalition contract it is stated that an interested coalition partner will prepare a law on compensatory insurance schemes under Article 14, paragraph 9, of the Insurance Act in the first half of 2001. Mr Potrč is clearly not seen in the role of this interested coalition partner, because today he has expressed his satisfaction that at least until the elections this premium will not increase. Clearly, DeSUS Members also do not see an interested coalition partner to prepare this. Now they're kind of jumping on their heads and saying they're gonna step out of the government if it's not all going to be the way it's supposed to be. Clearly, then, this interested coalition partner remains only LDS or you, Minister Keber, who should prepare this as a portfolio minister. The mutual, which was established by law and today has a burden of 95% of the older population, now that we have entered the European Union, we face a great dilemma. Here are the new insurance companies, which will, of course, be very happy to start working in the Slovenian field. If it is to believe the debate we were able to monitor on TV Slovenia, about 30 insurance companies are ready to enter Slovenia, of which ten or more would be willing to carry out insurance in the field of health insurance. It is said that this case is extremely current and the insurance company Mutual claims that it works with 7% manipulative costs, that these costs cannot be reduced, that these reserves, which you as the minister are talking about, are not available, and that out of all these insurers, only 140 thousand have such a life-sustainment. What about the $1 million you're counting on and the insurance company is not supposed to raise these premiums? Because I have to finish, then I'll keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u273	I know I have to answer first and foremost, even though I'd like to ask myself, I'm going to ask rhetorically. Isn't it interesting that we are wondering when a private insurance company loses when the public system is at a loss, and we say where is the efficiency, where is there something to save, or whether the contractors are doing well enough, etc. The public system is in a loss that we are also eliminating. I would like to use this to point out that today we are actually discussing the rescue of a private insurance company, not those who are suffering, pensioners, those who are promised selective premiums. If the opposition really believed that if it were to really stand up for the pensioners, it would have long ago supported, forgive, income-dependent premiums, premiums which are as solidarity in supplementary insurance as in compulsory insurance. But she didn't do it. But suddenly it's a terrible campaign, and the mutual has announced a loss. Let me say it. The mutual announced it in 2002 and then increased the premiums by 10%, exactly 9.8. The year ended with a profit of 2.85 billion, the largest profit in insurance in Slovenia. Next year, this is last year, it ended up with a profit of almost 2 billion. Let me ask you where the emergency is, where is it that we all have to get to the pile and suddenly solve the insurance problem? The problem is that the insured, respected Members, and the problem is that these insurers have not paid properly for 10 years and that it is that we have reduced solidarity, that the total payment has gone in a regressive direction and that through reform, we want to eliminate this. It is logical that because we are going into this reform a number of partial interests are taking place. Insurance companies that want to prevent this, factories of medicines that are not satisfied with the regulation of medicines, although we will save 4 billion this year, operators who see their interest particularly in private health care. Today we don't talk, it's about manipulation that you're worried about pensioners. You are concerned whether those who have taken advantage of these insurance companies will still have the corresponding profits by the end of the year. We're less worried about that. As I said, by the end of the year, they will be levelling schemes. No one in this country shall be able to raise premiums selectively unpunished in supplementary insurance because it is also a violation of the law, not only a violation of the Mutual Statute itself, which has promised its insurers that they will have premiums that are similar. Therefore, insurance companies under such a health policy as we run it can be completely safe. After all, the Mutual has frozen its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, would you like the Minister to complete his answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u275	Mr. Secretary, we're not interested in the fate of each other. We ask you what happens to the insurance companies all the time. We have always argued that you have missed the fact that you have not passed a law on compensatory schemes through this Parliament. That's the problem. That's what we're talking about. If this law does not exist, there will be major problems in this insurance system. You say here today, we'll do it by the end of the year. Now I'm asking you: How are you gonna do that? How can you here today at the last session of Parliament, when there is no proposal to deal with this law, ensure that this is actually done by the end of the year. You cannot even ensure that by the end of this year a new government will be established. Let's just be real. It's said to be some kind of promise, some kind of deception, without some real basis. Who today can ensure that by the end of the year the government will be established, but if we all know that there are elections on 3 October and no one can predict what elections will be like? I believe that if another political option wins, it will immediately address this problem and solve it as it is right. However, a law on compensatory schemes will have to be adopted. If you have resigned from what you wanted to achieve in order to terminate the supplementary insurance in any way. Thus, if we remain in supplementary insurance, if we remain in this system, this law will have to be adopted. And the ruling coalition would have acted wisely if it had brought this law and had actually adopted it before the end of this House's work in Parliament. Many of the laws you have made through the most urgent procedures in the interests of the state, I don't know what you've put through this Parliament. You still have enough. But you don't want this marriage, while you say 500 thousand Slovenian pensioners, no, nothing's going to change, everything's going to stay the way it was. People are justly concerned when they look at this double act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u277	I think we've made sure that people have learned in these years what their prospects are for increasing the privatisation of health insurance. They have learned that even in the area covered by supplementary insurance, selective premiums for the elderly, higher and less, and in this area, sickness premiums, although young, could also be higher. They have learned that private insurance is necessarily a judge, it goes this way, unless it is regulated by state laws to become practically public. So let me say, what else will the public debate show? We have two proposals in public. Between these two proposals, the government and, of course, the parliament, which will have to listen to the public, will, inter alia, listen to 400,000 pensioners who say that the first option is better, which supports the abolition of supplementary insurance and that it is combined with compulsory insurance. Economists, public economists may also present evidence of what is better. But these two options are both solidarity, and between these two options, of course, citizens will choose directly through their Members. Let us, whether through the opposition or through some government, of course we do not know what the future is, but it is clear that this will be accepted. Let me tell you something else. The compensatory schemes do not react to new money, the compensatory schemes settle profits and losses between insurance undertakings. That's all this is about. But if the money is too small, and the other insurance company is already telling her that she doesn't have this money, you might believe her as well as the Mutual, or you'll only trust the Mutual that the other insurance company can give her 8 billion or 10 billion, even though she's got 15 billion in total. How can it be predicted that an insurance company that has 80% of all insurers solves its financial problem from two others who have 20% of the insured? The compensatory schemes are the answer to the question, the question is also the envy of someone who would like to tear away everything that belongs to him. I have to be corrected to say that it is true that it belongs to him; it is true that in the existing system we need compensatory schemes, I cannot say that we do not need them, but they were by no means necessary, necessary to take this view that we had two billion profits last year. I'm sorry, the alcohol law was more important than that, but it wasn't the only marriage we adopted. It is important for me to reform, and I hope that reform will address these issues more systematically and globally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Čebulj will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. The question of correspondence is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to the Minister of Transport, Dr. Mark Pavlihi, and concerns the road of the regional road ER1 210 Jezersko-Preddvor. This has been gradually renewed lately. In the past winter, there were serious injuries on the road, as well as on bridges. Therefore, on behalf of the citizens of the municipality of Jezersko, on behalf of the mayors, and on my behalf, I ask or demand that your professional services immediately assess and approach immediate recovery. Driving along the above-mentioned regional roads from the country border above is dangerous due to the above-mentioned injuries, particularly cracks, bridge collisions, where warning signs have already been placed. Above all, it is dangerous for mass cyclists, who are huge in this section. As I mentioned earlier, half the road is closed, since bus and freight traffic are barely available. It should be noted, however, that transport by entry into the EU has increased and, above all, the citizens of the Municipality of Jezersko are concerned about the safety of the transport of compulsory children to the primary school of Predvor. According to my personal assessment, the situation is very critical, which is why I fear that traffic on this road will be completely disrupted. This will cut off the citizens of Jezerski from their homeland, as they will have only a link with Austria. I also have listed here all the sections that are most critical. But Mr. Minister, as I already know, the congregation of Jezersko, of course, has already sent almost the same letter with its services, but I would like you to give me an oral and written answer so that the citizens or leaders of the congregation will also know how this section of the Predvor - Jezersko regional road will be further repaired. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Marco Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, Mr Member, for the question. As I am aware, the Secretary of State has already told you that the Directorate has started with parts, looked at this disputed road and, of course, made a list of the most critical cities and also prepared an answer to questions. In order not to waste too much time, I suggest that we make it in writing in concrete and detailed terms, because this is quite a lot. However, I would now like to draw attention to those most important aspects, which are, of course, related to the rehabilitation of omissions, then to more detailed inspections of facilities, signed contracts, recovery calls, investment maintenance and so on. In particular, we must point out that, on the basis of an idyllic study of road regulation for the rehabilitation of support and resistance walls in this section, there are between 50 million sitt and 100 million sitts each year, which means that this issue is taken into account. Finally, let me explain that this issue has been very familiar for a long time and is being addressed within the available means, which are not negligible in this section. That's why I'd like to give you some numbers again. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia has invested in the construction of bridge walls and repairs of support walls in the last three years of 720 million tolars. The cost of regular maintenance without major maintenance during this period amounted to 31 million 650 thousand tolars. Well, like I said, comprehensive answers come in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u283	I thank the Minister for his oral reply. The whole thing doesn't sound like it's just a routine question. The real section I mentioned, from the Predvor to the border with Austria, is in such a bad state, and in particular sections, that immediate action and rehabilitation are really needed. This has also been shown on the spot itself, but I must also point out that only too little serious has been taken by this commission, or the road directorate and the others in charge, who have been sent by the Ministry of Transport, is that they have carried out certain matters, which is indeed absolutely necessary. This most urgent work is at this current stage. However, as a matter of question and initiative, it is also intended to allocate more resources to the state budget in the coming year, mainly for this section, for the whole rehabilitation of this Predvor-Lake Road or the border to Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like some more? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about insured people over 60 today. But I would like to present the matter a little differently and also ask the question differently. I'd like to go to the source. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Minister of Health: What will you do to prevent the leak of insurance information to the insurance company Mutual? Due to the leaking of information, it is mainly for the younger and the more wealthy, the insured are in an unequal position, according to age, of course, especially those over 60 years of age. In doing so, you are other insurance companies, especially the Mutual and Triglav, making profits in this way. I'll explain. According to the information we have, it is said that at the Ministry of Health, the person in charge of health insurance should be the person who was removed from the insurance company Mutually for issuing information and now obstructs the law on insurance schemes or solutions in this regard. That is why the government has so much supported the solution to increase insurance premiums for over 60 years. The said unacceptable solution, which was thus supported by the ruling majority, including DeSUS, and also by those representatives, was not at a meeting of the parent health committee when the SDS requested an extraordinary meeting of the committee on this subject and, of course, a specific point on this. Now they're pretending in DeSUS that they're against it because they've had a rebellion over 60 years of age. Until recently, the government had a two-thirds majority and could propose solutions and elegantly bring them through Parliament. The opposition has always supported good solutions. The suspension is a temporary solution and the leaking of information can continue and is likely to continue. The liability of the owners of the insurance company is mutual. We know who owns it. This is the state, still, which has the main word indirectly aliphaps directly. So the state, and in her name, the government. Therefore, the question of origin as to how the government will prevent the diversion of information on insurers in the insurance company Mutual. We know there's been a scandal, and the government has somehow done it elegantly, if I may say so, under the rug and continue to move on so that things can continue. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I'll try to fix you first, unless you have other information from the media than I do. We were not aware of any data leaks from the insurance company Mutual, but we were informed of an anonymous letter which was reported to the Health Insurance Office. If we're thinking the same thing, then let me do it, because otherwise about the Mutual I would just like him to be an independent economic operator. Let me link this to your previous discussions - he is an independent economic operator, he is responsible for storing data, for leaking or not leaking data and, of course, the laws apply to him. If you had in mind an anonymity which was intended for alleged irregularities at the health insurance institution, let me just point out that the institution has repeatedly strongly denied the information in this anonymity, that this anonymity did not provide any evidence; that at the Ministry we believe that an anonymous person, regardless of the specific position that we may have with regard to anonymity, but that if an anonymous person brings specific evidence, they should be taken into account; and that the institution has submitted this anonymity to the relevant authorities which can examine both, possible data leaks and possible guilt for such instigation. Allow me to comment very briefly on your observation about the employment of a particular person who is supposed to have been expelled from the Mutual Insurance. This country is small. When people lose or go to another job in one way or another, it does not mean that they are therefore banned from this country for eternity, especially since this person has not been even recognized, let alone proved. This means that we do not know the information or any indication that this person would be in any dispute with his former employer. But let me say some small anecdotes, honourable Member. We have another very similar story - and I apologize to the one I'm going to mention without a name. We also have the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, who used to work at Triglav. There must have been no debate when all of them started, probably very appropriate and effective sanctions by the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the case of Triglav. So I think that this is an extremely baseless and very trendy and malicious relationship with employees who are doing their job correctly for the benefit of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. I can also accept that, as you said at the end, they're tending, but the system doesn't play. And that's the problem, and that's what I want to point out. The insurance companies will be, or they could be, injured if what happened didn't happen. But the fact is something else. It was likely that information could not be leaked because information about the younger and the more wealthy was leaking from the Mutual. And they all went to the other two insurance companies and then the age structure in the insurance companies is exactly the same, in the Mutual Elderly, in the other two younger ones, those who actually spend less on health. And there's more profits. Some insurance companies share profits on this account, and on the Mutual, older insurers who remain there, who are probably even more stable and believed in this insurance company, are therefore to be injured. And that's what's unacceptable. It is now the government's transfer, and I would mention DeSUS in particular when he supported such solutions so that no such scheme or any other solution could be drawn up. We do not claim to be insurance schemes, but when we talk about insurance schemes, we know what we are thinking; otherwise we should explain the whole system as we thought. That's what this is about. When you talk about profit, you deny intergenerational solidarity. This is likely to have to be taken into account. And, Mr. Secretary, you're that lightning rod now, I'm sorry, but I can't address anyone else. The ruling majority had a two-thirds majority all the time. We could have taken any solutions. The solutions, which were good, we also supported in the opposition, are not small, but you have not prepared any solutions and we have not been able to support them, we would have supported them. It wasn't a complete solution or whatever you say, long-term, we don't care. Look, just a quick case. When you said that the system couldn't go through, that we had such and different [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll be right with you, Madam Vice President. We also have on car insurance some insurance companies that continue to do damage, but the system is still ready and functioning. And it could be the same here. But the system wasn't ready, and that's why we're warning you, and I'm asking: How will you prevent information leaks? I'm sorry I wasted a little more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u291	Mr Member, I thank you for your criticism, despite all that you have done correctly. Allow me to give you the correct answer. I think the Mutual, you said again, the Mutual doesn't even have information about the property status of its insurers because it actually has their premiums that are the same. Let me just guess out loud, or do you really think that you might want to figure out who's a better Slovenian and young and healthy and wealthy to just go to a health insurance company? Let me repeat, so far there is no evidence that such data would even exist and that they would leave the health insurance company. So let me warn you, you're saying something that's not proven and I can't really answer that anymore. The second thing is that on the right solutions, it is clear that Members believe that a certain law, if you have a two-thirds majority in Parliament, may be adopted within one month, but you know exactly that some laws cannot be adopted. Health reform cannot be adopted even if you have an entire Parliament because you have to put it into public debate. Health reforms around the world take years. I am convinced that this debate, which is going on and on until now and will obviously not be completed in this mandate, is, nevertheless, the greatest merit of this ministry, because it has brought citizens to their senses. And these citizens will not allow any new parliament and any other government to increase private funding in the area of insurance. To make private money out of my pocket. Any government will have to count on it. That's why I think we've done so much. We wanted more. I can safely say that I personally wanted and expected more. That some on your side claimed that it was going too fast, that it was not possible to make big moves with a big spoon. But in the area of insurance, this big shift is needed. I am confident that this move will take place in the coming term. That is why we will all work together, and I also urge you on the opposition side to change this context, that you believe that citizens must contribute from a private pocket because they cannot. The poor can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u292	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Health will be posed by a mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. The question will relate to the payment of salaries of leading workers at the Clinical Centre headed by the Director-General. It was found that overpaid salaries were paid. They were not in accordance with the law or beyond the rules, nor were they the salaries of the leading members of the Clinical Centre who charged themselves with fictitious supplements, difficult working conditions, a competitive clause and many more. Similarly, lawyers in the legal service of the clinical centre had additional contracts to work with the clinical centre. Mr. Secretary! You are also responsible for the legal functioning of institutions such as clinical centres and similar. I wonder: What did you find out and what did you do in this case? I hope I get the right answers. In the event of a previous question to Minister Dimovsk, I have received the wrong answers, which are not real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u295	Madam Vice President, honourable Member! I wish I could answer you correctly. That's right. We've detected an irregularity. It was discovered only by the Ministry and has already acted. It acted in such a way as to order that the contract with the Director-General of the Clinical Centre should be amended to reduce his salary and the new Director-General would have a salary of 162 places between salaries at the Clinical Centre. So let me tell you a little bit of history in this area, because it's not, I'll just say, easy. First, let me say that the rise in wages to doctors in 1996 brought their wages in the form of a so-called medical supplement that doubled their salary. This was also true for directors if they were doctors. However, there was a problem if the directors were not doctors because in this case they had an automatic round of between 150 and 250 thousand gross wages, as if the director were a doctor. Clearly, this has not been a problem for many years. Only when we started to ask questions about real management, about effective manoeuvring, when we started to set the conditions that in the position of director, of course he could also be a doctor, but with adequate education and with adequate knowledge in the field of management, things started to change. Very slowly. Still most of the cities in these parts are covered by doctors. However, we do have several more jobs where there are no doctors in these places. This is, of course, the problem we're talking about. The Director-General of the clinical centre with a new appointment is not a doctor. He used to be a doctor. And there was a mistake here that they attributed him no more wages, but the same salary as before and that it was also written in the contract. Of course, a mistake was made here. We didn't find it until three months later, but despite everything we've figured out, we're demanding it, even though, as I said, we've done an absurd thing. To such a job if we don't fix it, but I'm going to say right before this problem is resolved, of course we can't get people who come to 200 jobs in the staff structure. Therefore, once again, the Director-General of the Clinical Centre has, since his appearance in the last three months, indeed received a salary of around 200 000 gross and 100 000 net higher than he should, so now it will be reduced, but I hope that the Public Sector Payments Act will enter into force as soon as possible, which finally, as appropriate, puts directors out of collective agreements where they have been. Therefore, the new salary of the Director-General of the Clinical Centre - of course we have to wait for all the agreements and the collective agreement - will amount to about one payment grade less than that of the Minister. And that's how it's been in the clinical center all along. Of course, there have also been relatively minor errors in all other managers - I think it goes from five to ten people, I apologize for not being our area. The Director-General has already reduced their salaries from 1.7 to legal adequacy. I would ask you, Mr Member, to understand that this very point is not the point where we point to those who serve, but it is the point once again when some laws are somewhat late, they overlap with other laws. And this law, which we are waiting for to enter into force here, we hope will enter into force once a collective agreement for the public sector is adopted and will also apply, I hope, from 1.7. I think I told you very precisely what I knew about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, you want a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u297	Thank you very much for your answer. In fact, I have received answers to almost everything except the question about lawyers as to how these additional contracts are. I don't know if you found anything. At the same time, of course, I would like to know whether you have done anything similar, a similar audit in other institutions. You can't get past the fact that in these four years you've been designing a system for managers who would agree. This was promised all the time. The Prime Minister promised that this was not a problem, that they could arrange it in a month and that it would then be functional, rational and legal. What you've done is legal, but I don't know if it's stimulating, as you say. But that's the government's job. It's the government's job to make this work. I'd like to know if you've done anything else, but as far as these lawyers are concerned, if you have additional contracts, of course, if you have an answer to this question, I would advise you to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u298	Let me answer that from 1.7th on, the Ministry of Health controls all salaries and we have all the salaries reviewed. Until now, we had control over the salaries of directors in hospitals, not in a health care facility. This is how this examination is carried out. Of course, I cannot answer the individual cases of pay you mentioned. But I can tell you that in some other hospitals that we immediately controlled because of a similar anomaly, we found that they were legally paying wages. For example, the case of the Jesenice hospital, where the manager is employed not by a doctor, but to mention, his salary is unstimulating and is significantly lower than his subordinates. However, if you ask me, honourable Member, to respond as before with a health reform: such matters that are involved in the entire public sector wage system, in the negotiations with the unions, in many partners, simply cannot be resolved, and practice shows that they cannot be resolved within one week, in two weeks, but very much tolerance is needed. I very much hope and wish I could say on behalf of the government that there would be a solution in this mandate that would enable the implementation of the new law. This new law answers the question of the real salaries of directors in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u299	Thank you, Minister. France Tsukati has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Above all, in this pre-election period, we hear from the Prime Minister a great deal of praise about the results of his reign. At an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly last week, he spoke, allow me to quote that something would not be wrong. He said this: Let me reiterate once again that Slovenia has had more growth throughout the whole period than the European Union. Interest rates are as low in Slovenia as they have never been before. Inflation is the lowest so far, the country's credit rating is the highest it has ever been. Slovenia is among those countries within the EU that are least indebted. All of us, all Slovenians and Slovenians, can be proud that we have been successful in this area, we have managed to reach an agreement with the union on wage policy. It was a great success of the social partnership 'and so on. [[...]] Thus, the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, not only to the National Assembly, but also elsewhere, is planting flowers. That's what we say. But with all these wonderful successes, our government looks at the payroll every month and it is horrified. Wages and pensions are falling, and more and more are those who study how to spend the month. No, how to get rich, how to survive. How can an average Slovenian family survive with one, two children, when only one is in the job, a child in the school, have to pay for a rental apartment, also have to buy bread and milk and some other sneakers and jeans and pay for school in nature, school supplies and so on? How can a family survive? I repeat, not to enrich, but to survive. Slovenia is also a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1948, which states: Everyone who works has the right to a just and satisfactory reward that guarantees him and his family a worthy existence." This is therefore a problem which the whole government, and especially your ministry, must deal with. So I ask you: What should the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the government do to make a regular employee, a regular worker, earn enough to survive him and his family? And I repeat, not rich, but alive. I sent you a question a week ago and asked you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u301	Thank you for asking. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The question is very broad. You are also aware of this, so in response I will direct some direction that will show the direction in which the government works. Not what she would have done, but what she's already done in individual cases to make it through the family. Let me say, in this case, that all of what you have listed is true, as far as growth is concerned and so on, although we find that in the last two years, especially after 11 September, of course, we had lower economic growth than was expected, and that this was also known for unemployment and so on. Of course, the question of how a single family should survive depends primarily on what type of job an individual has. However, the type of job an individual has depends, of course, on several factors. On the one hand, when we enter the market economy, of course the rate of payment received by an individual depends primarily on the employer who employs such a person. As a rule, it is some kind of supply and demand for this job, which on the one hand is the demand for individual professionals and employees, and is thus mainly made on the basis of some investments. That is to say, investments are the basic generator, so to speak, the demand for employees or offers would say jobs. Therefore, in my view, if you have already asked how or what would be most appropriate, it is, of course, essential to accelerate the growth of investments, which we could say, even with individual measures, even with lower interest rates, of course we have done and we are working. The other is on the job offer side. Here we find, and if you want the opinion that I would like to share with you here, of course it depends very much on the level of education. In some segments, in some environments, in some industries, the level of education is too low in my opinion, and in both the country and the country would work to increase the level of employment through the level of education. That is why I think this part is the most important part of the job offer. If we are saying that we have demand and supply on the one hand, look, and the state urgently needs to introduce a certain social correction that makes it impossible for wages to fall below a certain level that provides, say, some definition, you have given a social charter or declaration of human rights, some level. Of course, we are aware that it is very difficult to talk about this because in each individual case the needs of an individual or of a family may vary. In any event, Slovenia has the so-called social economic correction minimum wage. The minimum wage has increased over the last three years, I have here specific data that there will be no problem, from 53.3% of the average wage after collective agreement in processing activities to 55.4% of the average wage. That is, so to speak, among the countries of the European Union among the highest percentages. Today, however, figures have been published in the daily newspaper, saying of course how much minimum wages there are in individual countries.If you have noticed, it is the highest in Luxembourg, the lowest, I think Latvia and Slovenia is located somewhere in the middle, depending on the level of development. And as a percentage of the average wage, it's one of the highest. In the social agreement, somehow the number we would like to approach is about 58% of the average wage, which means that this would be a certain level. With monetary social assistance, because, of course, now we do not have enough time to go deep and, of course, there is also a so-called level of minimum income. This, however, is a category under the Social Protection Act that is supposed to enable a better life for an individual who can, from time to time, find himself in problems that are either the results of job loss or some other. And there are other social adjustments brought by the Social Protection Act. In the area of family policy, of course, for a particular family with a certain level of income, the information is that about 400,000 recipients are acquired in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u304	In principle, you replied that there was a need to increase supply and demand. This is also called the level of employability and education. A very general response, which the government did not know at the beginning of this mandate, because the supply did not increase, demand increased, employment did not increase. Next. When you talk about a percentage increase that should apply to the lowest wage relative to the average wage, this percentage can, of course, be among the highest in Europe, given that the average wage is very, very much at the lower limit among the lowest. It remains with all these thanks and successes, which Mr President of the Prime Minister always likes to repeat, the question of how to survive the family on the fact that wages and pensions do not yet follow the growth of living costs, the most vital cost of living. We're not talking about rising cement prices and, I don't know, building materials, we're talking about rising prices of living needs. I am not saying that only you have the blame, that the situation among employees is getting worse, but it is a fact that the entire government coalition should be aware of, including the pensioner's pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u306	My answer was the same as your question. I also tried to answer with some specific numbers. Let me also answer the question as regards the re-data, although I am aware that these data are statistics and it is difficult to answer the question on a case-by-case basis, because the needs of individuals can be very different, even in terms of the health status of individuals and so on. However, your information that you have said that in fact average wages or wage increases do not reach the growth of the cost of living, which I regret to say is not the case. That we have on average growth, real wage growth, let's say from 1997 to 2003, this was also addressed by the Economic Social Council - I think two months ago - and he found that the average wage growth - we are talking, of course, about statistics - was 2%. That was real growth. This is said to have increased after the increase in living costs or inflation plus 2% more than that, but under productivity growth, which was also some agreement between the social partners over a period of time, because in fact productivity growth must also provide some accumulation, we will say, which is then the basis for investment. Finally, I would say that I share your concern here, of course, for every citizen and citizen, but I could say that in the last period or in the period of this government there have been quite a few shifts, of course probably not enough and not at all heights or scales. Finally, reports, if we are talking about an assessment of the social protection system for Slovenia, are favourable and assess Slovenia as one of the modern or most modern social systems. There are, of course, more questions here. Once again, I would point out that in the final stage or what we say in the economy, in the last instance, the most important aggregate is, of course, economic growth. And this needs to be kept under constant care, so to speak, through monetary instruments as well as instruments in the real economy, among which I consider the volume of investments and, of course, the structure of investments among the most important.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić will ask the Minister of Culture, who is justifiably absent, the question raised by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Of course I'd rather see the secretary here, because I'd have more time to talk to her. To the Minister of Culture, I would ask the question: Under what criteria does the Minister of Culture distribute the money to the magazines Our home from Venice and the diary from Trieste? The marine log is a journal, and in Venice there are fifteen days, a list with a few pages. I've been talking to people living in Venice about this problem. In fact, they invited me to talk and highlighted this problem. They said they didn't get almost anything so the leaf could survive and it's also an abstinence year because they didn't have any funds. This paper is funded by entrepreneurs, foreigners. We also witness the fact that we also receive the Maritime Diary by Members, I don't know if we all get it and if it comes every day. I keep it on my desk even though we didn't order it, at least I didn't. Somehow it would seem that we have even been forced to do something, but this is paid by the state of Slovenia. So, for the Coastal Diary, money is money because it's 50 times more quantitative than our home. We speak and adopt laws on the use of Slovenian in the interest of preserving Slovenian language and values. Why can't it be passed on to Slovenians in Venice who really want it? Why the stepmotherly attitude toward this population? I would like to ask if the Minister would answer this question as soon as possible, given that our mandate is ending, so that she can provide this answer to the Slovenians in Venice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Minister will answer you in writing. There's no Mr. Viceroy. The Minister of Finance will be asked the question by Dr Andrej Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I am aware of the fact that today Mr Minister cannot be in this national assembly. I also take that as an urgent matter of his responsibility. But I would like to raise this question. According to information published by the public media and coming from so-called well-informed circles, which are not intended to be part of this National Assembly, the State or both of the para-State Funds of the Code and the Court of Justice and the DSU, the successor of the Srd, the Slovenian Development Society, is expected to decide very quickly this year, but as always in an extremely imprudent way to sell capital shares from the largest or key companies. In the case of a large number of companies, the sale of State shares in Gorenje is announced. The sale of Smelt is also discussed where the majority share of the capital, compensation and DSU are held. It is an important company, which, in its works operating in Switzerland and elsewhere in the world, is still financially strong. In Ljubljana, however, Smelt Palace is known to all. And to all Slovenians, a plane that would be a much better choice for the government than an infamous falcon. In this case, according to the tradition of the ruling structure, Israbenz bought a non-state stake at a publicly unpredictable price. These and similar sales of state shares in companies obviously concern not only economic criteria but also political considerations. Why is the government in such a hurry? Is it not all about further reallocation and concentration of property in the interest of politically influential individuals or groups and to the detriment of the state, as citizens and citizens, as direct owners of these funds? On the other hand, it is clear from the business data of the capital company and the compensation company that they generate an extremely low profit on the capital they have at their disposal. Last year, the capital company generated only 480 million tolls of capital profits, which amounted to more than 240 billion dollars at the end of 2003, and it also operates with 60 billion tolars of funds. A very small profit was also shown by the compensation fund and the fund of agricultural land and forests. Regardless of the excuses given by the parastatal fund administrations, the profits that would have been poured into the state budget are far too small, given the extent of the state resources they have at their disposal. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Given the well-known problems in the area of public finances, what have you done to ensure that the sale of state shares in companies is actually at the best possible price for sellers, even for the state budget? What are you going to do about it? Why has the government so far been so successful in efficacious solutions in this area that large shareholding societies in which the state has an indirect or direct decisive word are not listed? Surely you agree with such a professional approach, as this would certainly significantly increase transparency through the supervision of the Securities Market Agency and the capital market itself. Why is the government afraid of control and transparency? What are you going to do to make this happen? As Finance Minister, are you satisfied with the supervision of the correctness and prudence of the management of this property, as well as with the supervision of sales procedures and the purchase of state shares in companies. Mr. Minister, what are you going to do to make the situation significantly better? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, who is also excusedly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the Minister is urgently detained, I will ask an oral question, but I would like to ask for a written answer. Housing conditions have not been encouraging for many years, housing construction is taking place too slowly and is far behind the needs. The large deficit in the past is only increasing each year and there are more than 20,000 dwellings reported. As housing is lacking, housing prices are high, nominally even higher than in European countries and their major cities, and therefore the vast majority of the offer is intended only for richer segments of the population. However, there is a great shortage of housing for the economically less prosperous part of the population, for young families and for families with lower incomes, for the disabled and for other special groups. These are groups that live in extremely difficult situations and have low credit capacity, and therefore obtaining housing is an almost unattainable goal. The national housing savings scheme is not intended for this important part of the population simply because they do not have the resources to pay. In 2000, a national housing programme was adopted, which records the annual needs assessment, says 10,000 dwellings per year, of which 45% and 4,500 non-profit and social housing. As acceptable as 2,000 to 2,500 housing units per year, 1,800 housing units are foreseen for this year. However, according to data in the last thirteen years, from 1991 to 2003, some 8,100 dwellings have been built or some more than 600 a year, meaning only a quarter of the needed units. At the same time, this also means that it takes 35 to 40 years to cover current needs or demand without accounting for annual growth, and this is also significant in view of social trends, as statistics record smaller families each year and the increase in household numbers, which is why this deficit is only growing. The Ombudsman also draws attention to this problem in this year's and past reports, which, among other things, points out that the resolution of this problem is too left to the municipalities. Last year, we passed a housing law in which we further legalised the possibility of introducing compulsory participation for renting a non-profit apartment, which only limited access to apartments to those most difficult categories. The national programme adopted in 2000 also states that direct state budget interventions are a rule in developed capitalism and not an exception. We don't have an exception. The only concrete proposal for the promotion of this type of construction was rejected two months ago in this National Assembly, which is why the question is when and how will this problem of non-profit housing be addressed more than on the ground. The State or the competent ministry is responsible for such a catastrophic situation. Therefore, I would also like to ask: What is planned to be done to make a more effective approach to the construction of non-profit apartments, especially for those who are struggling with the most difficult financial and social problems as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u313	Thank you very much. You'll get a written answer. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u314	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will ask the question, although the Minister is not here today, but I will ask for a letter of reply. After the introduction of a nine-year-old, parents complain that their spending on textbooks, work volumes and other school supplies has increased significantly. Slovenia is a kind of oasis in Europe, as everywhere else children get textbooks and school work volumes at very low prices, only in our bookstores must be expensive. Prices are also high due to excessive luxury performances that do not correspond to the purpose of the textbook. The textbook is only a working tool that performs its function at the end of the year when the content is translated into the knowledge of the students. Students must have the right to underline, label and supplement the text with their notes, which is only possible if their textbooks are theirs. This applies even more to work volumes. The task of the school is primarily to teach students how to learn effectively, so we are very skeptical of the textbook funds that come from a completely different logic, because students whose parents cannot buy too expensive textbooks, these textbooks must be careful not to use them as effectively as their more powerful peers. You allow Slovenia more than five textbooks for the same class in a single curriculum, although this is related to the high costs that authors, reviewers, different commissions, printers and sellers cut off. Why don't you set up a single textbook for the whole country to be printed in one printer with a state concession and why don't you organise a direct distribution of textbooks to schools that are then sold to students at a non-profit price? Regarding the existing system, I ask you: How many different titles of textbooks and working notebooks are currently available for a nine-year-old? How many authors and reviewers received fees for textbooks or workbooks this school year, and how much was the total amount of fees? How many printing plants does the textbook print? How much are their total revenue from the printing of textbooks and work volumes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Podobnik, despite the absence of the Minister, will you ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u316	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Minister, like his fellow Member, Dr Bayuk, has informed me that he is urgently detained today because of his important duties as Minister of Finance, but I would like to ask the question of the Member of Parliament, and I hope that I will receive a written answer or reply to it. The current law on the financing of municipalities places certain Slovenian municipalities in a deprived position. Here I would mention at least two congregations, the congregation of Idrija and the congregation of Cerkno. What's this all about? The way or concept of this law affects such congregations, especially in investment, such as in school premises, schools, gyms, and some other facilities. These municipalities must be significantly more co-financing of municipal money when they are running for state funds. In my opinion, it is some built-in injustice in the law itself, so I ask the Minister of Finance because I know that a new law has been drawn up for years: Is the law ready? What is the concept of this law? Will the law be more just and will it also incorporate in its solutions some elements that will also - for example, heavy terrain, high-mountain areas, high-growth, difficult winters and so on, elements that will enable such municipalities to exercise better law and jurisdiction, and especially when these municipalities, such as the municipalities of Idrija, Cerkno and similar decision-making for investments in school space, schools, gymnasiums, will have the same position as other Slovene municipalities? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Sok will ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I'm not sure there's any point in asking this question right now, but it's possible for a magnetogram, once and for all. The Minister for Environment and Space, who really had to leave today because of what happened, I wanted to ask the following questions. In Novi Slovenija, we have always opposed the ratification of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. When we were unable to reach and convince the majority in the National Assembly that this ratification was harmful to Slovenia, then we obstructed the decision-making process. However, the law on ratification was, of course, adopted. Our concerns were mainly linked to two: Firstly, we did not agree with the decision on two separate decommissioning funds, as provided for in Article 11 of the Treaty. The same Article also provides that both Parties, Slovenia and Croatia, will, in effect, finance each half of the costs associated with the programme of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste. We have already noted that the draft directive of the European Union on the management of nuclear waste stipulates that all waste must be taken care of by the country in which the facility is located. The second point of our disagreement with ratification was, however, the way in which the nuclear power plant was set up and operated. The mandate of this government is now due to expire, Mr Minister, and no contract has been implemented until now, as far as Croatia is concerned, except for the fact that the nuclear power plant is re-enacting half of the electricity to Croatia. In our decommissioning fund, EUR 25 million has been raised so far, and Croatia has not even started to establish it at the legal and formal level, except to raise certain funds, part of certain funds. The fact is, in nine years' time, the landfill, despite the problems with the location, will have to be. It can happen that, as this government is dealing with the biggest problems, it will not and waste will have to be exported. For Croatia's statements make it clear that Croatia does not intend to build landfills on its territory. Quite something else in financial terms, much harder, of course, is the question of decommissioning. Experts are already saying that one billion euros and not one billion marks will have to be collected for decommissioning in 2023, as set out in the Treaty. In any event, the ratification by which an attempt has been made to resolve the lost power outage is subject to a strong question, in particular as regards the obligation regarding the fund. Do you still think, Mr. Minister, that the ratification of this treaty, which went in package with the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, was correct now that your mandate ends? And: How do you respond to the fact that Croatia has not collected a single euro in its decommissioning fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u319	Thank you very much. And last today, Mr Ivan Mamić, who asked the Minister of Transport a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister of Transport. At the January session, I asked a question from the Member States regarding the blue markings on the fast road for the Selo-Vipava section. In response, Mr Presečnik, the former Minister of Transport said that he was already in the process of replacing the blues for the green tables. That means the ride won't be 90 km, but it will be allowed 110 km. I wonder: When will this replacement be realized because it is a small change in the number of tables and also in money? The drivers are still paying for the speedy ride on the road reserved for motor vehicles, even though it is the same road across the road from Vertojba to Vipava. I was complained to by drivers across the Vipavska Valley, and they said that this was purposefully done in order to raise as much money as possible into the state treasury, into the budget. That way at least part of this question could be asked to the Minister of the Interior, but please, Mr Minister, if you can answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Member, for this question. Well, in fact, it's true that my predecessor, if I'm not mistaken at the beginning of February, answered in writing, but apparently this issue is not sufficiently understood. I don't think it'll be necessary to explain it more simply. The fact is that the highway or road in the Vipavska Valley is all over all documents: spatial development, national programme and categorisation, which is classified among the so-called fast roads, which means that they are four lanes without lanes, which means that the speed is currently limited to 100 kilometers - if I am not mistaken. This speed will be increased by amendments to the Road Safety Act. I would like to tell you why this road is a fast road and why it will never be categorized as a highway. For three reasons. The first reason is that we have a highway to the Fernetians now. The second reason is that, in terms of traffic safety, this part does not allow for faster driving, in particular due to the large number of trucks. And the third reason is ecological; we know that higher speed is also a higher concentration of carbon dioxide, and this is not allowed in this extremely agricultural subtile area. That's why the problem lies somewhere else. The question is - not when will Dars replace the blue table with the green table, but when will he replace the blue table in this last section of the green table. These green tables, which now exist and which in fact seem to indicate that it is a highway, exist from the time of the osmrich agreements which predicted this route as a highway, but then it was a highway, as it said, directed towards the Fernetics. As soon as the new Road Safety Act enters into force, Dars will take action and replace these tables, which are now green, with blue, so that the whole Vipava road will be categorised as a fast road and this limit will be slightly increased to 110 kilometres per hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u324	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to have to say this, but it looks like you didn't understand the question. From Spinning to Village there are green tables, from Sela to Vipave there are blue tables. This is said to be a different mode of driving on exactly the same road, because this is exactly the same fast road, according to the same plan, previous profiles, every 20 meters, if we're accurate, are all the same from Turn to Vipava. Why are they green to the village and blue from the village? And now the police are waiting nicely in those niches, two kilometres from Sel to Vipava, and stopping drivers who drive the same way they did earlier. And then the driver says, "Yeah, there's a green board, and there's blue, why? Or just to collect money?" The policeman smiles and says, "Save it in the National Assembly." I hope I've made myself clear now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u325	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u326	Mr. Ambassador, sometimes the look suggests that things don't come up quickly, but the look cheats a lot. So once again, not that green or blue tables have to be replaced. It will be necessary to unify the highway so that it will be completely fast, not as you imagine it to be green. And this will happen as soon as the transport legislation is in line with the internal or protective legislation; this can be done from 1 January 2005. Once this is settled, the green tables will be replaced with blues and there will be no doubt that the whole VIP highway is under the 110km-to-hour regime, so below, if you want, in quotations, "blue mode". I hope I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Allow me to thank the Prime Minister and ministers for the answers given today. I also ask the representatives and representatives of the Government, on behalf of the Members and Members, to answer some questions that have not been answered in writing. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting. At 7 p.m., we will move on to the B1 agenda item, which is the election of the President of the National Assembly. So at 19:00, we proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u328	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving to the B1 DOT OF THE DAY - THE VOYAGE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE STATE CONGREGATION. Today, until 12 noon, when the deadline for the submission of candidates for the election of the President of the National Assembly has expired, proposal 9.7.2004 was submitted by a group of 40 Members and Members, with the first-signed Borut Pahor, who proposes Mr Franz Ferri Horvat as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the proposers wish to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members or Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups forwarded proposals to the members of the panel leading the vote. The Commission's proposal is as follows: Rudolf Moge, Jože Tanko, Aurelio Juri and Peter Levič. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. There are 68 of us present, and 65 votes in favour against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and the Commission has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Member shall be given a vote by each Member to the President's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to the vote. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 7.20 p.m. and will last for 15 minutes, so to speak, at 19.35 p.m. the vote will be closed. After the vote, I ask Members to assist me in the vote to reconvene in room 217. We'll continue the session at 7:50.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u329	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the media! Allow me to present the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 July 2004. 83 ballots were distributed, 83 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, 92 ballots were valid. 82 voicemails. The president also made a mistake, 82 votes valid, 74 votes in favour and 74 votes in favour. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Eight Members and Members voted against it. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was elected by the majority of the votes of all Members to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Franz Ferri Horvat. Allow me, on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues, to congratulate our fellow Member, Franz Ferri Horvat, for his election as the fifth President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Now I'm going to give my word to the new president because he wants to speak. After his address, we'll take ten minutes off and then switch to the vice president's election. President Franz Ferry Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u330	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thank you for your expressed trust and especially for your many and great trust. Unfortunately, today’s work of the National Assembly is also accompanied by a sad event. I think of the earthquake that we have felt here in this Chamber, and I would like to take this opportunity - I hope that you will not allow me to do so - on behalf of this national assembly, to express my readiness to all citizens and citizens in the earthquake area or in the earthquake area, so that, as always, we will do everything we need to do to remedy the consequences of the earthquake. Let me put it this way. So much trust is my additional commitment and commitment that, during this term of office, until the establishment of a new national assembly after the elections, which will be held responsible on 3 October and in the framework of my powers in cooperation with you, colleagues and colleagues, with the parliamentary groups, the services of the National Assembly, the government, civil society and last but not least with the media, who are constantly actively monitoring our work, I will do everything to justify your confidence in the well-being of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u331	Mr President, I wish you a successful job. The vice presidents will help you at this time. I now give 10 minutes' rest and then we move on to the next item of the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u332	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since my meeting at this important point is a so-called fiery baptism, I ask you to understand if I will make a mistake. I'm sure it won't be intentional, but it's lack of practice. With the help of the Secretary-General and your constructive cooperation, I hope that I will manage this point properly. We are moving on to agenda No. 1 of the agenda - to the will of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Today until 12 p.m., when the deadline for the submission of nominations for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly was reached, the proposal was submitted by a group of 11 Members with the first-signed Janez Janša, who proposed Dr Dimitri Rupl as Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask, does the representative of the proposers wish to further explain his proposal? Comrade France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u333	Dear President, your honors are here! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 20 require that one of the Vice-Presidents of the largest opposition parliamentary group. Since our fellow Member, Mr Brejc, has been elected to the European Parliament and has already resigned from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has decided to propose a new Vice-President of its kind, Dr Dimitri Ruple, who has also agreed to the candidacy. In view of the election to the European Parliament, Mr Pahor has also resigned from the presidency of the National Assembly, and we have not commented on the proposal of the United List's Group of Members in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we have supported it because we believe that the United Nations Group has the right to propose any of its kind instead of Pahor. We also fully understand that government parties do not have much sympathy for the opposition parliamentary group and their proposal for a new Vice-President of the National Assembly. We expect, however, that we will all take into account the provision of Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure together and respect the right of the Group of Members to propose a candidate of its own kind at the discretion of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u334	Thanks for the extra explanation. I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, composed of the chairmen and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the panel to chair the vote. These are: Rudolf Moge [[LDS]] , Jože Tanko [[SDS]] Aurelio Yuri [[Combined List]] and Peter Levich [[SMS]] . I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. I ask, does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. There are 79 of us present, 75 votes against 2. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the table of the intervener and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, by which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 20.25 hours and will last up to 20.40 hours - 15 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll resume the session at 20.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u335	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue the meeting by adjourned reading No 1 of the item - this is the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Let me read the record. Following the conclusion of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 July 2004. 84 ballots were distributed, 55 votes, 8 ballots invalid, 47 votes valid. There were 42 votes in favour, with 5 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was not elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Dimitrij Rupel. Since the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes, the candidate procedure and the voting procedure shall be repeated on the basis of a new proposal for a candidate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the next point led by a colleague of the vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day - that's the first defensively proposed law on the Eastern Partnership. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, with 10 Members in the group, the first to be signed. Janez Petty Officer demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. Between us, I warmly welcome both representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and invite Mrs Alenko Kovšca, State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to give us a further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mrs. Kovsca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u337	Honourable Members and Members, President. Allow me, because this is the first item of the agenda after the election, I would like to offer all congratulations to Ferry Horvath for his views and to the explanation of the same-sex partnership law. The preparation and coordination of this law has been ongoing for many years. From the first initiatives to regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships, which coincide with the implementation of the multilateral system to the first draft already in 1999. It has been cited as an inadequate basis for civil society movements, as it addressed only some issues relating to mutual property relations, further stigmatised the partnership and did not resolve the issue of social rights and obligations, which are fundamental to the equalization of opportunities for the exercise of rights and the application of equality before the law. The basis for the exercise of rights in the same sex is certainly the Slovenian Constitution. Article 14 on equality before the law guarantees equal human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other belief, material status, birth, education, social status or any other personal situation, including sexual orientation. Article 15 of the Constitution provides that human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be exercised directly and on the basis of the Constitution, and that human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be limited only to the rights of others and to the cases provided for in this Constitution. If equality before the law cannot be achieved directly through the application of constitutional provisions, it is, of course, essential that the specific law regulates all those issues that enable the exercise of rights and thus also apply equality before the law; in this case, the coexistence of two persons of different and equal sexes. Article 53 of the Constitution provides that marriage is based on the equality of spouses, while the Marriage and Family Status Act, in its Article 3, narrows the marriage relationship by stipulating that it is a regulated marriage of husband and wife, so it is not possible, on the basis of this substantive provision, to conclude the marriage of two persons of the same sex and therefore not to exercise the rights deriving from such a union. The legislator considered that the living community of two persons of the same sex is a real phenomenon and that it has been released from legal regulation so far, even though we know that such communities exist in real life and that, by co-existence, they face very important legal and life obstacles. The legislator had two options: either to fully align the community of two persons of the same sex with the heterosexual community into settling the existing law on marriage and family relations, or to settle this issue with a specific law. The answer and the consensus of the civil society groups decided on the latter. Civil social movements and individuals that have for a long time pointed out the problem of the exercise of cohabitation rights such as: the status of a relative, the obligation to survive, the sharing of property, the exercise of social rights, inheritances, the status of a privileged witness. All of this is and puts members, individuals of this community, in a deprived, unequal position, because, irrespective of the exercise of their duty to the State by paying taxes, contributions, respect for the rights of others, they do not have the opportunity to exercise and exercise rights as individuals in the event of death, inheritance sickness, citizenship, healthcare, the exercise of social rights benefits. The situation as it is is subnormal and the regulation of these life issues is in line with the rule of law. And not only is it in the interest of any regulated society to support the communities and coexistence of persons in whom they can realize and satisfy the need for belonging, trust, assistance. It is not unknown that people living in an emotionally stable community, a secure environment, an environment of understanding and support also represent the support and stability of a wider community. The proposal for a law means the realization of the following objectives and principles. The first and fundamental objective is to regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships. In doing so, the applicant also took into account the social circumstances in the Slovenian space. Therefore, the law does not eliminate the differences between heterosexual and same-sex relationships and does not equalize both relationships either in a symbolic or formal sense. The same-sex partnership guarantees only certain rights arising from the relationship between partners, rather than rights from family relations with children, also does not give the right to adopt a child. The proposer proposes by this law the arrangements for the conclusion of a same-sex partnership between two persons of the same sex, the conditions for its entry into the register of origin, lays down the legal consequences arising from the conclusion of the relationship and regulates its termination. Within the scope of regulating the relationship between partners, the proposer also proposes to establish legal consequences for the partner in other areas of social relations governed by other laws. Human rights are not something that we can undergo every time we check or even the current state of the spirit and morality. They're not something we count on and look for the majority. The fight for human rights has been a process, a civil issue, a consensus reached between people and people who have criteria for integration and not exclusion. This standard is also enshrined as the highest criterion in the preamble to the Slovenian Constitution. Freedom is a wide space, replaced only by an intervention in the freedom of another. And the law on same-sex relationships certainly does not interfere in any way with the freedom of others, but gives freedom of choice. Besides the legal arrangements of same-sex relationships, however, it is symbolic because it raises the threshold of tolerance, acceptance, humanity and recognises the willingness of the majority community to coexist in diversity. At the beginning of the drafting of the law, the atmosphere in Slovenia was still very uncertain. The media, public debates and broadcasts, the launching of an unknown public declaration of visible policies on the need for law, patient discussion, the culture of dialogue has helped to make this law one of the bright points where it is possible to prove that tolerance is part of our culture and that Article 14 of the Constitution is a respected principle. With an unenviable 30% on increasingly optimistic and majority 54% of citizens and citizens of Slovenia who say they need to regulate this issue legally, the long way was to seek political and social consensus. That's the kind of law you need. Here goes the recognition of all coalition parties, including the large part of the Slovenian People's Party, who, until the last time in the patient dialogue, sought together with the government representatives of the consensus that is before us today. That this is not only an exclusive issue of Slovenia, the data of the European countries, including the members of the communities, which tell us that the framework that legitimizes the marriage of the same sex has already introduced a number of countries: Denmark, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Iceland, France, Germany, which has even been subtitled by the law on the end of discrimination against same-sex communities, Portugal, Belgium, Finland three United States of America, Canada, Spain Catalonia, Hungary, Croatia and last month also Switzerland. With the aim and expectation that we have also been able to find a political consensus in Slovenia on the need for this law, I should be allowed to quote at the end the words of a world-renowned policy which says: "Let us build a home for the 20th century where every place is at the table and where no children are forgotten." We've been in the new millennium ever since. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u338	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj, the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, will be presented to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u339	Thank you so much for saying that. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law opens up an opportunity to discuss where to put freedom of choice in this historic period, which, in our view, constitutes one of the fundamental human rights. The proposal is also an opportunity to talk out loud about this and thus the possibility of overcoming the stereotype, which is aimed at the same-sex-oriented. After 25 years, since the total has become a representation for the same or at least comparable rights of same-sex global phenomenon, we believe that it is necessary to take a step further. Not only is most of Europe aware of this fact. Recently, as we have heard, many countries from Croatia to Spain have adopted laws similar to those proposed by the Western Council. And despite the fact that international documents dictate the recognition of same-sex rights at a symbolic level, obstacles must be overcome. Experience from abroad, since they have long recognised same-sex rights at different levels, we know that the law of rights is only the first step towards non-discriminatory behaviour. Many same - sex workers face discrimination not only in employment, but also in health care. Because of the negative behavior of doctors, sexual orientation cannot be trusted and the same-sex concerns are mostly not included in the various studies in general and preventive health care. But we all know that they are same-sex for a variety of diseases. In any event, the most obvious silent, apart from invisible discrimination, is also present at other institutional levels. Homosexuality is certainly no advantage, but it is not something to be ashamed of. The terminology of the resolution on equal rights between gays and lesbians, which is one of the most important international instruments in this area, is unequivocal. The resolution requires equal rights and not personal rights. Despite the great efforts that will have to be made to bring "de facto" closer to terminology, in the DeSUS Group, we see in the bill at least a good basis for discussion, opportunity for discussion and bridging some obstacles. Homosexual relations in our culture are no longer taboo themes today, yet we face such or other resistances every day when the word on same-sex relationships is on the move. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we believe that the right to choose a partner is the choice of each individual and that the country should not be prejudiced in any way by that decision. Nor should the state restrict the legitimate wishes of its citizens. By adopting the proposed law, we will prove that we are committed to pluralism, tolerance and openness. These are also values of democracy. In fact, we also protect our rights to protect the rights of this group of citizens. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for a law is a good basis for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u340	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Madam President. A proposal for a law on registered partnerships is needed. We regret that it is only now that he has been able to come to the last regular session of this reference in our bench, when there is virtually no possibility that the law will be adopted in this mandate. The first-reading request, however, has further extended the legislative procedure and thus has practically destroyed the possibility that the proposal for a law should be dealt with at least on the home working body. What his fate will be in the next term, however, no one can predict. The European Parliament's recommendation that the fundamental rights of the EU include the right of homosexual couples to marry and calls, as it says, against all discrimination, both legal and factual, to whom homosexual victims are. Let me start with the constitution. It is intended to protect citizens and their human rights, regardless of their personal circumstances and the right to a life partner, irrespective of their gender - it is also one of them. It seems to me that there have been so many obvious violations of these constitutional rights in Slovenia recently that this law will not help them to respect them. The intolerance to others is already so prevalent in Slovenia that sometimes it is wrong to dress differently. The desire to be as similar as possible to others and to be part of an unexposed environment will be of little help to us as we join the great crowds of nations and cultures. If we are not able to adopt different cultures equally, we will not be able to maintain ours. How can we expect someone to take us on an equal footing and respect our human rights if we do not respect their own? This is how we always like to expose our development and openness, but we are always falling back on the test of respect for human rights. We have a law on same-sex partnerships on the bench. Some of the parties have already denied him support before he even came to the parliamentary bench. The human right to choose for himself a partner with whom to create a living community is certainly one of the fundamental rights. And if it's the same sex with the same person - what's the point! Who cares who someone lives with in a common household, why someone would not have the same right as all other citizens just because their partner is the same sex. Is that why he's any less human? Is that why his love is any less valuable? Therefore, we do not understand the fear of some who so strongly and passionately oppose this bill, especially because this law only brings about the registration of partner communities. Out of fear of a possible later referendum, when the law ends in the same way as the law on fertilisation with biomedical aid, the law does not allow marriage, but only the registration of partnership. It is the fear of those who feel that this will make marriage partners completely equal to the marriages of heterosexual couples and that the concept of a family will be affected. For the legal recognition of a homosexual union, as provided for by law, gives homosexual couples a more equal position than couples of opposite sex, in no way the same. In concluding a relationship between the same-sex partners, it will not be a marriage, but rather a registered partnership. The law will eliminate some existing anomalies and allow same-sex couples to regulate property conditions, inheritance, social and economic security of partners. Of course, this arrangement of the situation of homosexual couples is agreed upon by all, since some believe that this relationship is illegal, immoral and socially unprofitable. Everyone has the right to an opinion, of course, but we must not forget that moral beliefs are one thing, but the modern principles of the rule of law and the rule of law are something completely different. The legal alignment of couples of the same sex with heterosexual couples cannot therefore be an immoral and illegal act, but merely a confirmation of the legal equality of all citizens. We will support the law in the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u342	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u343	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. In NGOs that have been working for years to systematically regulate the situation of partners of the same sex, they will now be able to take at least some time off, as the ruling coalition has placed on the agenda of the last parliamentary session a proposal for a law on same-sex partnership. It is as if the regulation of this issue is one of the more important national issues that still needs to be addressed, although it is clear that the proposal will remain halfway through the general discussion that we have requested in our Group of Members. It seems that it is necessary to deal with the same-sex partnership in a single way in order for this house to be tidyed up. You withdrew the Promotion of Regional Development Act by explaining that there is no longer time for admission. What a duplicity! The Equalisation Schemes Act, which would in fact solve the situation of some 100,000 pensioners in the longer term, also found no place in the procedure. If the proposal is already on the agenda, in our Group of Members, we wanted the general discussion to be clearly defined by Members and Members of the Group on issues which can, we do not deny, be very important to individuals and groups, so that the public can properly assess who is taking the lead and what it stands for, and we do not want to agree to a model of voting that has all too often taken place in this House. Thematics is life, and it's only right that we don't shut our eyes. The fact is, there are people living between us, one quieter because they don't hope to admit the bells, the others are more on the lookout, because they don't want to hide their homosexual identity. Homosexuality as a form of sexual orientation is not a fruit of modern society, it has been present since the beginning, only the relationship to it has changed. In modern times, homosexuality is not criminalised in democratic countries and more and more countries have rules that explicitly prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. The Slovenian Constitution in Article 14 speaks of the equal situation of all citizens, but we also have paragraphs 53 and 54, which clearly state what marriage is and that marriage is formed by men and women. The legal basis between the proposed law on same-sex communities and the applicable law on marriage is extremely narrow. That is why we reject such a solution. The proposed law is in fact adapted under the law on marriage.It grants them the same rights and duties, with the exception of adoptive rights of children. They could inherit by partner, they could be granted common property, they could be insured by partner, and the registration process of the same sex community would be similar to the current civil marriage of the parent. We are determined that the equality of homosexual and heterosexual communities is not taken into account, which does not mean that homosexual communities must be discriminated against. Marriage can't equal something that can't be even. Each individual shall act in a life-style manner and no one shall have the right to interfere with the autonomy of the individual. We do not deny to homosexual communities the rights that belong to them, but we want them to be regulated in a way that is inherent in homosexual communities, to be placed in society in a specific way that is autonomous and independent. In Novi Slovenija we understand the equation of the same-sex partnership with the marriage relationship between husband and wife for the grave intervention in our basic notions of the regulation of society as such and therefore we believe that there is no comparison between the marriage of husband and wife and the same-sex partners. We advocate a family policy based on the permanent marriage of the husband and wife, as set out in Article 53, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. We view the marriage of husband and wife as a basic form of community and family as the first unacceptable form of common life in society. Therefore, in our view, a lasting marriage is the real basis for a mutually responsible husband and wife and their family to share responsibility for children. This does not mean that we are opposed to solving problems, in particular the legal character that occurs in same-sex partnerships. In New Slovenia, we consistently recognise as one of the basic principles of every free democratic and pluralistic society, the freedom of an individual to decide on his private life. This also applies to the area of his sexuality as part of human intimacy, so we reject and oppose discrimination against same-sex individuals and individuals and their personal relationship in general social life. We recognize their right to live as decent and full a life as possible. We do not deny to the homosexual communities the rights that belong to them, but we believe that they could be resolved by proper regulation of the respective legal or legal areas, such as the French model of a solution - the same-sex partners conclude a so-called solidarity agreement that deals with issues relating to property, an example of disease, inheritance, credit and the like. It is clear that the LDS and the United List would, if they really wanted to, adopt the law in this reference, because they had all the procedural and political options to do so, it is said that a majority is required. However, it is not good for this bill to become the subject of a pre-election fight. Therefore, the opening of this topic at the last meeting makes no sense and shows that the ruling coalition wants to ease the pressure of activists and show that it is somehow trying to comply with the pre-election commitments of four years ago. We are convinced that such an appeal for the adoption of law and such publicity to the same-sex-oriented does not do much good. Efforts to achieve the social recognition they so desire may also indicate, in many ways, that the purpose of the law is not the same as marriage, but that the promotion of homosexuality by means of a country that is supposed to eliminate the negative ethical sign of such a partnership choice. This duality is unacceptable when the circle of people where one and the same individuals appear underestimates the marriage relationship between a man and a woman and takes its place, for marriages, and for rituals between same-sex partners, and strives for all burdens. Although the applicants argue that the law does not, in a symbolic sense and in a formal sense, equalize the same-sex partnership with the marriage union as that of the husband and wife, experience shows that this is only the beginning of a process that eventually ends in changing something, which has been considered a solid foundation for the development of human society for centuries. Due to our understanding of the marriage and the Nova Slovenija family, there remains a party that strongly supports the law and family in its existing and only possible form, and we do not oppose the relevant legislation in the field of same-sex partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u344	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u345	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin my reading of the opinion of the UK Group of Social Democrats, with the reference to English playwright Harold Pinter, who said "live and let live". The requirement for a general debate on the proposal for a law is consistent with business regulations and there is nothing extraordinary about this. On the right reasons and purposes for it, we should, however, seek an answer from the applicants. However, according to some of their statements, they do not merely wish to present their views in the general debate on the law which concerns important and sensitive issues for society as a whole, but will try to stop the continuation of the legislative procedure, which must end if it is decided that the law is not appropriate for a second hearing. The inclusion of the first reading of the proposal for a law on same-sex partnership has been supported in the United List of Social Democrats, although we are aware that the National Assembly in this composition will not be able to adopt it. In our Group of Members, we regret that the harmonisation of the text has taken place so long and that the expectations of an interested group of citizens and citizens will remain unfulfilled. That is why we see the sense of the general debate mainly in that this is an opportunity to inform the public of the proposal for a law. It is possible to see that many are opposed to the law because they have no real idea of what matters are being handled. Thoughts grow from prejudice to same-sex and grow into fear of the spread of a group of same-sex and unjustifiable claims that other groups of people will be deprived of their position as a result of the regulation of their situation. It is most common to see allegations that this will result in disadvantaged families. It is therefore most important to convince the public that the law does not endanger anyone and does not want to change stable values. Certain groups of citizens and citizens are able to regulate certain relationships so that they are not placed in a worse position than the majority. We have long been aware of the problems of the legal void for a group of same-sex clients in our party. That is why, at the 2001 party's Congress in Cyprus, we decided that we would work to regulate their situation legally. We have also stressed the support of this group of citizens and citizens in all public performances, as for the Social Democrats, support for minority groups and the provision of human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the basic programme directions. Therefore, the United List of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the same-sex partnership law. We rely on our position on respect for universal values, which guarantee equality before the law and respect for human rights and freedoms, thus also linking the prohibition of discrimination due to sexual orientation. Notwithstanding the fact that the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is enshrined in the Constitution and is legislated in the Criminal Code in Article 141 and in the Labour Relations Act, in Article 6, and now, finally also in the Equal Treatment Act, it is appropriate to regulate the legal and property issues concerning the community of two adults of the same sex in a specific law. Because they are released from the law on marriage and family relations. This only strengthens the ability to accept differences and recognizes that such communities exist in real life. The proposal for a law has been a long time and in cooperation with NGOs. Even when an interested group participated in its preparation, we see nothing unacceptable, since they have the most information on how to regulate the situation of same-sex unions in other European Union countries and in the current European legal order. We agree that there is a need to reach a social consensus on what arrangements we will decide on. In seeking support for the bill, more coordination was carried out before the government introduced the law into the legislative procedure. Thus, the current proposal deviates from some of the original solutions, such as the conclusion of same-sex partnerships that were closer to the wishes of civil society, and we have agreed in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats that the law would have at least minimal reception opportunities. That is why it is very important that the law also receives the necessary support in the public and the latest opinion polls show that the public has strongly changed its attitude and that the role of the media has been essential in this regard. What does the law really regulate? The possibility of the same-sex partnership will also allow adults of the same sex to settle issues such as participation in property acquired during such a relationship, the availability of acquired property, the obligation to maintain a partner or partner, as well as social, health and other rights. They will thus be levelled in their rights in a relationship with each other as well as with the State. They are by no means equal in rights from family relations with children and do not have the original right to adopt children. The rules on termination are also laid down. The financial implications of the adopted law are provided for in the amount of 10 million needed for the computer programme to set up a database and link to the registry and for documents to conclude same-sex partnerships. This is not such a cost that the State would not be able to do so, since it is for citizens and citizens who have to comply with their obligations to the State, whether they are equal or discriminated against in the exercise of rights due to their personal circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I made a statement on behalf of the Slovenian National Party today on the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership, I said our clear position as I would say now and in the end that we are opposed to the law. The next question was why you were xenophobic. Why are we impatient in the Slovenian National Party? Maybe you're not judging, colleagues and colleagues, that it's an impatient public because it doesn't even ask us why we're opposed. I'd be very happy to explain why we're opposed. But we are impatient because we are honest and honest to say that we are opposed to the law. Go ahead, take it easy. Madam Secretary of State, you said this law has been in preparation for many years. Here. You know - please, let's avoid political conflicts, intolerance, populism and so on - many laws have been in preparation for many years. The question is, of course, who decides which laws are more important, more important or less important. In the Slovenian National Party, we have the right to think that some laws are more important than that. Either way, colleagues and colleagues, let us be clear that this law is at first reading, and we all know that in this reference this law will not go to second reading and third reading. Let's be honest! And on this basis, in the Slovenian National Party - this is our right - we can peacefully conclude that this is once again one of the pre-election political moves. If by a rapid procedure, if this law were dependent on this reference and on us, the content would be completely different - fair to all of us. The Constitution, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, as you have said, Madam Secretary of State, more than three times, but I think three times is precisely equal before the law. According to the Slovenian National Party, this article of the Constitution, 14, is sufficiently clear and gives sufficient meaning to what we are talking about today. Well, and allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to tell you exactly the reasons that we are considering and why we will oppose the proposal for the same-sex partnership law. In the Slovenian National Party, we come from the point of view or the question of why there is a need for a marriage relationship between the same-sex partners, why not registration of same-sex communities that clearly give rise to rights and obligations. That's the first question. Next. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this reference to this content is the excessive aggressiveness of the ruling policy and that this excessive aggression is the one that triggers the benefits and the downsides that meet and prevent positive changes. In addition, in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the proposed law is to the maximum extent a copy or translation of the law on marriage. Right, of course, you will all have the right and the opportunity to express your opinion, the Slovenian National Party, but yours. The law will probably be adopted, but we have our own opinion and we can express it. I'll mention the river "panta rhei", the Heraclita river that says everything runs. The law, according to the Slovenian National Party, as a set of standards lives with society and for society. I won't be long, I'll be very short, I'll be very willing to listen respectfully to my colleagues and colleagues, even you, as long as I can't listen, I'll retire to the lobby. I ask the same rights to us. The law as a set of standards lives with society and society, so there is an urgent need for constant change, and we are all aware of that. In doing so, it is important that the changes are, to the greatest extent possible, a reflection of society and a reflection of social standards. According to the Slovenian National Party, the legal norm - I think that many students can confirm this - can live with the people's awareness at the same time, and therefore, according to the Slovenian National Party, changes in areas that are thematically sensitive and touch on human rights need to be introduced gradually and step by step. In the Slovenian National Party, we asked ourselves whether the company is ready for such a change and in our view we have the right to our own opinion and our own conclusions - it is not, in our opinion. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will not be able to adopt the same-sex partnership law. Once again, I say why not register these communities, which also give rise to rights and obligations. This is a question that everyone here in this Chamber has at least the option and the right to think. And we have given our opinion, and we will insist on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u348	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u349	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! This marriage seems to be at this late hour as a fairy tale for a good night. Interestingly, we're going to have a little chat, talk in this term, it's the last session, and then we're going to sleep in the next term. That is why the question arises to me really about the purpose of this consideration, why the government has put this law at its last session. I don't see why, for a few years, the law was being prepared, I could have given it a few months earlier, I could have given it a few years earlier, but now to the first hearing at the end of the term. I don't understand. Some say it's pre-election. I don't know. If this is pre-election, then you won't get much out of it. However, the timing of the debate is probably inappropriate and I do not want or have no idea of any desire to discover the real reason why the government is, why you have included this law in the meeting. Well, you are. She's fine. The second thing is, do I really ask myself, do we need the same-sex partnership law? We have an increasing number of extramarital communities, people, even when they get married, heterosexuals, they don't even want to have a circus, they don't want to get married, they don't want to be confined to some mold, in some legal provision, they want to live free. But these people, these partners don't want to live free, they want to limit themselves, they want to dig into some marriage molds. I don't understand it myself. I mean, if I were the same guy, I wouldn't want some kind of legal restriction. I'd live some kind of deal, some life that suits me, me and my partner, and I wouldn't let the state tell me how to live. Why am I saying this? Since the law on marriage and family relations - I will talk about the law on family - is not intended to deal with the relationship between husband and wife, but it is written in the first place for the child. That's something else. Here, however, the country is obliged by law to define and protect a child as the creature that needs protection. Excuse me, Madam President! When Spoken in Opposition Pages [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u350	Please, Your Honor, it's not true. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u351	You are an up-to-date warning force. [[...]] I ask that you show at least a tenth of this now, too, when your fellow Members are disturbing the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u352	Please. It's really not right for you to reach out to Mr. Sugar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u353	Thank you. The Marriage and Family Relations Act, I'm going to call it the Family Act. The second article states: "The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children." And in Article 3, "The meaning of marriage is in the founding of a family, a child." And now, of course, the law on marriage, or the law on same-sex partnership, speaks up to article 42 of many things that I have no comment on. If they want to have same-sex partners with a legal provision on common life, we will support the law, why not. If that's what civil society accepts, if that's what they want, it's fine. But what does paragraph 42 say? Article 42 states: "In all other matters, the rights and duties of same-sex partners are the same as the rights and duties of partners in the family or husband and wife, except - and then set two exceptions - except in the relationship between parents and children and adoption." What is stated in the Family Law, the relationship with parents and children with parents, and the question of adoption, which is not applicable to same - sex partners, are all other things. What, though, does the Family Law say about the relationship or adoption, about the rights and obligations of the spouses regarding adoption? Family law doesn't say anything about marriage rights, nothing. What, then, must they fulfill, and what conditions must spouses meet in order to adopt a child? The family law speaks of the child’s right to be properly adopted. The Family Act says that the country that gives the child up for adoption must put him where the environment is appropriate for his development and life. Nothing about the right of spouses, the right of husband and wife to adopt. Because if that were the case, then, of course, after a couple of years of having no children or any way she came to the Ministry, she'd say, "We're asking for a child." No, you have no right. Candidates can, yes, be good, all conditions must be met, and the question of whether or not they will have children. And the Family Act says in Article 139, I will read: "The adopter may not be a person deprived of parental rights, a person who for whom it is reasoned to use adoption to the detriment of the adopter. A person who does not guarantee that he will exercise the parental right for the benefit of the child, a person who is deprived of his or her business ability or who is so mentally affected or sick that he or she can put the adoptive child's health and life in danger." 42. Article 42 of the Law on same-sex partnerships states: "These obligations do not apply to same-sex partners." Who understands that? That's what a same-sex couple doesn't have. Further, the family law speaks of a relationship with children, a relationship with children. And again, he's only talking about parent-to-child responsibilities. He says: "Parents must allow their children conditions for healthy growth, consistent personality development and self-sustainment. Parents are obliged to support their children, to care for their education and so on." Keep up the duties, the duties of the parents. Because the family law is written for a child. And of course, the 42nd article of your marriage of same-sex partners resolves these obligations, does nothing else, solves these obligations. It seems to us that this law on same-sex partners is creating some major confusion in article 42, which we do not know whether it has been deliberately introduced into the law or by accident, I do not know. We also find it pointless to summarize from the Family Law some restrictions, which are indeed in the same-sex partnership law. For example, the law on same-sex partners speaks, summarizes the law on marriage or the law on family in article 3 as follows: "The same-sex partnership is a union of two persons of the same sex." It's good when we talk about same-sex partners, I think, but what about heterosexual partners who don't intend to make a family? Are they peripheral? Are they uninteresting in the government that makes such laws? Why not heterosexual partners? And go ahead. Article 12 says they can't make relatives. Why not? Why does the law prohibit same - sex partners when they are related, and why does the community forbid them? Let me know why. You'll say that because it's in the family law. But it's a family marriage because of genetic issues. Because children among relatives are much more at risk with regard to genetic abnormalities, he forbids it. I don't know why you're here to limit between two relatives. Say, two cousins, why shouldn't we live together, why should we limit it? What I'm trying to say is that this collection of the provisions of the Family Law, the reference to the Family Law, is a fundamental error of this law. Let us make a register of issues that need to be resolved for the same-sex community, and we will solve them in their special law. Do not mix completely two different things. And one more thing. When, as in article 42, he wants and refers to the family law, all other things - other things - we know what they are, I will count them up, namely health insurance by partner, income relief, widow's pensions, priority in obtaining housing for young families, other benefits in accordance with family policy. And now I ask myself two questions. These benefits offered by the State to a community, what are they intended for? If they are not intended for the basic cell of society, that I will not mispronounce, the national reproduction, the family that is intended or created by law as the most appropriate environment for the birth and upbringing and growth of children. These are huge costs - they come from a budget in the area of family policy large funds, and they do, but they have a specific objective. The state has taken it for granted because it knows the importance of family as a base cell for national survival. The same-sex community is not the base cell for national survival, which would also require the country's exceptional attention in terms of co-financing, ensuring living conditions and the like. And secondly, it is entirely wrong to claim that the bill does not have financial consequences. All that I have listed, gentlemen, is a major financial consequence if paragraph 42 is adopted. Let me finish. As long as there is such confusion in this marriage as the pears and apples mix, as long as the family law is invoked, as long as we seek similarity in good things, in the benefits of the family law, and avoid other things until such confusion, we will not support this law. But we will support him if you withdraw paragraph 42. As far as we are concerned, if you think that any further certainty of common life needs to be defined differently, especially with the new article, we will support it. But we will not accept any reference to the family law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u354	Thank you very much. The position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u355	Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We'll support the law in LDS. We believe that it is not appropriate to prevent the desire and rights of individuals and individuals who want to regulate their lives in this way. This is not prevented by the Constitution, nor should it be prevented. If we leave aside the fact that some countries have settled this a few years ago, it is not possible at least to overlook last year's European Union resolutions calling on Member States to ensure that same-sex partnerships are entitled to a marriage and even to adopt children, which is not followed by this law. However, in everyday life, partnerships often face obstacles, same-sex partnerships, of course, and the rest of them, they are already complicated by completely normal things, such as visits to hospitals, complex solutions to, say, renting credits, regulating housing issues, it is impossible to maintain an unsuspecting partner or partner, there is no resolution to the issue of inheritance, and many of the facts that have already been pointed out today. In this respect, of course, the law will address the issue of social security, the rights and duties of survival, the rights of transfer of health and disability insurance, pensions after death, as well as other work and other reliefs. Lasting and stable relationships mean a better quality of life, no doubt. Interestingly, despite stereotypes that same-sex partnerships are short-term, statistics show that the share of divorce in partners of the same sex is lower than in heterosexual relationships. In short, Slovenian society will apply this law to the basic issue of the general declaration of human rights, which says that all people are born free and have the same dignity and equal rights, as well as that we are all equal before the law. Let me point out that, according to a study carried out in 2003, more than 77% of the partners wanted to regulate their same-sex partnerships in a legal way. The latest survey of the Peace Institute, which included about 400 same-sex women from all Slovenia, showed that 61% of respondents would decide to conclude a partnership community. Let me remind you that when, or when, 21 years ago, we adopted an extralegal community in Yugoslavia as a legal community or as one that was equal to the legal community, the solution to many people seemed controversial, both legally and morally. But at the time, the real - life needs were actually turned to law or to legal change. Today, an extramarital relationship is completely normal, everyday, and common. In 1991 it became even a constitutional category. Life changes and standards with it. Perhaps once in the future, this law will also be expected to receive a positive reception in the next term or in the next generations, and this standard may also be possible, the right alignment of the rights of the non-legislative community with the law, under certain conditions, is also realized in the case of same-sex partnerships. If I finish. We regret that this law will not be adopted in this mandate. There were several reasons why we should meet with the law only at this meeting. One is sure that the competent ministry has prepared the law late and has somehow made it worse to deal with the problem. At the same time, it may even have underestimated the difficulty of its coordination, since the law was complementary, cut, cleaned and corrected by the tactics of the then coalition partner, which has justified the adoption of the law by eliminating all such slight references to marriage and family, but by the final compromise with which we may or are pleased, because it ultimately gives the green light also for future discussion. Otherwise, there have been some compromises. Some compromises have gone so far even that, unlike other partners, the cost of registering their decision must be paid on their own, but this can be the norm that will be experienced in further discussions, which I think would also be right. Surely, the only thing we can say is that we want a happy path to the law, not only in Parliament, but also in life for those who want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u356	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u357	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, without undue knowledge, we are aware of the fact that life in Slovenian modern society is becoming more marked by different kinds of diversity than ever before and that we owe each other a different recognition and respect for each other. However, we cannot do this in a way that evaluates some of the values that we can say have contributed to the preservation and spiritual growth of our nation. From this point of view, we also accept the issues that are linked in our society to the regulation of the relationship between two persons of the same sex who live or want to live in a mutual or better-spoken society, relationships, as matters that need to be addressed in a comparable manner to those of countries in the European space. At the Slovenian People's Party, when the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs decided to send the initial proposal of the Partnerships Act to the government and we were a desirable member of the government coalition, we strongly rejected the draft law. For both the introduction to the law and the material provisions, and their explanations, were that the issue of the partner communities was almost entirely equal to the marriage and that practically the bulk of the legal matter had been reworded or referred to by the provisions of the law on marriage and family relations, and that the law had been conceived in a rather uniform manner as a measure of positive discrimination, which would have had an effect against marriage and family relations as a promotion of same-sex partnerships. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have actively and genuinely, not by misdirection, and also patiently involved in amending the basic proposal of the proposed law by the Ministry of State. The marriage as the basis on which the family is built has, and must also have, on the part of the State policy, special attention and evaluation, and therefore the de facto alignment of the same-sex partnership with the marriage relationship would mean a risky act for society, by assessing this relationship too positively and raising it to the level of the generally desirable. We have therefore persisted in the Slovenian People's Party and have also achieved that the current proposal for a law solves issues of the same-sex partnership in a completely separate way and to an extent that is generally socially acceptable. Nothing helps us, as a whole, if we remain in some interest that is simply underconsensual in society, we do not achieve this goal. The fundamental issues addressed by the bill relate to the conclusion of the same-sex partnership, to the procedures relating to this, to mutual rights and also to the obligations arising from the conclusion of this relationship, and, last but not least, to the property and bond relations that arise as a result of the common life of two persons of the same sex. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, with the help of a number of experts, we have largely changed the original proposal of the law and its purpose and objective to focus on the substance of the content from which persons should have a shared orientation of rights and of course of duties, but note that it will be necessary to make the law a little clearer and also taxive reference to the rights, as the legal consequences of the conclusion of the same sexual partnership, in other areas, or to identify what rights the law governing each area gives to men and women who have entered into a marriage or live outside the law and can exercise them on the basis of the right of one of them, there are also those who have entered into an same-sex partner relationship. These issues are defined in the current proposal in Article 42. However, it is quite realistic to expect that, in practice, the institution of the conclusion of the same-sex partnership would be abused by the rights that an individual would be entitled to under such a written article, and therefore the fourth chapter of the bill would need to be finalized. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we are positive about the draft law in the first reading, and we will certainly, as we have been actively involved in its final substantive character, also in the sense that the institution of marriage and family relations does not devalue itself and that until now, more than ever, it retains the special attention and care of the State. For the situation in this area, despite the great resources invested by the State budget in family policy, is not envious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u358	Thank you very much. And these were the views of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I invite Peter Levich to the floor. No, no, no. Does Igor Stemberger want it? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u359	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to say that it has been a good time for this law to be passed by similar laws in a number of European countries, including Croatia, which is considered a more conservative country. Therefore, I find it hard to understand that I am not saying that there was so much waiting for this law. On the other hand, I understand the Government that it was not in her interest to rush this law because the law is tantamount to a narrow, small population of the same sex. The electoral base on which this marriage is tanning is not large enough to be taken care of. At the end of the term, however, we will throw them small pieces to fulfill what we have been promising them for a long time. Of course, bearing in mind that we will not be able to get the entire procedures of this law under the roof during our term of office. Such misbehavior is a kind judgmental thing to say. It's pointless to close our eyes before we have homosexual couples. This is one of the sexual orientations, and I believe that our society and the state must also recognise this dimension of human diversity. It has already turned out that partnership in society is a useful institution, as it is within such a relationship that the needs that are passed on to society as a whole are met. The adoption of this law would also prevent sexual violence, both physically and verbally, through awareness-raising. The laws that govern our society could be divided into natural and artificial ones. Interference in natural law does not seem to be in place, but artificial lawfulness is clearly one of those who has been invented by man or society and marriage. The marriage was invented by man as a result of the couples of the opposite sex living together. Today we are witnessing that we also have same - sex couples, and it would also make sense to admit such money on paper. The bill is a step forward in the recognition of same-sex partnerships and in the improvement of the quality of life of these people. I think that the proposal is a good enough compromise between, on the one hand, the liberal and, on the other hand, the conservative view, because, despite allowing for same-sex marriages, it does not allow adoption of children to these couples. For me, therefore, this is an acceptable compromise solution and I will support the law. With all this circus going on about the same-sex partnership law, there's only one question for me and only one question: Who's going to throw a trigger at the wedding?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u361	I'll be very brief. I'll support the marriage. Last but not least because we will take one step forward and we will prepare a good basis for the next legislation to bring it to an end, perhaps even improve. I would also advocate the adoption of children myself. And that's for a simple reason, because in our country, which is so beautiful when we get to the field of human rights, equality before the law, it breaks down. There are always reasons for certain political options that this equality, however, would not be equal. Or when it comes to different nationalities, different sexual orientations or something. We always find reasons why, of course, certain categories of people, citizens and citizens, we deny the enjoyment of our rights, those enjoyed by everyone else. I say it's kind of understandable until the moment it no longer interferes with your rights. If someone interferes with my rights, it is natural that I defend myself to find arguments to challenge others equally, even though that is not right. But in this case, no one is denying the rights of others. It is that one particular group of people recognizes the same rights that we all have, and at that point we do not interfere with the rights of anyone else. It is understandable, however, that there are so many contradictions between those colleagues and colleagues that, on other occasions, of course, they advocate a religion in a public school. This segment is very visible. When it comes to defending certain Christian values, of course it is difficult to swallow up, swallowing up the exercise of the same rights to marriage and marriage among different people, but for those who, of course, the Gospels, the New Testament, of course, identifies them as inferior, as different, even punishing them. So it's not to be surprised when there are these differences between us. I hope that with our support too, and I hope that the majority of this law, including the public, will start to see something differently and allow the next mandate to do what we have failed. I would only tell my colleague Stemberger once again that we came to the end of the term precisely because there was a search for consensus within the government coalition for a long, long-lasting, tormented time, otherwise we could, of course, if we knew that this consensus would not be, we could have done it sooner and the law could have been under the roof. I'm honored, and I have the honor of making marriages sometimes. When and if the opportunity is, of course, to conclude the partnership community in the next term, I will be happy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u363	Thank you very much. My forerunner, Mr Aurelio Juri, has twice stressed that it is a matter of everyone having the same rights before the law. I can't read more than article 14 of the Constitution. The last sentence of Article 14 says: “All are equal before the law. I think I've said everything with that. The Constitution and its 14th Article give equal rights to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u364	My word is Irmo Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u365	Your Honor! I don't know if you ever get caught up in this, but I often wonder if we actually realize what power there is inside us when we sit in this room, what power there is in our voices. Usually I am not afraid of this power when it is attentive and gentle in its efforts to all its social groups when we are messengers of a sense of desire in Slovenian society of everyone and everyone. I personally believe and believe that only such citizens and citizens, residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia can be expected to make such a social contribution, which will represent the social progress we all so tirelessly want. But I'm afraid of the power of these voices when we tell the same sex partners today that they can live in our society, but they're not the same, they're not the same. We must admit that if we were in their skin, such labels would cripple and affect every human being; we are human beings, and we are all welcome in society. Even so, we rightly expect equal inclusion if, by means of our being and living, we do nothing to anyone but harm even less. And the power of certain voices today in this Chamber has said just that - you are not the same. We are therefore taking on a legal relationship, threatening families, and we all know that it is essential to preserve such and different communities more than if we recognize other communities that, under certain established rules, life together can play by the rules they themselves expect, and society is obliged to recognise that they can therefore feel included and the same. And the worst thing that was heard today was 'the Slovenian society has not yet accepted you, and so be it.' I'm very afraid of that kind of voice. Many of them have been heard about various social groups in the Slovenian space lately, and I hope that in the future, there will be electoral messages from the electoral programmes, which will all include the inclusion of all social groups, equality, tolerance, dialogue, that this will really become what will also be written in the actions. I think there were too many speakers of words today who don't say in words what is likely to be written down in the fall. I believe that this law should have been passed long ago. But there was and I think that there will also exist in the future a real fear of referendum initiatives, which, like how many times we have tried to involve, equality, tolerance, dialogue in actions in Slovenia, will bring us this contribution in Slovenian society, with very severe demagogism. So I hope that there will be as many voices as possible to say the opposite.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I'm giving the word to Janez Sponik. Don't you? The word gets from a colleague of Silva Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u367	Thank you so much for saying that. In opening, let me say that I will gladly support the marriage, the same-sex partnership law, with joy. And I must admit that it was just as difficult for me as it was for a lot of people to think about what I would say today, as an argument, why I would normally support this law. I admit that all the efforts towards these ten years of new democracy of all societies and non-governmental organisations to align their opportunities have been accompanied with joy and well, with interest. I also took an interest in monitoring the developments in the previous mandate of the Croatian Government and Parliament when they discussed this law. And when I told my fellow Members that the Croats are already discussing this law and that there are not as many rejections and dilemmas as there are in our country and it is strange for us to say that they are so much more conservative a country that they do not have such consequences and such contradictions. For me, marriage is a logical consequence of life and I think it is actually a logical consequence of people's demands to actually equalize themselves and live a normal life with others. What does normal life mean? Normal life actually means a normal life when you raise a loan, a normal life when you rent apartments, when you equip apartments, a normal life when you inherit, when you register property, and so on. Why? Because even those of us who are somehow equal in law, we see how often in everyday life we have to gain different consents, get powers from lawyers. It actually makes life much more difficult than the rest. And why should one quasi difference, which is purely normal and purely acceptable, be hindered in one way or another and not allow the legal basis to realize their lives normally, without any obstacles. In his debate, Mr Tsukjat raised precisely the 42nd article, which actually allows them the scope of rights in one way. It gives them a normal life and an equalization. In the system, when we're used to actually plus minus, black and white things and when it's hard to see the color and nuances of different watercolors and all that, it's hard to understand that they're purely normal people who have their needs, everyday like all of us. And why don't you stop them from doing that on a marriage basis? The law has been through a lot of debate. I looked at COBISS about how many articles were published on this subject, amazing. I wish we could see how much. And how many professional discussions there are on the subject of same-sex partnerships. What is so special, and why has this partnership been so condemned in history? Why did we stress this difference in one way so much, and to whom did this difference suit? To those who wanted to point out in every way how they as normal are very good, very respectable, very respected members of society. She fell into the hands of Edgar Hoover's book days ago. You all know what he was up to and he was the director of the FBI for almost 52 years. He's one of the biggest persecutors of homosexuals and others. But it's good to know that he was a homosexual himself. And why is it one way to mark things differently? No reason at all. Maybe it's because there's an eternal fear that you're not the same as you're supposed to be. Of course, this fear is present. And if we are in a democratic society and if we are also building this democracy with one way of building it up, it is worth living this democracy without fear. And why not allow all those who live a normal life without fear and without obstacles. I am, of course, of course, and deeply believe that the media, which has actually helped in these 10 years, that these same-sex partnerships have been quite debated and that it has come to a great deal and seen that this is true love and, last but not least, one attachment between the two is same-sex, but whether it is not better to love, to have one positive feeling than to hate and not to love. I'm for love, and that's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u368	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Gasparini to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I have to say that I'm going to support this marriage. Secondly, I'd like to point out two things I've been listening to today. First on some philosophy that a child is at the forefront of family politics. That's true, I have to admit, but when it was necessary to accept, I don't know, that artificial fertilization, etc., we were against it. And so Slovenia is deprived of 300 children. And then we want to philosopher that we are smarter than all of Europe, all those countries that have been listed here that have already done so. But you say, if you're not going to be 42. Or if I don't know what this article is, if you don't remove it from the marriage, we won't support the marriage. Instead of telling the truth, tell me, we're against it, so we're even. That's one thing. You know who it's referring to. Mr Barovic, it is true that the constitution states that we are all the same, but also the use of Slovenian and Slovenian [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And today we also discussed the use of Slovenian, not to be fooled. [[...]] And you said, we're against this law, and that's okay, that's what you had to say now and then it would be okay. Don't say that, read it, because we're all the same because we need a marriage. We need a marriage, of course we need to see that we have problems. Well, that's not a critique. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] As a matter of fact, I will uphold the law, and I don't mind paragraph 42, and I don't know what article inside that bothers some.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u371	Congratulations, colleague. Congratulations. I mentioned it three times on purpose. You have to let me because it's a replica. I advocated in the law on self-sufficient deletions that a constitutional article should have a law. That's right. The only gentleman I respect mentioned this, and now compare. However, you argued, headed by the Minister of the Interior, that there was no need for law because the constitutional provision and constitutional provision for deleted were sufficient. But there has to be a law. But now you've got yourself into your own trap. Ladies and gentlemen, your sincere congratulations, because you are the only one who understood what I was going to say, are sincere congratulations. There is a need for law, but there was no need for law to be deleted, a sufficient constitutional decision and a constitutional provision. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have shown your mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u372	Thank you very much. You don't have to be upset. Please, for peace in the hall. The designation "self-named deleted" is also an insult because it is a category by which the Constitutional Court names the category of people. I'm asking so nicely for an accurate expression. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Mrzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Madam President. Representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear people! Let it not be necessary for me to read once again - the Constitution in article 14, equality before the law, ensuring equality of human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, material state, birth, education, social situation or any other personal situation, including the sexual orientation of an individual or an individual. The basic objective of the proposed law is to regulate the legal situation of same-sex marriages. How did we behave and behave today, as people and citizens, with such an honorable constitution, or else? In advance, I'm afraid we're going to dress up in the old world's sense of thinking, feeling and intolerance. How does the phrase "I created it in my image and likeness" sound more than once? Unequal treatment of the same sex-oriented continues to culminate too often in bullying. Tonight, too. I'm also afraid tonight we're witnessing exclusion and intolerance. Will we be narrow-hearted and humanly limited? Once and for all it will be necessary to realize that humans, not men or women, are not only worth as much as we are rated as a sex subject or object. Unfortunately, I have to point my finger at the stronger sex that is in this assembly of honors in the majority and that often excessively equates its value with a capacity that certainly does not have an equation with more demanding human standards. Such thinking has no place in this century and not in Europe. That's it. I ask you, do same-sex people threaten, do they just want to live happily in line with their birth, or, as my colleague, Mrs. Silva, has said, do they just want love? How many examples of history do we know about the same - sex people who did amazing work? Well, let's just say Shakespeare in his famous 16th sonnet, which speaks of truth and justice and ends up like, "I'm tired of everything, I'd like to sleep if it wasn't for you, my dear, to be alone." And the Mayor also in a similar sonnet says, "As long as justice is trampled upon the ground, the truth without shame shall be ashamed, until the lie, the treachery of honours, until the truth shall love sin," etc., says, "and from my life is not worse than death." And Preshern says, "I've seen only this number between us, what the mind blinds with frauds, lies." I'm afraid we only tolerate same-sex partners when they're hiding. I'm afraid we also tolerate covert, catastrophic white goods trade and tolerate disguised paedophilia and tolerate horrifying domestic violence. I think it's time to open the world to honesty and honesty and freedom. The world will certainly be happier and that's why we're all going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u375	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! So I personally realize that in our society there is a certain percentage of people who are slightly less sexually oriented than the majority. That's a fact. I accept this fact and, of course, take it into account. But I'm not impatient with them. I certainly respect them as persons, of course, as long as they also respect some of the average standards, regardless of sexual orientation, as all society respects. I am not intolerant of them, nor impatient, because I may have a different opinion about solving this problem. I'm talking about solving this problem not about people. I am also aware that their condition, their wishes must be resolved. The problem is how to come to this solution, and such problems also arise in other areas in this Parliament. It really bothers me that you, these people, or I don't know what to call them, that someone won't tell me anything wrong, these people, the tools of one political option. And that's always the problem that arises or wants to be solved, in connotations, before the elections. And this is not the first time we've had this situation. And today we are once again in a situation where we are dealing with the matter in the first reading at the last regular meeting of the National Assembly, at first reading, when we know precisely that we will not be able to resolve the matter properly. It also bothers me - excuse the expression, take it in a positive sense - a circus to prepare or to be included in a meeting of the National Assembly of this Law. It really bothers me that if we have a particular group of people who are minority, they want to show it in a special way. I think they're doing themselves harm. That's why I said it bothers me if the tools are in the hands of one particular policy option. I don't think that's good. I don't think it's the right solution or the right way to solve this problem, all kinds of weird demonstrations. Demonstrations are allowed, it's nothing special. However, if this is used in a special strange way, it bothers me personally. It also bothers me if we want to solve this problem all at once. I am sure that in the countries you like to remember so much, they have not come up with these solutions in one step. But they came in gradually. So it really bothers me that we put this in a meeting at night, and I think it belongs to a very normal session at normal hours to solve this problem. I am not sure if at the previous session, which was the last one, we removed the points that were in the first reading, such as more consistent regional development, because we knew that we would not be able to reach the end, but we put that in the last session, and we put that in the night part. That bothers me, and that's why I said I don't like it, that one political option is taking advantage of these people. I would hope to claim that someone is taking severe advantage of the hardships of these people and that you may be trying to bring them in thirsty. And then not to say all the things you said about them before, and I know they didn't. To promise them that something will happen when it does not work, when this is now practically the end of the matter in this mandate. What happens in the second term is another matter. And we can't all save together what we should save and what we want to save, both of us. We won't be able to. I think that we could and should find the will and desire to solve this problem and it would be right, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, to listen to our arguments and together find progressive solutions. It is not good to try to jump to the tenth floor, but if we can elegantly come from the first to the second and the third and probably be longer today. When we first opened this problem, you wanted to solve everything, including what you might have deleted from this law. If we went gradually then, we would not have had this problem solved at the last meeting today. And that's what bothers me. But I know this problem will have to be solved, but don't jump to the tenth floor. Apparently, you're using these people and preparing such a law to force you just to say that you did something for them, but you're really nothing because you painted them. I will not support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u377	Thank you very much. It was not a circus, the demonstration of pride took place several times in Ljubljana. It is also a manifestation of certain trends, desires and ultimately a lot of sensitive feelings, when the public clearly expresses their desire and tries to achieve certain solutions with these kind of receptions. We could have adopted this law, indeed, if, if, if, today, more had been said, there might have been a requirement for a first reading. But we haven't talked about this today, because even after all, the requirement for a general debate is a legitimate requirement for Members and Members, although there is only one thing for you now. The proposal for a partnership law has a very careful title. In fact, it avoids a delicate relationship, which has been highlighted today, and links to a law that has any connotation with family relations. In this sense, too, the diction speaks at a symbolic level, but, nevertheless, perhaps, if I speak in the first person, I would like the law to be seen in that item that I have warned about before. In view of the possibility that registrations may also take place in the event of a longer-term joint stay, where heterosexual couples, as is the case. However, I no doubt believe that those who will meet with this draft or any other in the future will have to eliminate discrimination which suggests that the registration of such communities must have a different payment or be paid in contrast to those registrations of heterosexual communities which are not. I must say, the discussions on this subject are legitimate. There have been more than 120 hours in the French Parliament, but there have been many years in our space. In 1989, for example, the ZSMS Congress created a tendency and desire, that is to say, in those times when we at the same time opened the issue of the Republic of Slovenia and its independent tendencies, requirements for non-discriminatory approaches were put in place within the framework of human rights. Why am I saying this? Because the requirements for equal treatment are all part of and following a non-discriminatory approach, they are part of the common rights that must always be new articulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u379	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, this law is full of molarisation, full of misbehaviour and at least a few of the speeches I have heard after the presentations I have been sent. But when I return, when one of the Members said, as he thought, as in his political option of thinking, such impatience was among these moralitys, and the President did not have the need to remind those who have, now, moralized with you. Look what I'm gonna say. Where is the truthfulness of the matter of this law to be dealt with now at this hour of the night, when, I will say, normal people, spoken of by a colleague of Silva, who is normal and who is not normal, are already carrying out their birites according to this hour. The choice of a point on this timing, which we did not influence as a Human Party, but exclusively a coalition, is offensive. And there's no authenticity here. And it's unnecessary to fake moralization. There is no need for ideological labels on the issue of our fellow citizens and citizens who are otherwise sexually oriented than we may be heterogeneous. There is no need for ideological labelling. And you weren't able to beat some of the moralists in yourself. And intolerance! You know, anyone can say what he thinks, and it's not like he's not tolerant. All I know is that there were some of us genuine people, genuine Members, who we took responsibility for dealing with these issues in our society, not by stalling. You know, we've made our proposals in time enough, made our corrections. And ask yourself, when was the last proposal we made, and what is the time today when we are dealing with it? Let us be a little more honest about the purpose of this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u381	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At the beginning of my term of office, I went to the European Parliament, instead of President Lavrinc, to report on Slovenia's progress in taking over the rule of law in the field of justice. And while there was a need to talk about the Schengen border on refugees, the question that was intended for representatives of all then candidate countries to join the European Union was one, and that is how we have a legally regulated position of same-sex partners. This was, I would say, the first direct encounter with the European Union's views on regulating this situation. Unfortunately, from now on, I cannot overcome the feeling that there is never a right time in our country to regulate such things, whether it be hours, days, summers or elections. I would like to remind you that, at the end of the full day, we have discussed the law on fertilisation with biomedical aid, which some believe has been linked to same-sex tendencies, and we know how this issue has been resolved. However, if someone is already forcing me to recall certain events or statements in coalition coordination, then I would like to recall in particular the constant emphasis on the distinction between human rights and fundamental freedoms. In fact, what do some see as a problem with the adoption of this law? I understand that there are various fears, but it seems completely unacceptable to me that they would be willing to live with fellow citizens and fellow citizens if they were equally targeted, only if they were not disclosed and publicly recognised, so that some of the provisions proposed by this law could also exercise legitimate rights, as has already been said, some social, some health rights and would not go into illustrations of these cases. That's exactly what I'm thinking. There is a phenomenon, but there is no need to show it, of course, and there is no need to regulate it legally. They cannot convince me that they are committed to the adoption of such a law and that they feel that the closure of this legal void, which exists, is essential because everything has been done to prevent this from happening. And let me warn you of one more thing that I find significant. The report on the survey on discrimination based on sexual orientation is very interesting in some elements. For example, the information that there is a very high percentage of highly educated among same-sex students is already one of these, and I comment. It's about those who hope and can admit it. But I think there's some other information that's significant to me. When they talk about the discrimination they have received, either at work or elsewhere, the percentage is not as high as that percentage high, almost half stops when it comes to sexual violence. And why does this seem so typical to me? To hit a man after what he's different from me or someone else. But here, I'm sorry, there's no way to talk about that there's no intolerance between us to other people. The accounts of youths also show that they have received such unequal treatment. But if we went to the verbal arsenal, then we would have had the opportunity to prove something more. And now to Article 42 at issue. What is there in it that it would not have been, if something has not yet been made clear enough, to be corrected by the second reading amendment? He's just a Trojan horse to make war on this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u382	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u383	Thank you very much. It's about understanding, it's about how we look at things. Today, through the debate, it was quite a catch. Of course, benevolence on all sides. But on the one hand, there's even a choice of words that don't offend anyone, like Yasha Zląbs said, as if it were patients. You know, there's a problem. The problem is mentality. The problem is that we, as far as heterosexuals are concerned, have arranged everything, the marriage, the extramarital relationship, and even in this Yugoslavia, we were among the first to arrange it for extramarital relations. For homosexuals, of course, we have nothing arranged. We do have what Comrade Barovic says is written in the constitution, but it generally says that for everyone. That is why this law must be made to be truly the same as in the Constitution. Whether he chooses a homosexual partner or a heterosexual partner. Here is the problem that we do not take it as something that is in itself reasonable, normal, but forgive the expression, sometimes a person feels like we are looking for asylum for animals and making any provisions in this regard. And here's the problem. This is what needs to be overcome in our heads. That one area is disorderly, one of the many areas of our lives is disorderly, and it needs to be arranged so that people can live normally so that they can function normally. And this law belongs in this category. All the other instigations, from the political to the electoral, are just a diversion, because someone doesn't want it to be arranged that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u384	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u385	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. My basic point is that, not only in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and its Article 14, but also in accordance with the Treaty on European Constitution, which explicitly speaks of equality, irrespective of sexual orientation, it is necessary to recognise that different sexual orientation is a human right so that all the rights arising from this should be equal between citizens. With this law, the proposal does not regulate anything that could harm anyone else. And I don't understand why the issue of this law is even problematic. I don't understand. Why is it obvious that we accept it at the wrong time after an hour, after a day, after an election time? Why? Why is it obvious that someone is disturbed by the coalition’s role as an advocate of this marriage or government in support of the coalition? Why does it bother someone and not even hope to tell them that it's the same-sex people, but says it's about some people? It's even hard for him to tell who it is and who it's about. Why is it said that we recognize the facts, but the law has solutions that have a normal effect on certain relationships between them? Normally, however, it is probably too much if we start to argue on our own that there is such a focus on society and that all modern civilization recognises it as one of the equal opportunities that must be accepted as a fact. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore understand that we are trying to find reasons and excuses, both of us, why this marriage is not at the right time, why there is no good content, what is wrong with it. I also understand why you are trying to challenge the bill in a way that actually accuses us of why we proposed it. You're saying it would be much better for this marriage to be adopted by consensus. You know well that for a while there was a lot of effort at least in the framework of the government coalition in order to reach a consensus and at some point it was no longer possible. You know, today you're saying that we've been working too long, why we haven't given it three months or six months before, then the consensus would be even less. You warn the same-sex people that they should not sit on just some of the parties who advocate these solutions. Perhaps it would be better if they really didn’t need to sit down and support the law, at least in the first reading, and later we are trying to find better solutions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u386	Thank you very much. I'll take the word of my fellow villain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u387	Thank you for your word. About 5% of the population is homosexual. They used to kill people like that, break their bones and hang them, and apparently this mentality is still in the air somewhere. I find it most funny, but it is that these people are supposed to be otherwise oriented, a tool of some kind of political option. It is certain that people will turn to the political option that gives them the opportunity to live normally in a normal country. Just remember how many great art people made from Shakespeare to Michelangelo. If they were as narrow - hearted as some think that these people are sick, that they are different people who should be taken to a madhouse or just to a pile. I have to say that in these years, when we've tried a lot of nonsense, it turns out that stupidity is forever, and I'm just about done. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u388	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Stano Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u389	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good evening to all, as long as there is left. My debate on the proposal for a law on same-sex partnerships would not be sincere if I did not say at the outset that I belonged to that part of the society that accepts as a natural partnership the union of women and men. However, I am aware that there are other kinds of connections. Very early, especially when working in school, I also realized that the important principles of a democratic society include the right to a different nature, which recognises that society is not only a society of the majority but also a society of the minority. It's hard, I know, to get rid of certain prejudices and change the majority-to-minor relationship, but it shows exactly how open an individual society is. I hope that it is in the light of human rights that one country is small or large. I don't mean her physical size here. By adopting the law before us, we will abolish existing discriminatory legislation and legally regulate the situation of same-sex couples. As citizens and citizens of Slovenia, same-sex couples will have social security, i.e. social, health and pension insurance, regulated property relations, inheritance, widow's pension, and the right and duty of mutual life. Most European countries are aware of this type of legal regime of same-sex communities, and even in Slovenia there are no longer any excuses for delaying the adoption of legislation that will provide the same-sex partners with living conditions within which they, like all other citizens and citizens, can realize their interests, needs and belongings. It is indeed true that such living communities exist and therefore there is no reason for us to close our eyes in the field of legislation related to them. So the law before us and the government has been preparing it since 1997 is a necessary and appropriate basis for further consideration. I am only sorry that due to the long coordinations now, just before the elections, we will not be able to lead to a third reading and reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u390	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Jakic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u391	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, let me start by saying that, despite the expiry of the mandate, there is a 154th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the end of the mandate, however, is the end of legislative procedures and procedures for the adoption of other acts, other than those initiated on the proposal of 5,000 voters, the government and so on. I hope that in the next term, this government, or government, will be patient with same-sex partners and partnerships and will continue with the procedures. If not, I call in advance on all those who are in favour of this law and will be re-elected, or we will be re-elected to take over this law and continue to guide it through the process. See, the fundamental reason for the legalisation of same-sex partnerships is to ensure equality before the law and, of course, respect for human rights. I don't know if it's truth or honesty, but in any case, I think, at least to myself, that I'm honest, because otherwise I wouldn't lead the campaign "All Different and All Equal". It pains me, therefore, that all those who have sworn to this campaign have not seen within this campaign these differences, which is called homosexuality, and there is nothing wrong with it. Slovenia is just a particular feature where there is a resistance to diversity. Resistance to homosexuals, to nationals and citizens of Slovenia who are not Slovenian nationals, to disabled persons, to Roma, to single women, etc. And, of course, it's not fair not to say publicly and clearly what hurts us. That's why I don't mind anyone giving their own opinion. But it pains me that those who talk most about tradition and morality, sometimes read about them, and those who are guardians of only heterosexual partnerships and family protection, for example, are now exposed in public. I mean, of course, the scandal in Austria. However, I think that this law must be adopted from a simple point of view, because it is a matter of regulating the legal situation of the living community of two persons of the same sex, determining the scope of their mutual rights and obligations, and of course regulating their mutual relations and establishing a procedure in this regard. And we are really pinning for the civil standards that have been adopted. Around us, interestingly, the neighbouring Croatia, for example, which we all consider very conservative, has a similar law and, of course, a large number of other countries. I am pleased that the state and the government and this coalition have listened to the demands of NGOs that have been seeking to regulate such legislation for many years. That is why it is right that today, despite the late hours, we have this on our agenda. Some have tried their best not to be on the agenda at all. The same-sex partnership, as stated in the law, is based on a free decision to enter into an same-sex partnership on mutual emotional ties, mutual respect, understanding, trust and mutual assistance. And it is not right and it is not fair for people who want to do so to be denied by some, and of course they do not want to please them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Do government representatives want a word? Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u393	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment on something, at least on those articles, which are, in fact, an argument and an argument for reasons, to support the law. The New Slovenia Group misinterprets Article 53 of the Constitution, which clearly states that marriage is based on equality of spouses. Don't talk about husband and wife. This is the subject of the law on marriage and family relations. And in my introduction, I specifically stressed that it narrows the concept of husband and wife, so it is not possible to exercise rights under the law on marriage for same-sex partners. I also think that the debate on what is the most substantively speaking and which concerns Article 42 of the Law is, in fact, what Mrs Potter has already said is that this law is not without Article 42. This is the provision of rights to the level when you have the right to a ceremony and also to divorce, but you have no social, health and all other rights, which, after all, are what gives equality before the law after the Constitution. If Mr Barovic says that, under article 14 of the Constitution, everyone is equal before the law, how can these rights that I have just spoken about not be realized? Therefore, they need to be regulated by a special law. And the talk was that partners could live their lives and that no one interfered with their rights. However, some of the discussions were in the direction that when we settle this issue, it interferes with the marriage relationship, not to say yet, to the family, which is entirely groundless. The law itself refers to marriage and family relations and there are no children. Partners in these relationships, men and women, have every right. It is said that we regulate that if partners live in a heterosexual community, they have the same rights as partners in homosexual communities. Mr Tsukati, I'm sorry, your colleagues have previously cited intolerance, and I have also received it in the introduction if you allow me to conclude my discussion. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] Mr Tsukati also commented on section 42 of this Act in the part where it exempts rights, saying: "that the existence of an same-sex partnership concluded under this Act gives partners of this relationship in other areas of social relations, except in the field of family relations in work concerning the relationship between parents and children and adoption, equal rights and obligations". The comment he made in this regard was incorrect. Adoption is not a legal consequence of the marriage. If this law regulates the rights and obligations of partners in the partnership and the law on marriage and family relations is, after all, the whole, that is to say, that this area should necessarily be exempted from the question that has been raised all the time during coalition coordination, whether adoption is possible or not. Mr Cukjat also spoke about the financial consequences. Of course, there are financial consequences. However, the financial implications are the same as for all other communities. And just like all members of other communities, members of the partner community respond as citizens to their civic duty when paying taxes and other obligations. And these rights stem from these rights, from their obligations that they fulfil as citizens. And here they want to be equal citizens, completely justified of course. There was much discussion about why only during this period? Why do you say this moment? I'd just say something. It's always too late to exercise human rights. Unfortunately, in such cases, and in this particular Slovenia, it was already a few times too early when the referendum majority was sought, that it could be shown to the minority that it was a minority and that human rights were not respected in Slovenia. That is why the government and the coalition have been constantly working towards such a consensus in this society, in political parties, which, of course, would not constitute an incentive for a new referendum issue. And that was the only reason. Of course, it is necessary to create a political climate in which there is a majority in each party and it was also necessary to create it, in a coalition of majority and hope, even in this Slovenian space, regardless of the fact that we have Article 14 of the Constitution. If we could actually implement it directly, of course, we would not have to prepare this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Also a replica of Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, I sincerely congratulate you, but honestly. I would very much like you to be a secretary of state, too, to be honest, I have this right in the Ministry of the Interior. What you have said is that Article 14 does not exercise the rights of the Constitution and that it needs a legal basis, we have absolutely argued in the field of the Ministry of the Interior - do not interrupt me, Madam Vice-President - in the law on deleted ones. And she said to the government that you're an integral member that you don't have to. I wish you were there. And secondly, look, we could sharpen things and on the basis of your words I'm assessing, maybe wrongly, we could require a constitutional assessment of Article 14. We won't. Everyone has the right to an opinion, each one has his own conscience. No one opposes the way people live. What you said is most important. The legal basis for each constitutional article. And I will be delighted to hear the same terminology from the left and in front of me when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u396	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. As has been said many times today, 10 minutes after the end point, I think 23.30 is the time when we could go to the vote on today's decisions. We're voting at 11:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u397	Dear Members, honourable Members! We continue to work first with the 9th item of the agenda - the second is on the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. I ask all Members and Members to come to the Chamber because we will vote on the amendments. We will first vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. Please, if you can check the voting devices first. Is everything okay? We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 14 votes against 32. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the Government's amendment to Article 14, with the remark that if adopted, the next amendment of the New Slovenia Group becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 41 votes against 16. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the amendment was adopted, so the amendment under 2 became irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment of the same motions to Article 20. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 21, with a footnote, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the Government to Article 39a becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and therefore the amendment of the Government to Article 39a becomes irrelevant. We are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 33, with a note, if adopted, that amendment under Article 2 and 3 of which the drafters to the United Nations and New Slovenia Group are irrelevant. We therefore vote on the Government's amendment to Article 33. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u398	Excuse me. I didn't hear article 22 was irrelevant. I'm sorry. Is he immaterial or are we letting him go? Article 22?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u399	Just a moment, Mr. Barovich. The script clearly shows a lack of transparency and this amendment is not indicated. Thank you so much for the heads-up. That is why there are many of us in this hall, and we can correct such prejudices. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 22. Thank you very much again, Mr Barovic. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 16 votes against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now voting on the government's amendment to Article 33. Vote explanation, Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u400	I will support the Government's amendment to delete this Article, because otherwise inspection measures could lead to non-compliance with European Union legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u401	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mrs. Potrat, then Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u402	Thank you. I will support the second amendment, which is an amendment by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, which is the result of the review and advice of the legislative and legal service which has proposed such an amendment in accordance with the amended proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u404	Thank you for your word. I will also support the second amendment, because if we support the first amendment, then Article 17 is inconsistent with the law and the very opinion of the legal service is the one they sent to the committee, and we have sent it to the United Letter in order to bring the law into line. They have tabled this second amendment in order to bring the law into line with the sanctions that follow. But it does speak of sales products.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u405	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the Government's amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Mr. Battelli's explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u406	Once again, we have a strange footnote under number 3, because it actually says that if an amendment under number 3 is adopted, it is ruled out by itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u407	The remarks, Mr Battelli, were as follows. If the amendment of the government were adopted, the amendments of the parliamentary groups under 2 and 3 would become irrelevant. Since no government amendment has been adopted, we are going to make a decision on amendment number two. If this is accepted, the amendment under 3 becomes irrelevant. It's written a little differently. In this it says that an amendment under 2 is excluded with an amendment under 1 and 3. It's a little different saying what I was trying to explain myself. We therefore vote on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 62 of us present. 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's why the amendment under 3 becomes irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Members to Article 34. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 51 votes against 5. (For the vote was 51.)(against 5.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 36. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 17 votes against 37. [[For vote 17.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The amendment to Article 39a is irrelevant. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u408	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since less than one-tenth of the articles have been adopted by law, I propose that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138, the third consideration of the law be carried out at that meeting and that the date be set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-12-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u409	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 15.7. after the last item has been completed. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on referendum and on human initiative, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. The law is not inconsistent. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of Members present are required to adopt the law. Just to remind you, these are the provisions that are consistent with the decision of the Constitutional Court. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on pay taxes, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. There were no amendments under the shorter procedure, so it is not possible to submit them and we are moving on to a decision on the law. I didn't get a notice of non-compliance. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on the termination of the speciality law on the special tax on balance sheet sums of banks and savings banks - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. There were no amendments under the shorter procedure, and they cannot be tabled now. We're moving on to a decision on the law. There's no discrepancy. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th paragraph of the agenda, with the first reading of the proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on same-sex partnership, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 44 votes against 11. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm sorry I missed you. I am adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all very much. Good night.
