ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members of Parliament: Roberto Battelli, Dr Michael Brejc, Franz Kangler, Ivan Kebrič, Alojz Peterle and Mag. Majda Spending for the beginning of the session. The Prime Minister of Mags is invited to the meeting. Mr Anton Rop, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, candidate for Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, candidate for Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on agenda item 3. I welcome all those present to today's session. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any motions for withdrawal or extension, so we will go on to set the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received the invitation, and we will vote on it. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the agenda. I interrupt the vote, the voting device with Mr. Tank. Is he all right now? I repeat the vote. Please pay attention, see if everyone's got a voting device. We're voting on the agenda. There are 65 of us present, 44 for the agenda, 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. That's how we pass NA 1. It's the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Presidential Opinion on the Resolution of Dr. Dimitri Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We'll wait for the Prime Minister to come among us. He's giving an introductory explanation. I welcome in our midst the Prime Minister of Mags. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Anton Ropa proposed to the National Assembly on 24.6.2004 that Dr Dimitrij Rupla be dismissed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me a few words for an introduction to a discussion that will undoubtedly follow. In opening, let me point out that, at the time of the convening of this national assembly and the mandate of today's government, Slovenia has undoubtedly taken important steps forward in virtually all areas. At this time, we have managed to ensure balanced economic development and progress in this mandate. Economic growth has continued to be 2- to 3-fold higher than the average in the European Union. We have an enviable fiscal balance, which is often taken as an example to many other new members of the European Union. In 2003, we have for the first time a public debt that has fallen in relative proportion to gross domestic product; we have interest costs that have fallen in 2003. For the first time, within the state budget and public finances, resources for development expenditure have been released. I am just coming from the world for science and technological development, where we have found that in 2004 R & D funds are increasing by more than 20% as a basis for effective economic development and progress. We have the lowest interest so far, and we have the lowest inflation so far. We also have a credit rating, which is one of the better among the new members of the European Union. On this occasion, it is fair to say that we entered ERM 2 a few days ago. We started to take over the euro in Slovenia, based on negotiations with the European Central Bank and the European Union. The European Union and the Central Bank have recognised Slovenia as one of the countries most willing to adopt European Union standards. This year we have everything and a lot of good opportunities to move forward. We have relatively favourable economic growth, high levels of investment and sufficient reasons for optimism. What is undoubtedly very important to stress in this regard - and it is probably right to take a picture of the situation forward and backward on such occasions - is that we have managed to maintain a relatively high level of social security and also sensitivity in Slovenia, and the social parameters are undoubtedly important for such an assessment. It is of course important that we maintain a good, constructive dialogue with the social partners in Slovenia; not all European countries, the Member States of the European Union, have a social agreement, nor do they have an agreement on wage policy. We have managed to do all of this over the years, and we currently have an agreement on both private sector wage policy and public sector policy. These are two good bases for further development and for the management of a stable economic and social policy. Undoubtedly, I could talk a lot about other areas, a number of areas where steps have been taken further, but there will be plenty of opportunities for us to say something about this. It is therefore right to say that, during this period, we have undoubtedly succeeded in enforcing Slovenia also in terms of its reputation both in the world and in Europe in particular. We have successfully entered the European Union and NATO. It is important that we have successfully carried out both referendums, both the NATO referendum and the European Union referendum. In particular, the NATO referendum was demanding. Regardless of the many opponents, we have succeeded. We succeeded mainly because we managed to unify a large number of political parties in support of this referendum, both in position and in opposition. Undoubtedly, this has been a major success in terms of a relatively complex, difficult international political situation. Entry into the European Union has probably been one of the most successful projects in this mandate, and we can rightly be very pleased with that. Of course, it is right to reiterate that Slovenia has entered the European Union as the most prepared candidate and the best among the new members of the European Union, with all the ambitions to be among the best in the European Union. We have been able to wrap up relatively favourably the difficult negotiations that have been, conclude and carry out, sometimes a very difficult adjustment to such an economic system, of course, in the work of the legal system. I would say myself that this project is characterised by the very large support of all political parties, once again both positions and opposition, and probably one of the main, most important foundations for our success. This required the involvement of both the government, both the National Assembly and all those experts involved in joining the European Union and adapting Slovenia to new times. We often forget that in fact, citizens and citizens have done the most. Slovenia is, by all indicators, both convergence, real and minimal, into the European Union. Steps because it has actually adapted, adapted at the level of everyday life, and at the level of everyday functioning, and also the way of thinking, and if you also want to accept values. This was crucial that we have finally succeeded and effectively entered the European Union, and it is therefore important to stress in this debate that this is primarily the credit of citizens and citizens, of every individual, of businesses, of institutes, of schools, of universities and so on. No one can take credit for this entry by themselves, we have all made our contribution in our own way and according to our own means. We are now in the European Union, we are in ERM 2 and we are taking over the euro and, of course, we have many tasks and obligations ahead of us. We decide equally within the European Union, we decide equally and we are also involved in the decision-making processes within NATO. For the first time, Slovenia is at a table where it decides on very important international political issues, security and political as well as defence matters, as we decided in Istanbul a few days ago, as we have decided in Brussels, and, of course, when it has to participate effectively in this decision-making process and be visible, Slovenia has the primary task to be effective at home, to work effectively and to prepare for the new challenges we face. This is, of course, impossible if the government does not act in a uniform way, as long as there are non-ministers in the government who support the government's work. It is not a European government that can function effectively if it is not the ministers that are members of the government, but also the supporters of this government. It is very difficult to imagine a way of acting in which each of the ministers, or any of the ministers, acts in their own way, does not support the government in which he is, and in fact supports another government that will perform if it does, after the elections. I would, of course, like to stress that everyone has the right to express his or her political and other views in public and, of course, to that end, to be free to unite and unite. Since assuming my mandate, I have entrusted Dr Rupl to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I was sure that we would be able to work together successfully. Despite some different thinking and concerns, I believed that we could work together for the benefit of the state and citizens, of course, in particular, and for the benefit of citizens and countries, if we work together. If we have the same goal and we want to achieve this goal, not if there is someone in the government who might not want to or would not want to do it in an optimal way. And, of course, I must say that, despite a fairly long process and a long-term, different thinking, I have not decided on this step for a relatively long time. Especially because I myself thought that this would not be optimal in individual periods. Undoubtedly, at the time we entered the European Union when we entered NATO, when we were preparing the referendums, this was totally inappropriate. In fact, such a step could cause great problems and eventually result in a negative result. We needed simple unity, a broader unity of all political forces, of all political parties. Thus, it was not possible to do so despite the great differences. Later we entered the European Union. He was approaching on 1 May and, of course, in the light of the entry into the European Union, after we had successfully carried out the referendum, after we had successfully integrated into one and the other processes and we were very well, even internationally politically assessed, it would probably be a major failure to do so, including with regard to Slovenia's international reputation. Despite the warnings, despite the efforts I've been making. Perhaps the Minister himself in many of the interviews that we have had on several occasions, unfortunately, Dr Rupel’s conduct, i.e. active internal political engagement, has become increasingly active, has become increasingly active, which has, of course, definitively caused me to lose confidence, which is essential for the government to act as a team, to act as a team, to work unitedly, to strive for united and good joint results, and this is a prerequisite for the functioning and activity of the government. That is why I am forced to propose the discharge of the Minister for Foreign Affairs as a member of the Government in order to ensure the uniform functioning of the government, not for the benefit of individual parties, but mainly the benefit of citizens and citizens. In this light, I propose to the National Assembly to dismiss the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for further explanation of the proposal. Now he gets the word of Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, Comrade Prime Minister! I thank you for the opportunity to respond to some of the allegations and accusations made by the Prime Minister and the President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I do not wish to legitimise certain disputed business procedures that took place before today's meeting. For my performance, I have decided as a directly elected Member of the National Assembly for the current legislative period, which, if I say so, is returning to its original place of office once again to the successful conclusion of the Ministry. The programme I presented to the competent committee of this Parliament at the time of my appointment, which I have defended several times in the past years before you, is, in fact, fully implemented. In the field of foreign policy, Slovenia has achieved the most. It has joined the society of the most successful countries, predicting that it understands well the new situation in this society, in Europe and the world, and that it will be good in these new situations; I hope it will be true. The new situation is the end of the cold war, it means abandoning ideological and national intolerance, it means uniting in diversity, citing the introduction to the European Constitution, meaning integration policy, meaning reconciliation, attention to the common European destiny and probably a lot more, of course. Today's event seems to me somehow in conflict with Slovenia's achievements. Before I pay full attention to the allegations and accusations made by Prime Minister Robb, and before I respond to them in a reasoned manner, I must say, however, that in fact it is not an accusation as set out in the settlement proposal, but it is an old scenario, a plan that they have drawn up elsewhere. Following this scenario, we need to play some pre-planned roles in the National Assembly today. I didn't want the role I was assigned. That something's wrong, they tell you simple facts. The replacement of the Foreign Minister has been virtually completed and the new Minister has already been appointed without waiting for today's meeting. The reason for the replacement should be my participation in the public tribunal, which took place on the initiative of the New Journal on 23 June and was called the Assembly of the Republic. However, representatives of virtually all cultural, scientific, state and political institutions, including the government coalition, participated in the Tribunal. We have appointed the Assembly for the Republic an open structure for an open society, which is essentially a liberal password. Since it is difficult and virtually impossible to defend the already mentioned justification for my replacement, her husbands have revived an old political campaign that is not yet a word in the draft resolution. For I have led the wrong foreign policy, which should have been particularly evident in my alleged efforts to join the Vilnius Group or its statement last February. And in my consistent support of Slovenia's membership in NATO. Here I would like to point out that I have received orders and support for all these procedures with the decisions of this National Assembly, and finally with the March 2003 referendums mentioned earlier by the Prime Minister. We have already processed this argument many times and it probably does not make sense to repeat it. That this argument is weak support for a request to replace the foreign minister, there are two simple facts. This year's March is the Prime Minister of Mag. There was no problem or opposition with all the other leaders of the countries of the Vilnius Group in the White House. A few days ago, without me, he attended the first NATO summit in Istanbul, where Slovenia performed as a member. The fact is, he's a magician. Robbing one of the ten leaders of the Vilnius Group and one of the 26 leaders of NATO. And of course I congratulate him on that, that's a great success. Thus, Slovenian foreign policy is formal and, in fact, nothing is wrong, so it is not an event which would have any connection with the public tribunals or the wrong foreign policy. As it is said, there is a scenario in which we all work together only as contractors. Of course I'm defending myself here today. I also defend the policy of the National Assembly and this country. I stress this at the beginning, because there's an impression here that I'm not being accused and that I'm not defending myself, but that I'm actually accusing as if I'm attacking, as if I'm tearing it down. Let's face it, colleagues and colleagues. I have been attacked as seldom a minister because I have consistently implemented the conclusions of this Parliament on the approximation of Euro-Atlantic connections. Then I had an out-of-court trial concerning the so-called diplomatic academy, where on the front pages of the clocks, on the radio and on television, I was sent to prison for eight years, staged demonstrations against me in white corners across Ljubljana, even before my private apartment. They even created billboards against the so-called Rupla Diplomatic Academy, which has never been and which apparently cannot be at the time of this government, because despite the alleged concern for national interests, this government has agreed that Slovenian diplomats are better educated abroad than at home. I was not defended by the government that I am a member of, nor by the party that I am a member of. They said it was my private business. They did not congratulate me or apologize to me even after the satisfaction I received in court, three times. My friends were defending me, defending me in private. That is when I began to believe, in accordance with my liberal belief, in the favour of personal initiatives, and as the Prime Minister has said, in private political activities. Of course, all of this was not my private matter, but a carefully drawn-up scenario for the regulation of species, for military discipline and for the exclusion of other thinkers, and if you want to repeat the party history of the 1970s, to which most of today's politicians, I also think most of this assembly has forgotten. I was persecuted by the director of the government office, government or government, if you want, the office and the Attorney General, who is today the minister of the government of Rob. But in public, they made the impression that I was attacking the government. This impression was made today. The fact is, I've been fighting for two years for my survival, political survival, of course. I did not do this for myself, but because Slovenia was in the midst of the most important foreign-policy operations, for which the Foreign Minister was responsible and I directed them myself. Today I can put down the weapons I have defended myself with so far, because they are the main battles behind us and the government has a summer holiday ahead of them. I will certainly respect what this National Assembly will conclude. I was his member, and I intend to return to him. My respect for the state and for this council is undeniable. At this point, I am particularly concerned about what is good for the country. Is it good for the country to replace the Foreign Minister at this time, you will judge Members and Members? Whether any major changes are needed, not only by replacing the Foreign Minister, or whether it should remain as it was, will ultimately be judged by the electorate, who are always the last and highest judges. On the eve of the holiday of the Slovenian statehood on 24 June 2004, Prime Minister Rop proposed that this high assembly relieve me of the position of foreign minister in his government. Prime Minister Rop tells me that I have been engaged in harmful private political activity to question my loyalty to the government. And it follows from the proposal for a solution that I have not taken sufficient account of the President's mandatory instructions. That I had damaged the credibility or unity of the government and that I had lost the President's trust. Finally, the Prime Minister claims that the Minister is no longer doing his job optimally. These accusations, of course, do not correspond to the facts and are wrong. I hear Prime Minister Rob doesn't trust me. Of course, trust and mistrust fall within the field of mentality, belonging to personal relationships or subjective experiences, and so on, they are private. Instead of interfering with the subject of personality and privacy, we usually help ourselves in politics with objective facts and criteria. Most of us are interested in practical results or results in the so-called objective reality. Pre-trust cannot be required of anyone and never. The Minister from the Prime Minister, I, from my colleague, expect, above all, that he will understand the problems, in my case, particularly foreign policy. Slovenia has achieved significant positive results in recent years in the field of international relations, foreign policy and diplomacy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has generally received support for such a policy in the National Assembly, both within the coalition and in the opposition. Thus, Prime Minister Rob lost confidence in me when I attended a public tribunal, says the Assembly of the Republic, which discussed - what?. About the future of the Slovenian country and the Slovenian nation. Such a debate for the Prime Minister seems to be harmful, private political activity. The question is what is harmful, private political activity. I can't answer this question any different than the fact that the Prime Minister just blames me for my personal political beliefs. It seems like we shouldn't have our own thoughts and beliefs that we shouldn't think our own way. Such a command or ban will likely soon strike against the question of the inviolability of the private sphere, human rights, as it introduces nothing more and nothing less than a mental delict. Otherwise, there is political activity in democracy, whether private or public, welcome, not harmful. Of course, it is not the President's rejection of the private political activity of the foreign minister, but rather the rejection of his, my very specific political orientation. Since I've been in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what am I defending? I advocate a moderate, patient and central policy. When it comes to state interests, I call for cooperation and joint consideration by all colleagues in the National Assembly and in the government. This was the case at the time of the referendums for NATO and the European Union, so before the referendum on deleted foreign policy is at all an area where there is a need for state-wide consensus and understanding of the greatest possible number of parties and influential people. The Prime Minister also knows that I have repeatedly invited colleagues from culture, ecadem life, from the coalition and from the opposition to meetings concerning foreign policy. Unlike me, some of my colleagues see the truth only on one side and with one party. This exclusive view has been associated with many sharp media attacks on me. These attacks last for more than two years, there were hundreds of them, of whom I have written extensively, recorded them, the article is called from the Foreigner's heel to Beethoven's 9th and published in the New Magazine last year, a year ago. Unfortunately, radical exclusion policy and unilaterality have also proved to be flawed in elections to the European Parliament. When they asked me to comment on the relatively weak result of my client, I said, "We leaned too far to the left, we left the middle, which was then occupied by others." Such a result would trigger a major debate in each European party to analyse the causes, identify responsibility and abandon the wrong policy. Due to an unexpected poor result in the European elections, the Czech Prime Minister Špidla resigned a few days ago. As a result of the poor results of the European elections, some candidates for President of the European Commission have failed, some European parties and governments in the European Union have hesitated. Dear Members, allow me to ask the question: To whom does it ring? At first glance, of course, it's ringing to me. But I didn't lose the election, I didn't perform either before the elections or at them. It seems to me that the government and its president are ringing the bells of the ruling party, in fact, to all of us. I keep 11 letters in my archive, which I wrote to the Prime Minister on political matters. The first such letter is dated 1 February 2003 and the last letter is dated 15 April 2004. On April 15, 2003, said more than a year ago, I wrote a longer letter to President Rope in which I reminded him of some silent facts regarding the so-called Vilnius Declaration. In that letter, I assumed that, despite a successful referendum, I was threatened with expulsion from the government, which the President had confirmed a little earlier when he said he had been preparing for a long time to expel me from the government. However, I regret that the Prime Minister, in a television interview on 15 April 2003, did not mention in any television interview either the statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government or the conclusions of the Foreign Policy Committee of 20 February 2003. These are details and, of course, I can't deal with them right now. On November 20th, I wrote and published a political manifesto on 17 pages on the LDS website. I wonder what else I could do to encourage an intra-party debate. My point of view, my questions are that President Rob, unfortunately, ignored them as if they were not there. In particular, with the achievements achieved and undisputed achievements in the field of foreign policy, we should take a look at some of the fundamental issues of the Slovenian future. I told myself that we have a promising future ahead of us. Slovenia is playing for the first time in history in the first European political league. We have a great opportunity, we can take advantage of it or we can waste it. The future of Slovenia is in our hands and we could only stop it ourselves. It is not true that we are discussing the future enough. Today, after the spring victories due to the European Union and NATO, Slovenian politics seems as empty as Ljubljana on Sundays. The tiredness shown in the European Parliament's elections will not be overcome by the exclusion and expulsion of the foreign minister. Slovenian politicians need to gather and open, more cooperation, understanding, mutual respect, not exclusion or closure of forums. "Amicus Plato, sed magic amica veritas", is a saying attributed to Socrates. The free translation would read, "Of course I like liberals and my government, but I prefer the truth." Something similar in his lecture, "Policy as a Professional" was written by famous sociologist Max Weber. It's a sense of responsibility when a person reaches a point that he says I'm standing here, I can't do anything else. The assessment that the Foreign Minister is no longer performing his work optimally is simply not true. Of course, the word has optimally different meanings, it can mean that the work is well done, it can mean that this work leads to the optimal or the best purpose. But it can also mean that those who work all the time and at every opportunity express their attachment to the views of their supposed ones. I have already thanked the Prime Minister for such optimism, not for the consequences. But the consequences are of course. I find that I often have to defend myself for honest work. The situation is quite awkward at all. For two years, I've been defending myself from various lawsuits and readings. It began with a debate on NATO, which continued with the diplomatic academy already mentioned. Today, however, I am accused of participating in the Assembly on the Republic, which, without any problem and without penalty, was attended by the most important Slovenian educated and the policy of the coalition and the opposition, unfortunately without Prime Minister Rob, who is invited to this meeting. My colleague Rob is actually, in private, secretly attending Forum 21 meetings and negotiating a state policy with his president. When it came to my replacement, the former president of the state publicly supported the Prime Minister. Here it seems that the main problem of Slovenian politics is the wrong foreign minister. If that were true, it would be different. By the way, have you forgotten that I was recently threatened with imprisonment until I was eight years old because I took my word for the establishment of the Czech Republic? [[...]] Diplomatic academies. Then I'm told you're going to attack the Attorney General. On television, this Attorney General, who is today the Minister of State in our government, explained that my case is among all the cases dealt with by the prosecution, probably a thousand, and my case is very serious. Although her assessment and her initiative were rejected by the court three times, she never admitted it. When I wrote a letter to you, ladies and gentlemen, asking you to reconsider whether to reward such a very biased prosecutor with a ministerial position, I became in the eyes of the Prime Minister a major disrupter of the credibility and unity of the government. Today's event in the Slovenian National Assembly is extraordinary and unusual. The proposals for discharge, especially just before the end of the term of office, are rare. However, the Prime Minister is using the National Assembly to exclude a member of his government, who is also a member of his party, for the first time. Otherwise, the exchange of ministers is not unusual, since there were many of them already; usually ministers have resigned or were resolved by interpolation. Prime Minister Rob recently excluded from the coalition, including from the government, the SLS, with three ministers, after replacing two more ministers without a party, but he has not replaced the minister from his party, unless we take into account Minister Čokovo, who has not replaced the Prime Minister, but has not invited him to the government he inherited from Drnovsk. Today's event is also unusual in terms of timing, since we are separated from the elections by three summer months - two summer months and one half summer months. Today's proposal for my resolution is similar to the proposal for the discharge of Defence Minister Janša ten years ago. I would like to remind you of other events in 1994. At first there was a merger of the then LDS, it is said, the Liberal Democratic Party, as it was called, the Democrats, the party where I was alone, the Greens and the Socialists, i.e. the emergence of a new, stronger party. The events followed: the discharge of Janša, the resignation of the President of the National Assembly, the resignation of the Foreign Minister, the crisis in relations with Italy, the takeover of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the Prime Minister and the painfully long search for a new balance. The year 1994 was a turning point in many ways; at that time many, with me, did not understand correctly, we did not understand correctly, and we did not properly evaluate it. As a matter of fact, I must say, so far strange things have happened to all Slovenian foreign ministers, except me. For the first time, I left the ministerial office in January 1993, in the usual way, after the elections; nothing special. For the second time, I left in the middle of 2000, after the mistrust of the entire Drnovšk government, which was then in the elections, as is known, extremely successful. The voters have entrusted us with a solid mandate that is still going on today, this moment, and which, although entrusted to me, will obviously now allow for my replacement. This was also my mandate, which we also received with my help, and especially thanks to Dr. Janez Drnovška. At the end of 2002, there was a change in the post of Prime Minister, while the Foreign Minister continued the mandate he received in the elections with Drnovska. The rise of Prime Minister Ropa was not linked to the state-run elections, but rather to the decision of Drnovsk and the LDS party. He was the Foreign Minister from spring 1990 to early 1993, then in the first half of 2000 and then from 2001 to today, together for almost seven years. I have done my work, ladies and gentlemen, with joy. I am also pleased and grateful to this Parliament that I have been able to participate and contribute to the decisive developments of the Slovenian country, from independence and international recognition to integration in NATO and the European Union. The changes in the position of foreign minister were relatively common. Loize Peterle, as foreign minister, lasted for the first time a little longer than the half-second year, 1993/1994. Secondly, in 2000 it was only half a year. In autumn 1994, Peterleta was replaced by Prime Minister Drnovšek for a short period of time. After Mojce Drčar Murko's unheard of candidacy, Zoran Thaler became Minister in 1995, but he did not survive the interpolation in May 1996. He was followed by Davorin Kruk for six months. After the elections following the short half-year ministry of Thaler in 1997 and following the unheard candidacy of Iva Vajgle, in mid-1997 he became Minister Boris Frlec, who lasted relatively long, until the beginning of 2000. Frlec, Peterle and Thaler have resigned from the foreign ministers so far. Instead of dealing more with the issues that lie ahead in the European Union, NATO, Croatia and the Western Balkans, and with the next year when Slovenia will chair the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe, the Prime Minister is dealing with the discipline of his fellow workers and with mental problems such as trust and mistrust. The Prime Minister has very little time before him for the plant to which we invited him, I have been inviting him since last spring. On the other hand, I doubt he wants to turn around. The correspondence between him and me on this subject is extensive and may be published sometime. The robbery proved to be an inexperienced successor of his predecessor, who led quite a few governments and which ensured the excellent position of the LDS. As it is said, it is unusual for an internal client's account to be held in Parliament. Such client accounts were typical of unilateral systems. Edward Kocbek and Stane Kavčič left politics as victims of a single-party system and conflicts within it. My friends in the New magazine and I had to defend ourselves before the party or before the SZDL, but on the basis of the 57th issue, which led to Nick Grafenauer and I being suspended in 1987, there was a historic turnover in Slovenia. All these political accounts, however, could not stop the march of democracy. Among other things, the Slovenians have gained democratic power; we have received this multilateral, multi-party parliament. That is why I am so much more reputed when I recently read an article by a renowned LDS political analyst who speaks with admiration about Soviet leaders and who praised the president of the LDS Council for being the future Slovenian Stalin You could talk a lot about history, about independence and the international recognition of Slovenia, but here I do not intend to defend my work. I did my best. Slovenian achievements in foreign policy or diplomacy from 1991 to 1993 and then from 1997 to 2000 to 2004 speak for themselves. I don't have to judge them myself. My work and my achievements are closely linked to the work of other politicians and colleagues. From the international recognition of Slovenia through agreements with Italy and Austria, the Vatican, with the successors of the former SFRJ, from the Convention for the European Constitution to the final accession of the European Union and then I cooperated more closely with my colleagues in the National Assembly, in the government and with the President of the Slovenian State. I don't think anyone could prove that in these relationships, which have produced excellent results, I have done otherwise or badly. Slovenia has become a member of the European Union and NATO, one of the most respected countries in the world, from the Balkan Socialist Republic. This raises just a big question for me: Why can’t Slovenians look forward to their achievements? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the moment of my exclusion is not well-chosen. In those days, we celebrated the Statehood Day, with which many of us feel intimately connected, many in this House celebrate the anniversary of the first EU agreement in Briony, where, of course, there was no LDS, and there was no President at that time. Today there are calls against the independence of Slovenia and the accusations that we are national traitors, who I listened to on the radio on the way from Briony, only a pale memory. Some opponents of independent Slovenia were, of course, sorry later. In those days he also held the NATO summit in Istanbul. I am very pleased that for the first time as a member Slovenia has also attended. However, I regret, of course, that she did not send an external minister to the meeting despite established international practice and despite the invitation. The Foreign Minister, after a personal decision by the Prime Minister, had to travel to London where he was not expected or needed, while he was not allowed to travel to Istanbul, where his participation had been envisaged for a long time and the decision on that participation had been confirmed by the Government. In a similar way, even though I was a signatory to the so-called so-called scandalous, Vatican agreement, I was expelled from the delegation that went to the pope in Rome. Maybe now is the time when I can stop defending myself, because I don't want to become a prosecutor or even a prosecutor like my attackers, I'm going to be asking more or less questions. I'll ask you a few questions. The most serious question, Prime Minister, is this: do you really think it is possible to divide Slovenia into two parts? For a good and bad part, then just sort out the species, call for discipline and responsibility and rule out, which is disorderly and undisciplined? Exclusion is an old and long-standing political concept. Slovenia's independence was based on inclusion, not exclusion. As scholar Tina Hribar says, he is with us who are not against us. The main policies in the beginning of Slovenia were reconciliation, consensus search, cooperation across borders that separate old and new, which separate [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Liberals and clerics. [[...]] We have renounced such fighting, divisions and polarisation because we have all together had before us the establishment of an independent state, the resistance against Milosevic's policy and JLA. Today, in some ways old battles are returned, which is worse in their own way than if they had happened in 1991. Today, we are members of the EU, which is based on integration, on respect for differences and minorities. Today, I find the link between the official authorities and the parallel government structure, which guides politics, polarisation and exclusion, clears negative past images and consolidates its transition gains. My fundamental question Do I still have a word, or will you take my word for it? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u5	As you can see, time is up. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u6	I'd ask for an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u7	You'll have it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u8	And then later I'd give up, like, those minutes that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Try to finish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Can I finish what I have to say now on the bill for half an hour?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u12	So my question is, is it or is it not democracy? The democratic deficit in the EU has been discussed for a long time, and these findings have recently been joined by new ones regarding the political and party problems of former socialist countries that have become new members of the European Union. I'm going to quote from a book that was distributed to journalists at the press conference of the Prime Minister and the London mayor in London on June 23rd, one of the authors of this book, in which Chris Patten wrote the introduction, says that the successors of the former Communist parties are, I quote, "understand that they will have to change a little and share power." This did not necessarily mean that they fully believe in democracy. They did not accept democratic values, self-restraints, responsibilities, billing, transparency and the like. The problem, "I'm reading in this book," is that they didn't keep the political monopoly, but some kind of hegemony." "Protection of the past", says the author, focused on three areas. First, to the former secret police, which has been reformed as a strong and effective network of influences. Secondly, on state property, whose great works have succeeded in privatizing members of the nomenclature from communist times and third time, to ban any research into the communist past." - end of quote. Don't you think, Mr President, that it would be better to cooperate than to disagree? Don't you think it would be right if the coalition spoke to the opposition repeatedly? Don't you think the current Prime Minister would be more likely to consult with the current president of the country? I said before that Slovenian government policy is empty. If the Slovenian policy is empty, it will only be filled if it is open if it is closed, it will remain empty. Don't you think, Mr President, we should try to open it together and fill it with new contents? I mean, you talk about the future a lot, but I haven't heard anything that fills that bowl I've been talking about. Sometimes I get the impression that you're talking about the future, that you don't have to talk about the past, like you're running from one past to another. Do you not think, Mr President, that we should finally show the way that will involve as many of our citizens as possible? I confess that it is not easy to know and decide in the position of heir and guardian of the excellent election result of the LDS in 2000. Yes, it is not easy to understand in the position of an interpreter of poor results in elections for the European Parliament, in a situation where it is necessary for the foreign minister to report errors in the field of foreign policy, which was generally successful and in which you have participated. Tell the President how it is possible and desirable to visit Forum 21 but not to participate in the Assembly of the Republic. The assembly for the Republic appeared as a logical natural way out of the conundrum. In Slovenia, we really lack the opportunities for a relaxed debate, on the other hand, the political sphere is polarised. Many well - meaning Slovenians have tried to resist unilateralism. For two years I myself have experienced all possible threats and attacks that I could not evenly resist, as there was no room for my arguments in the media, for example. Most officers refused to publish either my own or the official explanations of the ministry where I was working after the facts were attributed to me and when I was personally disqualified. Well-meaning commentators comforted me that it was a loud but small group. This was confirmed in several referendums and even in European elections. Election forecasts and actual results are getting more and more each other. They predicted that Nate's referendum would collapse, and then we got 66%. However, the voting minority continued to argue that the result was not convincing. Something similar has happened to the referendum on deleted persons, and last but not least before the European elections, a loud minority has announced the defeat of the winners and the victory of the losers. Of course, predictions and attacks have consequences because we live in a media society. How can we convince mass and media society of the reality of statements, accusations and predictions, the question of Slovenia is relatively small and the availability of facts is bearable. However, the European Union has 450 million inhabitants and the facts in it are accessible mainly through the media. More than in Slovenia today, political fatigue and mistrust are widespread in the European Union, as is evidenced by election participation. So much more so is the objectivity of the media, but, of course, the media are companies that report less and less on events, but are increasingly producing them. Do you not think, Mr President, that we need to base our future on European principles? I am afraid that you have not noticed that the Assembly of the Republic has been fully committed to the European future and European standards. How will we defend European standards in Southeast Europe if we do not take them into account at home? The European Union is a space for the participation of 25 countries and more peoples, a space of minorities and a lasting co-existence of diversity. What did we say about the Croatian zone? In the European Union, we have said that an agreement not unilateral measures, not exclusion, in the European Union requires a high majority for decisions to prevent a modest minority. You do not remember, Mr President, that the former Yugoslavia has fallen apart because of impatience and exclusion, due to voting. You may no longer remember, but the exclusion from the party once meant exclusion from politics, from work, from the country, but of course it was only possible in a unilateral system. You may also recall that the first Slovenian democratic authority, DEMOS, rejected the lustration precisely because it did not want to be equal to the former non-democratic authorities. DEMOS came out of cooperation, not from exclusion. I was an outside minister myself at the time. Did I exclude anyone from the new Slovenian diplomacy?I could not have invited all the Slovenians who worked in Belgrade, including Mr. Wyglo, who is envisaged for my successor? Don't you think, Mr. President, that you are narrow when you reject the advancement of career diplomats if they are members of the opposition party? Are you aware, Mr President, that in most European countries the opposition enjoys high respect? They recognize that today's opposition can be a government or coalition partner. In Scandinavia you will find minority governments, in Switzerland there are growing parties together, in France they often have cohabitation, according to the authorities of all important political groups. Commissioners from different parties participate in the European Commission; they do not ask the European Council for the parties at all, but they do. In the European Parliament, so dear is the Liberal Democratic Party associated with right-centre conservatives and Christian Democrats. The European interest shall be determined by agreement between the countries and the parties. In order for Slovenia to participate in this development and negotiation, it needs to be internally regulated and unified. It can only be united through democratic decision-making, debate, equal opportunities and balance in the media. In the European Union, there is positive discrimination against the weaker and smaller. The European Union is founded on differences, not on agreement, not on the regulation of species and on military discipline. Do you not think, Mr President, that we will achieve a glorious future only if we know how to use intelligence, wisdom, knowledge, arguments, in short all our potentials? It seems to me that by excluding a disobedient minister, you will not achieve much good for the government, for your client, for Slovenia, for its future. Your proposal for my resolution, of course, is personally inappropriate and completely unacceptable to me, and you have no convincing argument for it. Of course, you have a current side argument of power. This is what they call unilateral measures in international relations. I fear that this time a unilateral measure is part of a carefully planned project of distance from the extradition of Slovenian democracy, independence and independent statehood. This distance began in 1994 with a well-known New York manifesto on disqualifications and liquidations. The main purpose of the plan is to correct history, reexplain and tailor the historical plebiscite decisions of Slovenians for democracy and independence in 1990. All funds should be allowed for this. A plan worthy of Slovenian Stalin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. [[...]] Janez Podobnik, Head of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Dr. Rupel, Foreign Minister, Ministers! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the Prime Minister's proposal to dismiss Minister Rupl. The main reason for our decision is that Slovenia has a good foreign minister in the person of Dr. Ruple. We simply do not care about the relationship between the foreign minister, who is a good foreign minister, and the president of one of the government's parties. It is crucial for Slovenia to have a credible person in the field of foreign policy, and that is Dr. Rupel, who is and is still and will remain. Second reason. In our view, it is inappropriate, unusual, for an external minister to be replaced three months before the elections, after the country's great foreign policy successes, such as accession to the European Union and others, and a third reason is substantive. In our view, the justification for the discharge of the Foreign Minister is wrong. Five sentences were written by the Prime Minister in support of his proposal; some are a little longer; three paragraphs are, and I will comment on them briefly. In the introduction, I would like to say that the first part of the Prime Minister's performance when he spoke about economic trends in the country was the agreement on wage policy, on some other trends, an introduction that would have judged this place if today was the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Prime Minister, not the foreign minister. In the second part of the performance, the Prime Minister "de facto" said in this place that Slovenia has a good foreign policy and that it is recognized in the world, and it is also undoubtedly due to the man who is proposing it for resolution. The first argument for a replacement is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly questioned his loyalty to the Government of which he is a member in recent months with his legitimate private political involvement in internal political affairs and that this has not always been without consequences for the full and conscientious exercise of his role as a member of the government. Here I would like to draw attention to an important misunderstanding or a different focus on working in Slovenian politics. We have coalition governments, we don't have a majority system, we don't have a chancellor model, we have coalition governments. It is therefore most normal for ministers to have very different political beliefs in different departments and to engage in internal political affairs. And if any of the ministers attend an internal political meeting that has an important impact on the political future in the country, then, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister [[He's not here right now.]] Then it's an insider's matter, not a national council matter. So it is not a matter of loyalty to the government, but it is a question of loyalty to the political party of which the minister is a member. Therefore, in our view, the argument is absolutely wrong in the first place. The Prime Minister then says that he has repeatedly specifically and well-intentionedly warned the Minister, under Article 14 of the Government Act, and gave him mandatory instructions regarding the tasks arising from the direction of the government and which are important for the work of individual ministers. And despite Dr. Rupel's assurance that he would "improve" or that he would heed the warnings, these warnings about his function are harmful. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in our view, this is a completely wrong interpretation of Article 14 of the Government Act, which speaks of these mandatory guidelines. We ask the Prime Minister, in which area, from the direction of the government, which is important for the work of the external director, Dr Rupel acted contrary to the basic decisions of the National Assembly and the Committee on Foreign Policy. In what foreign policy area did Dr. Rupel receive a mandatory guide and not stick to it? Relations with Croatia? The European Union? Then? The Vilnius Group? By the way, the Committee on Foreign Policy supported with a large majority the Slovenian government's decision to join the Vilnius Group. We ask when and how Dr. Ruplakot's involvement has been detrimental to his function, especially in recent times. The Prime Minister says that everyone has the right to express his political and other views in public that he is freely connected to this end, but that he has assumed a special responsibility for his actions by assuming public office. Especially if the latter seriously builds credibility and unity of government action. We ask the Prime Minister if he can tell us when and how Dr. Rupla's internal political activity was due to the initiation of the credibility of the government or of Slovenian foreign policy? In our opinion, the proposal to replace Dr. Rupl is harmful to the Slovenian state. First of all, because Dr. Rupel is an established international policy and in many international forums he represents the Slovenian country correctly, persistently and well for the interests of Slovenia. Secondly, in politics they are not key symbols and symbols, but they are important. We ask whether, in a symbolic sense, it is good for them to propose to replace the foreign minister on the eve of the largest public holiday, who, in turn, must be recognised as one of the central figures of Slovenian independence and Demos. The Slovenian People's Party was known for enriching the political space of the Slovenian environment in politics. We paid a lot of money for that. Today's performance, Dr. Rupla, I congratulate him on his grand performance, is proof that if you stand up for a position of connectivity, dialogue, communication through political channels, discussions, convincing that you end up paying a great political price. In our view, the Prime Minister's move is also a wrong political signal. This signal says, "Anyone who thinks otherwise will have to go." And that's bad for Slovenian politics. And also Slovenian voters and voters may react again in such a way that they do not go to the elections. People expect more cooperation, more integration, more dialogue. With today's proposal for a solution, the Prime Minister, much more than the Foreign Minister, was at risk. With his move, the Prime Minister risked falling after him and his policies. I must point out that in the first sentence of the main objectives of participation in the coalition, in which since 2001 the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS - the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Retirement of Slovenia have been: "The first objective, tolerance and more integration in Slovenia, taking into account freedom of choice, the enforcement of new ideas, the non-implementation of old ideologies and the future without trauma of the past" Today's move and today's decisions are contrary to this main objective, which is enshrined in this document. In our view, it is also a false argument that in the private political activity of the foreign minister who signed himself under the initiative, which also has the following invitation: "We suggest that this objective be achieved by the Assembly of the Republic, which would gather all people of good will and democratic state-building from and outside all parties..." and, of course, the political appeal follows, and it is true that the public "This year could also develop into a victorious coalition of state-created and democratic parties." And if you propose such a path and such a way of dialogue, in our view, you cannot act negatively and take the credibility of the government. You invite me to a dialogue and talk. For some other aspects of the proposal for the discharge of the Foreign Minister, other fellow Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will then speak in the debate. Allow me to conclude by stressing once again the fundamental reasons that guide us not to support the proposal for a solution. First time. Slovenia has a good foreign minister. The discharge of Dr. Rupl is bad for the Slovenian state and is a bad signal to the international public. Another time. Three months before the elections, this is not how a solution is proposed. However, if you have already proposed and justified in the wrong foreign policy directions of the foreign minister, then it is right or brave for the Prime Minister to take over such a resort. And the third time. The Prime Minister wrongly argued the proposal for a solution. These are the reasons that will guide us not to support the proposal. It was asked who is ringing: Slovenian political culture is ringing and democratic standards are ringing in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Franz Lenko is given the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the Minister, with his private current political involvement in internal political affairs, is working to achieve the objectives of the Government of which he is a member. We respect the minister's legitimate views in the parliamentary group, but we believe that his current political engagement does not contribute to the unity and effectiveness of the government he is a member of. We would be pleased if he expressed his commitment to the government's common policy. Its political positions raise doubts about the coherence of government policy or raise doubts about the unity of government. We know that the constitutional provision obliges the Prime Minister to implement government policy and that the individual views of Mr Rupl make it impossible to implement government policy effectively. We recognise the positive achievements of Mr Rupl in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group, both in the country's independence and in the field of foreign policy, but his former merits do not give him an alibi for political actions in the internal political life of the country, which are contrary to government policy. We are confident that if Mr Rupel were to be faithful to his principles, he would have resigned himself. In the parliamentary group, we will support the government proposal because we believe that such a solution is legally pure. In fact, you can't be a member of a collective at the same time that you don't respect. In the parliamentary group, we would also like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to deal less with internal political problems and to see the focus of his work mainly in the foreign-policy activities of the country or activities in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you. A quiet run has a word. Position of the United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues? Before the end of the term, when we expected at least as peaceful as the end of the work, a new affair had been created consciously and thoughtfully - the resolution of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl. According to our assessment, the affair was caused by an outside minister of the coalition government. With it he wanted to show his attitude towards the government and also to test relations in coalitions. We do not believe that the discharge of the foreign minister three months before the end of the current coalition government is a politically indisputable act in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, but at the same time we are convinced that the causes and consequences are also changed and misjudged in this case. The cause of the affair is not a proposal for the discharge of the Minister. That's just the consequence. The result of the unacceptable conduct of the Minister himself. Since this is an experienced policy, Dr. Rupel must have thought through all his actions together, as he himself says, with his right - hand friends, and planned well. He decided to test his government to the extent that it should convene a assembly of all or a large majority of all its opponents with a goal, to tell the public that this government, which is also the Foreign Minister, this party and this coalition no longer deserve or support from the public no longer; that the government must be irrefutablely replaced and that, therefore, in the Assembly of the Republic, those who will join the new victorious coalition are gathered into the new Demos. He made it clear how he feels about his government, that there is a need for change of power and that he himself wants to participate in this change, or that it would not be written in the invitation to the Assembly for the Republic that, among other things, the possibility of a new victorious coalition for the takeover of power would potentially also mean. Thus, he undeniably helped to organise the Assembly for the takeover of power in the autumn elections against the government of which he is a member and against the coalition in which he has been involved so far. In the United List of Social Democrats, we do not think that this is any unacceptable political action, and he, like Dr Dimitrij Rupel, can act. However, in the parliamentary democracy and the party system, it is also an act that makes it impossible and it should not be surprising that it has certain political consequences for those against whom it is directed to assess for themselves what it is and how it is understood to do so. That is why we are truly surprised that the question now arises what has happened and why the Prime Minister has done so. He was simply placed in a position by a foreigner, Dr. Ruple, to show himself as a human being not able to decide whether or not to make decisions. Perhaps this invitation for the Republican Assembly could also be fully minimized and mocked, but he did not do so, as soon as he accepted it as a serious act in politics, he had no doubt to react. Therefore, in our belief today, it is not possible to assess the consequences above all without assessing the cause; and the reason is Dr. Rupl’s unfair and politically unacceptable conduct. Anyone who doesn't see it is either politically blind or consciously blind. In the UK Group, we are neither one nor the other, so we would really like to know whether the champions of the parties who today are appalled at the behaviour of the mags would like to know. Robbery, you've done differently. The experience we have from their conduct in many less important cases is different for specific parties, for Members and so on. The experiences we have from the decomposition of Demos also tell us otherwise. A common political activity was required to achieve certain objectives and those consciously excluded from it had to accept the consequences consciously. So much for us as regards the normal reaction of the Prime Minister to her Minister's will. Dr. Rupla's performance today only confirmed and confirmed this because he said much more than it had been written before. Therefore, when the Prime Minister decided to resolve, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats decided that it should also ensure coalition unity and vote in favour of the discharge of Dr. Rupl and the appointment of a new minister. Before the decision to do so, there could have been individual reflections, but the final position is one: the Prime Minister has the right and must also ensure the political unity and functioning of the government, in which he is sovereign, that is his personal right as Prime Minister. In the majority of the systems of parliamentary democracy, these rights are even constitutionally guaranteed, as it sets up and dismisses ministers personally, sometimes with the formal consent of the head of state. We are one of the few, if not the only country in which he is releasing ministers of parliament, so in most countries the minister would be suspended and appointed a new minister. If the vote in the National Assembly on Resolution had been lifted, which has also been tried with constitutional changes, then this one would normally be disabled, I must say, a political show that we will probably present today. So a show that the opposition will use for anything other than a resolution debate. Finally, the United Nations Group of the Social Democrats in the proposal for a discharge does not wish to assess the work of the Minister so far. They would be unjust if we did not recognise his efforts and decisions that contributed to independence, international recognition, the entry into force of Slovenia in Europe and the world, as well as full membership in the European Union and NATO. These must be important achievements that we are all proud of. True, in our view, there have also been bad suggestions and bad decisions, we have spoken about them, but it is wrong to attribute positive actions to the merit of a group of people, but they do not acknowledge all those who have contributed. Unless it is said that before and after 1990 there were many activities that ensured that Slovenia had become a democratic, independent and independent country and in this direction we expect more sense of objectivity and more sense of truth also in Dr. Rupl's statements, linking the proposal for a withdrawal with the fact that we want to withdraw from democracy, that we want to withdraw from the effort for the independence of Slovenia and so on. The issue will be highlighted by ladies and gentlemen, and they will show, in my opinion, that they are not large and deserving, but small, offensive and prestigious; that they want to attribute certain important historical decisions to themselves, not to the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, and to many who have worked with them. Such personal qualities, however, are not a good basis for participation in politics, let alone if and if such people have authority. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we would like, if possible, an objective and patient assessment of the circumstances of the proposed discharge, the real assessments of the services of the Minister, as well as the shortcomings and facts that have led to the urgent disconnect. We will support the proposal for a solution ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnič gets the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please keep your cell phones quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished fellow Members, members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's meeting of the National Assembly is due to disagreements in the current government or, rather, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which uses this space to resolve its prestigious issues. As a result of growing conflicts, the credibility of the country, both at home and in international circles, may also suffer. While we are sitting here, the situation in the economic field, in health care, in education and elsewhere is deteriorating due to the poor governance of the government. In addition to this, a bad picture of government behaviour on external matters will now appear. Slovenia has taken important steps in the foreign policy area in recent years: integration into NATO and the European Union. These decisions were highly endorsed by citizens and included civil associations, the majority of Slovenian Parliament parties, important citizens and others. We have achieved success with the necessary consensus and state coherence and maturity, and this has also been positively confirmed by Slovenia's international activity, which we also support in Novi Slovenije. Regrettably, at this celebration on 1 May, the ruling parties of the coalition have wrongly adopted all the capital of successful inclusion in international integration, in particular in the EU, even though they have been reserved during the self-sustaining process for such guidance, which, on the other hand, have been placed by the spring parties as a key vision of the normalisation of the Slovenian country. This has proved to be - so, at this celebration, and we have seen at this celebration how some were drooling, even though these integration processes were initially opposed. However, according to the practice of turning their political course in the opposite direction several times, according to the daily benefits. As the Prime Minister has not made any serious arguments for the discharge of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, except in violation of party discipline, today's practice of a strange ritual, coupled with state logic, and a negative message to the international public. State toying for prestigious positions in a party that is taking a breath loses its reputation among voters, which now puts the country’s reputation and statehood at a disadvantage. The communication to the international public will only be able to put aside ministers in Slovenia for participation in public meetings where issues of the Slovenian future are raised. In Novi Slovenija we do not care which chair will be moved by the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Rupel - this is his decision. We are interested in the credibility of foreign policy and the reputation of the state. Dear Prime Minister, if Minister Rupel has sinned against party discipline, he could be disciplined by party measures, not by the use of state measures with which you take the country's credibility. That's what you did the bear a favor to the client. However, we are not interested in the reputation of your party in Novi Slovenija, it is irrelevant. It is essential that you have the reputation of state and credibility in the international public, but of course you have shown a poor measure of state wisdom. You've been dealing mainly with party problems lately. You expelled the SLS from the ruling coalition and made the coalition more pure. Clearly, it is a mental profile in the way it is handled, and obedience and loyalty to the authorities are key in selecting the people responsible for the cities. There is more impatience, pride, and reckless action in the way we rule. You're not aware of your responsibility to run the country. There is certainly a fear of its own mistakes and failure in other areas. The foreign policy area is one of the less controversial in your government if we consider matters with neighbouring Croatia and a initial border agreement in the Piran Bay of the predecessor Drnovska with Račan. If we can talk about lost opportunities, this is an arrangement of relations with Croatia, in particular the border with this neighbour, where we missed a more decisive performance for Slovenian interests. Economic policy in our country is poor, as the concept of breath and persistently extinguishes the economy and is increasingly moving away from the developed countries in the EU. Investors, both domestic and foreign, avoid our land. On the scales of a favourable environment for the economy, entrepreneurial openness and mentality and regulation of the legal situation for good economic business, we are increasingly sinking towards the bottom of these scales. We are being rushed by the Czech Republic, Slołąż and the Baltic States, over which we have been stinking ten years ago that we have nothing to do with them. It is much more justified to dismiss Dr. Kebra's Minister of Health. The government and you, who gave him full support, caused an unsustainable health situation, with major losses, waiting hours for patients, duties, obsolete equipment and a loss of confidence in the system. The health reform has turned into a farce, which is also a matter of concern to you, and yet you have retained a minister who has lost all confidence. You have lost confidence in pensioners, we have witnessed the fall of the rule of law on exams, and corruption, clientism, bribery and similar ingenuity are increasing. However, if you ask us about these ministers, who are responsible for these questions, whether we should resolve them now - no, you have lost or lost your opportunity. And even now, within two months, there's no point in dealing with you. Last year we told you in New Slovenia at our camp that the LDS story is exhausted, is dead and the New Slovenia season is coming, with clear answers to economic policy, health, international activity, education and other. This has proved to be the case in the last European Parliament elections. The OSCE Presidency and such actions as these today certainly do not contribute to our credibility and effective presidency of Slovenia in this important international body or association. This is also a poor journey for responsible work ahead. In Novi Slovenija, we acted responsibly in key state-owned projects. In this we sought consensus and jointly supported the good ideas and actions of the government coalition without narrowly prestigious party interests. We've supported all these state-of-the-art projects. The suspension of the Foreign Minister does not fall within the framework of state-of-the-art actions, so we do not want to participate. In fact, the suspension of the Minister is another addition to a series of ill-conceived actions by the Prime Minister. And what will other countries that are carefully monitoring the reckless exchange of the foreign minister for participation in a republican assembly think? If there is nothing but a public tribunal, which has also been attended by the President of Parliament, Mr Borut Pahor, and the President of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and a number of other distinguished people. They will say that we are an unrealistic and immature country with a serious democratic deficit. Could you deny or invalidate the results of the activities of the Foreign Ministry by dismissing Mr. Rupl for his participation in the Assembly of the Republic? Perhaps you do not agree with the inclusion in the EU and NATO? What, in fact, did the minister do wrong to have him suspended now, two or three months before the end of his term of office? You did not give these arguments, you did not explain them: only that they do not follow party discipline. Then we should have a discharge much earlier and not at the end of the period, if there are any serious reasons for foreign policy action. What actions of the Minister do you disagree with, apart from that meeting? Therefore, please provide arguments that will justify the exchange in such a short time before the government replaces or expires. At that time, we should adopt a series of laws, which are overdue, which are linked to EU integration and should be prepared in ministries before 1 May. If the minister has blamed a move in the past, we should propose a solution to it when unacceptable acts have occurred, so this action is understood as some kind of stopping Slovenia. People find that you and your client, in fact, no longer want to manage the country with dignity. That's what today's meeting says. In the meantime, you are speedily putting your people in positions of responsibility as credit for their loyalty. In previous pre-election periods, you spent budgetary resources on companies in difficulty to buy voters' votes. Now you have a second strategy, you share money with your loyal friend. That is why Minister of Economy, Mr Lahovnik, will distribute the 8 billion European money quickly during the holiday season to some of the providers that your LDS stands for. Is this a contribution to reducing regional disparities? With such actions, you prepare to surrender power, but you leave a bad legacy to the heirs. So today's meeting is unnecessary because you use it to solve intra-party problems. Save them, sir, Prime Minister, within the client's circle. We do not support your proposal in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you, Master Petty Officer. Master Marko Diaci has the floor for the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the discharge of Dr. Rupl's foreign minister, but not for the reasons stated in his proposal for discharge by Prime Minister Rob, but because there are serious substantive reasons in the Minister's work that are sufficient and require discharge. We have already requested the Minister's discharge in the spring of 2003, and we support it now. We've prepared an interpolation, but she hasn't received support. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not only to blame him personally but also for the government, which has allowed such action and conduct, but now only a few months before the elections, he is in a hurry to replace the Minister. We distance ourselves from political controversies in SMS and we are against leaving someone for imperfection and disobedience in matters that do not have a direct connection with foreign policy as a minister's field of work. We support the discharge of the Minister for the following reasons, which relate to the work area of the Foreign Policy Minister. Since the signing of the so-called Vilnius Declaration and the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia occurred at the time of the ministership of Dr. Rupl, this violation was also the basis for the proposal for the interpolation of spring 2003, which at that time did not receive sufficient support; due to the milky and undefined policy of solving problems with neighbouring Croatia, in particular border issues. With his approach to the Vilnius declaration, the Foreign Minister classified the Republic of Slovenia as one of the countries supporting the military intervention against Iraq without the approval of the United Nations Security Council. As an irrefutable evidence of violations of the resolution in the Vilnius Declaration, the Republic of Slovenia recognises those presented by the US Defence Minister to the UN Security Council and which have not been rejected by the UN Security Council as evidence of violations of the resolutions. By doing so, Slovenia does not recognise the role of the UN Security Council in finding violations of its resolutions, but is satisfied with the evidence presented by the United States of America to the Security Council. That the evidence is questionable has proved to be in the presentation of the report to the UN Security Council by the heads of inspectors. Most of the evidence given by the US could not be confirmed by the Chief Inspectors and did not join the opinion of the US Foreign Minister that their evidence constituted a violation of resolution 14. 41. Slovenia's accession to the Vilnius declaration fundamentally changes the foreign policy orientation of our country or it is. By signing the declaration, Slovenia has undoubtedly supported the American policy towards Iraq, ignored the role of the UN Security Council, demonstrated its readiness to participate in the war against Iraq and has clearly called on the UN Security Council to approve the war against Iraq. The consequences of Slovenia's accession to the declaration are known. We know how it was understood by the United States of America, according to their statements, as an approval for military intervention without the approval of the UN Security Council, and as understood by the European Union countries, not by the Slovenian Foreign Minister and the government as such. By accession to the Vilnius Declaration, the Minister of Foreign Affairs violates Article 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lays down, among other things, that laws must comply with the generally applicable principles of international law and with the applicable international treaties ratified by the National Assembly, the rules of law and other general acts, as well as with other ratified international treaties. This act and their resignations are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, even contrary to its own statements and contrary to the will of the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who are close to the principle of the rule of law and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which has never been an aggressor state in its history, has also committed itself to cooperate with completely possible illegalities and aggression against another sovereign member of the UN. At the same time, because of such catastrophic activities of Slovenian diplomacy, Slovenia has made its international position significantly more difficult than the spirit and principles of the common European security and foreign policy in the final phase of the European Union's approximation. In his effort to enter NATO at all costs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, under the leadership of Minister Rupl, has pushed into the second plan the entry into the European Union, which has always been the first foreign policy objective in all national documents. Of course, all of this would not be possible if the Foreign Minister had not remained deaf for months and years for all justified criticisms and proposals. The Ministry’s leadership with a strong hand, avoiding the argument and leaving the Ministry’s professional staff had to lead to a situation where the Minister was no longer able to lead an effective foreign policy. The essence of Slovenian foreign policy is that it is too simple, under the current minister it has become even simpler. His entire diplomatic recital was the same used phrase: we want NATO. If you repeat this from day to day, from month to month, from year to year, and submit all your activities to this one and only goal, there is not much room left for active foreign policy. And when you can't say another in foreign policy, you stick to the monotonous amount of the remnants of the transition countries. For the rest of the world, you're like a copy of the Balts or the Slovaks. You can't be disgusted, you're being vilified under B 10 if you can't predict diplomacy, surprises happen. When you don't have an initiative, you're left with an association. And when you're only dealing with slow-moving events, they're premature. In Slovenia everything happens all the time. Slovenia has narrowed its view to the European Union and NATO in recent years. The Euro-Atlantic objective has become a masquerade for the absence of an external political vision. Slovenia is without an external political profile, so it is difficult to deviate from the remaining transition Eastern monolith. And the implications of any other policy of a profiled country that is interested in anything other than NATO have gone rogue. For these reasons, we will support the discharge of Minister Rupl, although it should be made clear that the reasons and credibility of the foreign policy presented are not only on his side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you, Marco Diaci. The word is given by his colleague Jelko Kacin, the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues in the coalition and opposition, Prime Minister, members of the government, media representatives and our public! First of all, I would like to say a few words to the Vice-President of the Government. He apologizes to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Pohorc, who is chairing today's meeting. I have before me a letter addressed today by Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, addressed to Borut Pahor, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At 12:25 p.m., a letter came to the National Assembly. It says: "I am writing to you about today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which the Prime Minister's proposal for my discharge will be discussed. I ask that you, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, provide the appropriate time for my performance in this session. If possible, I'd perform twice every half hour. So you'd need a total of an hour." Mr. Secretary wanted two and a half hours. Mr. Chairman, you gave him an hour because he told you he wanted to have an hour. The length of our memory is short, so it is only right that we remember what we said a little earlier in all the statements we make at any time. If, until this point, the performance of the Foreign Minister in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia was also questionable whether the conduct of the Prime Minister, the coalition and the parties was appropriate or not, after the performance of the Foreign Minister, such doubts were less and less. When the minister spoke of others, he spoke of himself and said all the necessary reasons why he could not be in the government. I also listened to the Prime Minister. He didn't say anything about the Republican Assembly, he didn't mention it once. But the parliamentary groups talked about it and the Minister for Foreign Affairs talked about it. In the parliamentary system, the government is at the same time the political top of the executive function and the highest authority of the state of administration. In any event, the government is a political body that implements the policy of a party or coalition of parties that form a government. Ministers are members of the government as executive body in the parliamentary system. Ministers, as political persons, come to their posts because of and in relation to the election result and therefore give the ministry political legitimacy and political direction. Ministers play a double role: on the one hand they are members of the government as a college body and as such they participate in the formulation of general government policy and, on the other hand, they run ministries that are the authorities of the state administration. The fundamental problem with the position of ministers is that they need to be stable on the one hand, because this is essential for the normal functioning of the government and, on the other hand, ministers must be responsible for their work to political parties and coalitions, which enabled them to be elected if their operation is to be democratic. Since ministers have a dual function, a member of the government and a chair of the Ministry’s department, their responsibility is also double; i.e., collective and individual. Their collective responsibility is expressed in the political responsibility of the government as a whole, which is at the same time the collective responsibility of its members. Nevertheless, each minister has a special political responsibility for his own actions. Political responsibility is, as a rule, not a type of criminal responsibility; the nature of political responsibility does not in itself exclude political sanctions, even if it is no form of criminal responsibility of a minister. The initiative to enforce the minister's political responsibility may come from Parliament or from the Prime Minister. It can also happen that Parliament does not exercise its responsibility, but the Prime Minister himself will impose it on the individual minister, usually by proposing the discharge of the minister. The Prime Minister can, of course, do this entirely by his own discretion without identifying the responsibility of the Minister in Parliament. The reasons for such action may be very different, either in connection with the Minister's activities or with the changed political circumstances. The Constitution already stipulates that the Prime Minister is concerned about the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and coordinates the work of ministers, as set out in Article 114, paragraph 1, of our Constitution. Under the law, the President directs and directs the government's work, ensuring the unity of the government's political and administrative direction, coordinating the work of ministers, representing the government and citing and leading its meetings. In doing so, the Prime Minister has the right to give ministers binding guidance for their work. Each minister, as a member of the government, is responsible for both the actions of the Prime Minister and the work of the government as a whole. In this case, it is the responsibility of the ministers for the general policy of the Prime Minister and the government itself. This shows that each minister is responsible, whether he agrees with the decision of the Prime Minister or the Government, and even if he voted against the decision taken. It can only be resolved if it resigns from the minister's office, otherwise it does not have the right to criticize, but even has the duty to support all decisions, whether it agrees with them or not. If the Minister disagrees with the decisions of the Prime Minister or the Government, he may withdraw. We can certainly see that in our constitutional and political practice, derogations are only exceptionally understood and used in the way they are common in modern democratic countries. We certainly lack something here, but we have not yet provided the necessary majority to change the constitution in the National Assembly. In the world, it is common and even imperative that a minister who disagrees with the Prime Minister or government policy resign because it is incomprehensible that he criticizes the Prime Minister or the government and is still a member of the government. Therefore, according to parliamentary customs, the Minister can only criticize after he has resigned from his post; that is when he is very, very credible and can criticize. In such a case, the resignation not only ensures the homogeneity of the government team, but also ensures the political reputation of a minister who would otherwise have lost him if he had not given up. On the other hand, this responsibility is primarily a political culture; it requires a model of the behaviour of the political function holders they hold if they do not want to lose their functions or even become permanently disabled in political life. This makes it less difficult for us to exercise the minister's responsibility, and the lack of democratic tradition, which is evident both in political functions and in the political public, which is ultimately crucial to the exercise of such responsibility, is more responsible for our difficulties. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented himself to us in many interviews. Now I will read part of the interview from Youth published today: "I am a modest civil servant at this moment or, if you want, someone who lives on his job. I am not involved in politics because I would be interested in political careers or any profit, but because I thought it was right for Slovenians to get their country." And then, "God is my witness that I don't want to cause any conflict, but I want you to understand each other. What happened, what happened, what Rob did about me, I regret it. I think he broke it, and I think it's a sign of impatience and in particular of the lack of state wisdom that, say, some other politicians do have." These are harsh words about the Prime Minister and the government. Among other things, we have heard that this session is a conspiracy. The fact that it is a conspiracy that some others are behind it; that it is a matter of some "botres" who are supposed to decide the background and determine our roles, Members of Parliament, and some others - probably the Prime Minister, members of the government, ministers. We have heard that it was an out-of-court trial against the Minister for Foreign Affairs, although only the state authorities have responded adequately and legally and the subject matter of the investigation has also been completed without sanctions for the same Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is not appropriate for someone on the public political floor to get involved, stumble, fall, or, as it is said at home, "fetter" in front of our public eye and then declare the event an assassination. That's not appropriate. This is not appropriate, it is not credible and it is the credibility of all of this. Today the masks have fallen and the pretending is gone. The performance of Minister of Foreign Affairs, my friend Dimitri, was very eloquent and very convincing. As Minister Rupel says, we have a glorious future ahead of us. And about this glorious future, he asked himself, "Who's he calling?" In doing so, he said that it "belled" many governments after the European elections and that the Czech government had already fallen out of this "belling". Minister of my Government of the Republic of Slovenia and opposes the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. On the Foreign Policy Committee, he told us in questions and initiatives that he was neutral about his resolution. It is not neutral, it holds the government of the Republic of Slovenia, it holds the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and it holds the ruling coalition. The vote on his discharge offered us today or imposes it on us as an opportunity to speak in confidence to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. His message is: he, the Prime Minister, or I, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He prefers me. I know Minister Rupla, I personally appreciate Dimitri Ruple, especially because of his intellectual abilities, his work, which is really classified among the intellectuals, but today he has also presented himself to us as a great healer. And it's about health in the government. It is only right that we say something and then in the end, after all that has been said, we decide. It's about power. The minister does not want to be in power, although he is only a modest state official, as he says in an interview in Mladina, he argues that under the authority of the Prime Minister, the ruling coalition and the party paying her membership fee. The comparison with the discharge of the Defence Minister in 1994 is not credible and is simply not realistic. The officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not exceed their authority, their powers, they did not imprison any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, they did not act violently against him, it was not a dispute between soldiers and civilians, and Dr Dimitrij Rupel today was not the party's president, as was Mr Janez Janša at the time. As a result of what is happening today, the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia will not abandon the ruling coalition and, therefore, it seems to me that such comparisons are historic and are purely manipulation and deception of ours and of any other public. Something about a NATO referendum that didn't go down. Of course, it did not fail, and there were many of us who actively stood up and highlighted that the referendum would succeed. We were not very convincing about this, but we were not particularly convincing with the Minister, either, because if he believed in public research, it was a percentage or two in favour of NATO, until it happened to us or Serbia was assassinated by their Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic. Only then did citizens and citizens of Slovenia wake up, wake up and realize that it is a matter of national security, that it is a geopolitical situation in the southeast of Europe, and that we should thank for such a large percentage of this awakening. I am reducing the energy and efforts that my fellow Minister, Dr Rupel, has invested in having a full and equal mission in Brussels today. But history is just a little more complicated, so I'm going to add a little bit more. If that body of Mr Istanbulič were to be found some week earlier, before the referendum in that limestone pit, I am sure that the percentage of joining NATO would still be significantly higher, and we would not have any moral right to boast about how we convinced people. The historical situation was just like that and, thank God, they were on our hands and helped us to make things happen the way they did. Dr. Slavoj Žižka should be read in full, and the technique of torn quotations is not the quality of intellectuals and not intellectuals. Therefore, it would be all because Stalinism was said, what the president of the world of Liberal Democracy said, read once again or maybe twice - if it would help anything. Our independence was a great event for all of us. For those of us who have lost our independence, this event is yet another special one. It's also a moment of bitter memory. They have given our project the most for independence and, to put it this way, even though we have led some others. Therefore, the handover on what is decent to do on the eve of Statehood Day is a handover that is not specifically dosed. The Prime Minister may at any time, on Friday or at a saint, propose the discharge of the Minister. This holiday of state is not Dr. Dimitri Ruple's holiday. This is a holiday for all citizens and citizens. Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u26	When you talk, if you talk, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u27	You'll get your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u28	I will listen to you very carefully, and I will respect you if you don't cheat nonsense. [[...]] Also, the National Assembly, this high assembly, and within it our LDS Group, are proud of the gratitude for our democracy, for our independence and for the many successes at home and abroad. This is about the success of Slovenia. Some of them are and some of them are and some of us have been decorated for our contribution, including with the highest national decorations. We also returned some of these decorations, and even though we were talking about others at the time, we said much about ourselves, our supposed greatness of that moment, our self - respect, and our self - respect. A lot of people would probably do something different today. After all, it is a Slovenian country, a national day and a recognition, the establishment and defence of this Slovenian country. The LDS Group trusts the President of the Party, the Chairman of the Coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its assessment. We really distinguish between the cause of relief and the reasons for resolution. And recognizing the role of the Prime Minister and his responsibility, including his direct responsibility for the effective work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the credibility of the government, it is also the credibility of the LDS Group, if that is what you want, "but there are certain boundaries in politics," said Dr Dimitrij Rupel in this same interview in Mladina, and I can also say the page where this is said. It's written on page 40. But there are some boundaries in politics, and I repeat the quote and I conclude it. The LDS Group, which some understand and see as a society of vulgoliberals to discredit or discredit us in this way, understands the reception and supports the proposal of the Prime Minister and the coalition. It will therefore provide all the votes it has available for a favourable outcome. I believe that, together with the other coalition parties and part of the opposition, we will confirm the proposal of the Prime Minister of Mags. Toneta Ropa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain only that the Foreign Minister had twice in the plan after 30 minutes for his discussion. When he exhausted the first 30, he asked that the first part should have a little longer, and the second part was so shorter, so that it was 9 minutes and 39 seconds longer in the first part. Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic is given the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, other ministers. Mr. Secretary, unlike the others, I won't read. I will say what I mean and I will say what we think for three years in the Slovenian National Party. I'm not going to change my mind. You probably know that, and I hope you'll respect that. I always want a cultured introduction if I have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of Members, as well as on my behalf. This time, my dominoes have fallen a bit, because, if I may say so in my own name, but also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, a little bit strange, but let this "strange" be under quotations, and read in parentheses a little bit appalled at everything I heard here today from some species, but I will not polymise because I have no right. How can you tell your colleagues to tell the minister anyway that he's done so much, that he's worthy of all respect at the same time telling him that you're going to get rid of him? Okay, if this is a fair relationship for you, okay. The Slovenian national party, from which Mr Minister, I am speaking, has sent proof to the Minister, but there is more than 30 press releases, protests, non-conclusions, questions sent. Since then, the Slovenian national party has not agreed with the moves made by the minister. It's not. There's evidence, I've got it, and you can all get it. That is why we insist on this position. The Slovenian national party was among those who proposed the intervention in February 2003 to the Minister, the same people who support his resolution today rejected the opinion and assessment of the Slovenian National Party if "what will you do". You think what you want, the Slovenian National Party has some evidence that sometimes it's always right. And if that were the case, it would be different, and politics would be different. Dear Minister, among all the questions we have warned you in the Slovenian National Party and disagreed with your policy. In 2002, as regards the pre-accession negotiations, I will state the exact reasons and I will be very serious, we have criticised your decisions around the border between Slovenia and Croatia, the maritime borders, around the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank, the nuclear power plant Krška, the Vilnius Declaration, wanted to sign your interpretation in February 2003, criticised your bilateral agreement on the non-delivery of American citizens, the eligibility of the attack on Iraq, the declaration of the exclusive economic zone on the Adriatic Sea, the ecological fishing zone, the refusal of the request, which was transmitted or indirectly not answered my specific question to the European Affairs Commission in November. And I could count it. I justify the reasons why the Slovenian National Party will support discharge. But these are specific reasons, we've been writing them for three years. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not care about health within the parties, among the parties, not among government departments, exclusively the rights of Slovenk and Slovenes, Slovenian people, security and benefit and interests of the Slovenian people. That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna be. As far as the question of Croatia is concerned in particular, I will not prejudice it, because it seems to me that it is not entirely up to this debate. For the Slovenian National Party, he was, and will be, only and exclusively a representative of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, who will protect the interests of this country, the interests of the Slovenian people and protect the gains that this Slovenian nation has enjoyed, we all say, through the millenniums of desire. This, once again, has been pointed out by Minister Dimitri Ruple. The Slovenian national party makes it clear and clear that, in its opinion, the Ministers were not loyal to the Slovenian people by their decisions in their mandate. We say it clearly and loudly, we said it three years ago and we say it today. Besides, we're wondering if the minister could have worked autocraticly; I don't think so. I would ask myself if it would be you, colleagues and colleagues, whether this is a discharge and a mistrust just to the Minister - I am talking about his role and the role of foreign minister in the country, the Republic of Slovenia - or perhaps the whole government, or the work of this government, unless the Minister acted autonomously. I am not defending him because I said that the Slovenian National Party would support the discharge of the Minister for the reasons stated. I will show you again in this pile of over 30 initiatives and questions. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is the one who decides the fate of the Slovenian nation, and the National Assembly is the one who thinks what is right and what is wrong. And it is also the National Assembly that will defend its decisions in the future. Our decision, the decision of the Slovenian National Party, is perfectly clear and clear: we will support the discharge of Minister Rupl for all that we have found, wrote and disagreed in three years, as a result of today's unsettled Slovenia, I think that eight or nine issues with neighbouring Croatia, although we are in the European Union and NATO, do not have open access to the sea. And we could list a lot of other things that are unresolved. I'm not gonna repeat what I said. That's the reason. And it's fair to say what these reasons are. As for political and other stories and stories, the Slovenian National Party, forgive me, is not interested. Madam Minister, once again I say clearly and loudly, we will support the discharge for the reasons I have said and which are recorded in more than 30 questions. How, Mr. Minister, you have created your starting points in the talks, in support of Croatia, without any negotiating points with which you have formed them - this is likely to be the case with history.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is given to Janez Janša, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Mr Minister, Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues. The Prime Minister has sent to the National Assembly a proposal that does not have support in either the Slovenian public or support in that part of the international public that is monitoring the situation with us. We have sought in history similar cases where any Prime Minister, in any country, for similar reasons, wherever, in any state, we have not found a substitute for a minister and a comparison. Why is a replacement actually proposed? If we follow what Mr Rob wrote in this explanation, it is personal reasons and nothing else, so-called lost trust. I personally think it's basically a deep conceptual discrepancy here. And more or less, we're all aware of it and a little bit more later. But since it is formally said that the Minister has done well, that he has lost confidence, we have also heard this from the representatives of coalition parties today, but of course let us first perform in the arena that you drew by giving such an explanation. The argument submitted for the discharge of the Foreign Minister may be appropriate if the President of the Liberal Democracy mags. Anton Rop proposed the replacement of a member of the Executive Committee of the Liberal Democracy. Then this explanation would be appropriate. The leadership of the Liberal Democracy believes that it is necessary to go to Forum 21, any other political activity that is inconsistent with the policy of the Liberal Democracy, and those who do not agree to leave this leadership. Thus, I think it would be perfectly fine if we were here to discuss somewhere at a forum of Liberal Democracy in Rabbit Dobrava, TR3 or anywhere else. But this is the National Assembly and we have been given an explanation for the replacement of the Foreign Minister, which corresponds to the explanation for the replacement of a member of the Executive Committee of the Liberal Democracy. There is nothing in this explanation about whether the Minister has done well or not, anything about where the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister have gone apart when it comes to two key things that must be respected both by the Prime Minister and by the Foreign Minister. The first thing is respect for the Constitution and the laws.I ask the Prime Minister, which member of the constitution or which member of the law has violated the Foreign Minister, that a replacement should be made a few months before the end of the term of office. The second thing they both swore to is the welfare of Slovenia. They both swore to work for the welfare of Slovenia. I ask the Prime Minister: with what action did the Foreign Minister do something contrary to the welfare of Slovenia, and if so, why is this not indicated in the explanation? I also ask the Prime Minister, where did he get the power to change state delegations visiting other countries on his own? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to visit the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in a delegation where there was no foreign minister. Then the Prime Minister received an invitation to a public debate, and instead of cheering up the invitation, he became very angry when he saw the foreign minister's signature on the invitation, and the government decided without a decision that he should also go to the delegation. The Prime Minister does not have such powers under Slovenian law. Similarly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision to participate in the NATO summit in Istanbul and has also set up a delegation with a formal decision that exists. The Prime Minister has voluntarily withdrawn one of the members of the delegation from this Decision, even though he does not have those powers and has once again violated the rules he should have respected. The Slovenian delegation was the only one who was without an external minister at such an important meeting, and then the Slovenian public could also listen when the Prime Minister reported at that meeting and when he unhappily turned two sentences because he probably did not understand what was going on there. I'm sorry. The other thing that is extremely important about the explanation and nature of this debate and for the National Assembly in particular, because we are faced with the fact that we decide on something that I would not judge in terms of content and concept, is: Has the Minister, at this time, carried out the guidelines of the State Assembly on foreign policy or not? Is there any direction or direction for this national council or committee for international relations? Earlier, we had heard the angry president of this working body, who was once again an executioner, clearly thinks that, like 10 years ago, he will be rewarded again with a ministerial chair, but we have not heard from him any indication of a violation of any of the guidelines of the Committee on International Relations of this State Council which could be readmitted to the Foreign Minister. He read some interviews, faked words, insulted Slovenian voters and voters about definitions regarding Nate, and not a single substantive matter about what we want and should hear here. This is whether, in this mandate, there has been any distinction anywhere between the guidelines set by the National Assembly to recognised policies and the work of the Foreign Ministry or the Minister. Obviously, this discrepancy was not at any point, because otherwise, the distinguished Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs would have mentioned it because he is qualified for it and he receives a salary for it for four years. He didn't count any of the things. On the basis of this statement by the chairman of the Committee on International Relations, we can only conclude that the Minister has carried out the guidelines of the State Assembly in the field of foreign policy in this mandate, and the National Assembly has been very active here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Dear colleague Janš, I would just like to remind you that as a representative of the position of your parliamentary group, you do not dispute the position expressed by your predecessor, Jelko Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u34	I'm not paralyzing, I'm just finding out the fact, and that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Because he did not act as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, he presented the position of the Group of Members. And that doesn't detract from each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Mr Vice-President, in Mr Kacin's performance, half of the controversy with the performance of the Foreign Minister was defamed by his entire performance. I am not arguing with him, but I am just finding that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs here has not presented a single distinction between the guidelines adopted by the National Assembly or the competent working body and the Minister proposed for replacement today. The whole thing here is reduced to the feelings of the Prime Minister. And the feeling of the Prime Minister is that he can no longer trust the Minister. I believe that there have been such differences, I believe that there has been, we have heard how much correspondence there has been between them in this mandate, conflict and opposition. But if you've lasted four years together, it'd be good to have two more months. And that someone does not behave childishly when they see someone signed under an invitation to a public debate and propose a replacement, instead of taking a deal within the party if it is political differences. And today, the Prime Minister, who is also the Prime Minister of the Party, proposes to replace the Foreign Minister, who is still a member of his party and also a member of the party's leadership. And it would be really good for you to consider each other first, as I said, at any extended picnic in Rabbit's Landing or anywhere, and then the National Assembly gets tired of it. Two months before the election, I'm sorry, that's probably not even worth it. I have spoken to a number of diplomats and foreign statesmen in the last ten days, and I must say that no one understands why such a proposal is, why this replacement is, given that Slovenia has met just a few months ago two key phase objectives in the field of foreign policy and that there are people here who have done a lot, so today, or one of them proposed for a replacement. But let's just leave it. Mr. Rob says it's about trust. If trust is the category that is above the Constitution and the laws, even above the oath of work for the welfare of Slovenia, then I find here that, according to public research, this proposal by Mr Rope does not enjoy the confidence of the Slovenian public. On the contrary, the vast majority do not trust and oppose this proposal from the Prime Minister. And if Mr Rob so much as to put his trust, it would be right for him to give up unless he once took his trust in this way and again otherwise. And speaking of trust, I will also tell you my experience with Mr Robb, who speaks a lot about what the Prime Minister considers to be trust. At times, when the current topic of so-called deleted and when Minister Bohinc began to issue decisions without a legal basis, I had the initiative of a third party to want the Prime Minister to speak to me face-to-face. I've always been a talker, I've informed my closest associates and a coalition partner, and I went to this conversation. It seemed a little strange to me that they took me to the parish, and I didn't expect to meet the Prime Minister and liberal democracy in the parish, but he was there and we talked for an hour. I thought the Prime Minister had some idea of how to solve this problem, but there was no proposal, the Prime Minister asked me what we would do. I said that we do not make decisions and that we expect them to do something and stop making decisions without a legal basis. Anyway, the meeting didn't lead to anything, but it was a deal to keep it between the four eyes. The next day Mr Bajuk will come to me, saying that Mr Podobnik was with him and Mr Rob told him about this meeting and of course I will not say how he behaved. And next week, you could all read it in a editorial in Youth. And of course, it did not come from either the Slovenian Democratic Party or New Slovenia. So much for how the Prime Minister understands the word of trust used here as a key argument for replacing the Foreign Minister It is not good, as it is said, that there is great perversion in this darkness. I personally think that it has occurred between the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister and the majority of his party to conceptual differences, that this has started a long time ago, and that this is not a dispute, because in my opinion this would be normal, but that it is a difference in some of the key strategic directions for Slovenia, where overcoming this division to the opposition and position is essential. In Slovenia, we have achieved much in this mandate, or especially thanks to the current foreign minister, because many times we have been through this division. We have often disagreed with the current Foreign Minister, Mr Rupl, in this and in previous mandates. Many things were obvious, and that is what we have said. But when we agreed, we also said that, and when it came to the benefits of the country, we did so. This has been the case for such cooperation on the very broad theme of the European Union, with NATO. This is interesting when we listen to these details about the signing of the Vilnius Declaration and I also ask the Prime Minister, given that there was so much talk about how the signing of this Vilnius Declaration was harmful for Slovenia, why the government did not withdraw this signature. If you've been so fierce that you've criticized them and you're still criticizing them, why didn't you step out? But why didn't you say, "We've changed our minds," why didn't you say, "The minister misused his powers" if he did it on his own? No, no, no. Why, Mr. Prime Minister, did you go to the White House for reception as Prime Minister, a group that signed the Vilnius Declaration. That's where you went to take your pictures. So, the Foreign Minister here got them on his back and on his head, because he signed a statement when they shared flowers and prizes, you took pictures, you didn't stay home from the protest or anything. So much for trust and principle. And the question to others who have so much to say about the harmfulness of this statement. Slovenia is still a signatory, it is still considered. Why don't you step away from this, why don't you just say it back? Tell me it was a mistake. The new Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero said that there was a mistake when they went to Iraq and he called off the soldiers. That was before the election, and then he said it. All you do is talk, but don't do anything. By the way, the Prime Minister has been waiting months and months for an official invitation from the White House, and he's not coming. But he's still humbly waiting and hoping he'll be in front of the elections. And then I doubt that in the White House he will say that Slovenia does not support the Vilnius statement. I wonder if I'm gonna hear that. I don't think we will, because there won't be any visitors, even if there were. And then there was the next topic where the foreign minister saved the government's reputation, the maritime code. On a proposal from the opposition, this National Assembly has yet to change in due time the dictates of the maritime code. But the only one willing to negotiate with the opposition on the side of the government was the Foreign Minister. And then they aligned the text that this Parliament adopted with that. Everyone else in the government was buried in a position that was obviously to the detriment of Slovenia. The next topic was Croatia. In part, the Foreign Minister himself mentioned this. Shortly after the change of power in Croatia, I met with the new Croatian Prime Minister in Zagreb. Since it is clear that there has been a discussion of interstate matters, I have asked the foreign minister to send along with a professional from the foreign ministry who will make a note of it, because I do not want to talk about interstate matters differently than within an official line that this country has and that we are coordinating in this Parliament. And in this part of the conversation, when it came to these open issues, there was also a representative or someone from the foreign ministry who made a note received by both the foreign minister and probably the Prime Minister. And I thought I did the right thing. But what happened? Mr. Rob then saw the name of this professional from the foreign ministry on a list for a consular post, and he manually withdrew it to associate with the opposition. So much for trust and the state conduct of the Prime Minister, who is now proposing to replace the foreign minister. Before this debate, we have looked at the public research paid by the government. That's where the performance of individual ministries is measured. The latest survey available since the end of May is the last one available before the Prime Minister proposed the replacement of a well-known minister and, in this study, paid by the government itself, as the most successful ministry in the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assessed. And the Prime Minister has decided to replace exactly the minister who, according to the research he is paying for or paid for by the government, is the most successful. I come to the ministries that are rated the worst, for example for work, family, justice, internal affairs, the economy, not to say anything or anything for the best. I think that the Prime Minister would have made a substantial number of benefits if he had dealt with these portfolios, which have more or less failed, or with the resources that have completely failed with respect to the promises made by respected colleagues and colleagues four years ago, when you presented to the Slovenian public a coalition contract, where, among other things, you wrote that the main objectives of this cooperation are tolerance and more integration in Slovenia and an inclusive society and an open country. Today you are very manifesting an inclusive society, I must say, and patience and integration, but in this coalition agreement is a type of promise that you have made and that the ministries, which are generally considered to have failed, according to your own research, have failed. Four years ago, Mr Prime Minister, you promised that public spending would be up to 42% in this mandate. Last year, it was well over 43%, and 1% here is a huge sum. You promised that public debt must be settled between 35% and 40% of gross domestic product. Indeed, the entire mandate of the public debt increased. It was 1473 billion in September last year. A huge sum no one can imagine. But it didn't go down, but the whole term went up. You promised as the key to this government's rule, 4 to 5% economic growth. The first year of your government fell to 9.9% and last year it was 2.3%, the lowest in the history of Slovenia after independence. So it's not just that you haven't reached your goal. This key objective that you have promised, on which wages depend, the number of jobs, economic and general development, money for schools, kindergartens and everything else, because if there is no economic growth, it is none of this. This is where the government totally burned down. Once again lower economic growth than was promised. But it is not the proposed replacement of those who promised it, that the Prime Minister, who was then a finance minister, has resigned, but is now the Prime Minister, but proposes to replace the minister who was the most successful in this mandate. You promised to reduce the consumption of the country. During the reign of the Liberal Democracy or only in the last six years, the consumption of the State has doubled. In 1997, it amounted to 1,266 billion, and in September it was 2,454 billion. And all that money has to be made. To those who deserve it, Mr President, but you have promised 5,000 dollars of gross salary. But you yourself have increased the country's consumption once again in a few years. The government promised at the beginning of the mandate of the compensatory scheme. Mr. Kebra has been reminded of this many times. None of this happened. This coalition contract says you'll pass a law with compensatory schemes. Now that the health insurance company has raised the premiums, everyone else is suddenly at fault, except the government and the minister who did not, although this was promised at the beginning of the mandate. And now we listen to excuses. When we tabled an intervention against Mr Kebra, whose ministry is also considered to be one of the worst, the Prime Minister defended him vehemently. Nor has there been any mention of the minister's responsibility since he did not propose a law that would divide the burden of solidarity in health insurance. And insurance companies will raise premiums if they don't, otherwise there will be losses that will be borne by taxpayers again; because they will not be paid by the Prime Minister and even less by Minister Keber. It's irresponsible behavior. But we didn't hear any of that. The National Assembly has been discussing and the Slovenian public has been dealing for two weeks with the issue of the trust and mistrust of the Prime Minister to the most successful minister in public opinion, rather than dealing with real problems. I also want to know where the government party DeSUS was all those four years ago when there were no compensatory schemes. Why are you threatening to leave the government now? They would have warned the minister to file a bill, but there would have been no circus now; before the elections wave with it, it's a little bit like that, well [[...]] We would also point out that this media coverage of just a few events, in the last two weeks, is being used by the government for a wide range of background activities in the field of human resources policy. Real humane spells are taking place. Procedures are under way to appoint practically political people from government parties who are afraid of losing elections - for five years, it is said, for the entire mandate of the next government. If someone does bad work and tries to replace it later, they'll have to pay 12 million. You've adopted such regulations. Five thousand gross workers, their own staff, if someone were to be replaced, and 12 million tolars of severance, and that's all happening now in the background. Not to mention that we have voted so many times on the President of the Court of Auditors until this place has finally been selected by the personnel of the Liberal Democracy, who are now supposed to oversee the same party. The ministers who were presented here for this same speech a few months ago as the peaks of their profession and adjective and I do not know what are, of course, all already practically in Liberal Democracy. And government Members are appointed directors of various funds, the founder of which is the State of Slovenia, now before the end of their term of office. All of this is happening now, all of these events, if they are not already directly led by the Prime Minister, have his support, and he proposes to replace the minister who has been judged to be the most successful in this mandate in public opinion. As has already been said at the outset, the topic that is open to this explanation is very wide and it is a little odd that the National Assembly here has to deal with the situation in one party, even though it is the largest government party that has had to dress and dress in this country for 13 years. With regard to this party, which has received the most votes in the last elections, many have therefore thought, or I do not know why, that the country is owned, but not only by management, and of course they are also acting, it is necessary to establish this dark agenda with the opposition's proposal, but with a proposal to explain to the Prime Minister that it has again turned to the old ways or to the way it went in 1991. What is happening today is also part of this plant. The session began, of course, with backstage opposition to NATO membership, which came directly from parts of the Liberal Democracy. It continued its frenzying claims for damages to the so-called deleted and supporting former aggressors, continued with personnel clearances at all levels and reckless treatment of all positions that are possible. It ends with some conglomerate of corruption and clienteleism, in which in the last weeks, fish that stinks on their heads perform cosmetic repairs on their own tail. After changing the principle of Liberal Democracy two years ago, or not being unfair to many who disagreed, the main line in it changed so that this party, like 1991, became xenophobic again to Slovenia and intolerant to independence. The last expression of this intolerance is precisely this groundless proposal to replace the Foreign Minister. The Slovenian Democratic Party of the Prime Minister's proposal will not support it. But we suggest to the Prime Minister, with good faith, that he resign himself. The balance of his two-year government leadership is devastating for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Members and Members will now speak. First of all, I'm calling a magician. John Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Initially, I would like to make it very clear that the replacement of Minister Dimitri Rupl is a major mistake and a damage to this country. As a member of the Committee on International Relations, I must say that Minister Rupel has always followed the decisions, this committee and also the assembly, in many of the meetings we have held and a great deal of the work we have done. Proposal by the Minister-General of Mag. Toneta Ropa, who arrived on the eve of the biggest Slovenian holiday, was, in fact, a slap in the face of Slovenian independence. We did not understand it many and, above all, it was not understood by the diplomatic assembly accredited in Slovenia. This was not a good message for both the domestic public and the international public. We are mainly witnesses here to double the criteria. Minister Rupel attended the meeting of the Republican Assembly and is therefore punished, the Prime Minister peacefully goes to a forum where Slovenian capitalists are united, and this is, in fact, also in the public eye, somehow accompanied by approval. The expulsion of Minister Rupl from the government can somehow be linked or seen almost in the same way as the expulsion of the Slovenian People's Party as coalition partners from that government. When we reached our objectives in some way: entry into the European Union, the union After we negotiated in the process of negotiating for very delicate matters in the European Union in the field of agriculture, in the area of rural development, when the Slovenian People's Party in the government was needed as a partner of the European People's Party, when we achieved this when the Prime Minister signed the Treaty in Greece on 16 April last year, it was clear from then on that they did not need us anymore, at least some. And it happened, as I said, an exorcism from the government. Colleagues and colleagues, because of such work, due to lack of dialogue, due to lack of respect and respect for diversity in this policy in particular, because of the self-prudentity of some, especially those who received a higher disease in this government, Slovenian policy has drifted away from reality. Slovenian policy has lost touch with reality and reality. Primarily and exclusively, the arguments of power prevail, and today it has been said that it is only to watch who is with us and who is against us. This is not good for this country, because we are too few to separate, we need to connect. I am sure that this will not go forward, and the electorates and voters are always right and will make the right decision in autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to welcome other government representatives, and it seems they are too tired to be among us, so I cannot welcome them. This meeting could have an address, namely, "There's been a robbery in the Foreign Ministry" and now I wonder where the Minister of Police is to review this matter. He's not here. On the other hand, this meeting is a measure of our political culture, discussion and the state of pluralism. Many of you have already talked about things that were worth talking about, and I will talk a little more at home, and I will focus on this home market. An overview of what will happen in what way we have received in a communication from the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, in which he outlined the reasons, in fact proposals for the discharge of the Minister. Dr. Rupl and I have known each other for years. We were in opposite positions, but always respectful and pluralistic. When I read this letter to the Prime Minister, I was judged. The letter, the reasons, and the tone of this letter were like that of the rule of undemocratic communism, with all the hatred that the entire young and old elite still endures to all other thinking citizens. Nor did Mr. Prime Minister have the human dignity to acknowledge the great credits that Dr. Rupel has had since the beginning of Slovenian independence. If Mr President of the Prime Minister thinks that many things have been done wrong, he should have said them, but that is not what he said before, not now. All this looks like the whole thing is run by the police department. I've had this impression for a long time that this government has been afraid of every shadow, kind of like, the shadows have to be removed, they're dangerous to us, so we should darken the sun. And that's done in every way possible. However, the entire sun cannot be stopped, nor on the LDS side. So what? We have a praetorically regulated and protected government, government parties, jobs, and also a revolution. In this last war, the genocide of Slovenian people in mass graves has been 300, and for 60 years there has been a silence of the time, places, names and graves of those who have been murdered. So this is also the 60-year torture of relatives killed by this silence. Although we do not know, we imagine that even animals have a more human attitude towards their dead than the Slovenian government. Today we have heard quite a few group of inspired speeches. As there have been more and more of them lately, along with a large number of Slovenian people, I hope and believe that they will soon be over. This meeting is also outstanding in the European sense in terms of manner and content. This is by way of washing the dirty laundry of government parties and, according to the content, congregational accounting with a former colleague. The man who comes and who lives outside can't understand. It will be interesting to see who and how this lynching or beating will be rewarded. That's why I don't even think about voting for the discharge of Dr. Ruple from the Foreign Ministry. I end with this: to live the political culture and pluralism that we so badly need in our country and I hope, despite all the fact that Dr. Rupel will also be able to contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My word is Irmo Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Dear Minister Dr. Rupel, fellow Member, fellow Members! Regardless of the fact that I have had a personal conversation with you, Mr Rupel, I have repeatedly expressed my personal sympathy for many of your works that I have had the opportunity to read, but today what we are doing here is a matter of another relationship. That is why, in my debate, I will focus mainly on my view of this and on the fact that I will talk about the relationship between the Prime Minister and ministers in modern parliaments. We have to pour ourselves some clean wine. That's the way it is everywhere, and it's got to be with us. Trust is the basis when the minister's mandate is proposed and in confidence is also the basis when he proposes a discharge. And it seems to me, Sir Rupel, that you obviously don't understand this or you don't want to understand it. This also points to the fact that you said in your debate today that you had been given a mandate in the elections. Yes, there you have been given a mandate as a Member and you have been given a mandate to serve as a Member, as well. But it's not the same as the trust that the mag gave you. Anton Rop, trusting you to serve as the Foreign Minister on his team. Not only the role of foreign minister, that you are a prisoner, an important member in the implementation of the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a different kind of trust. And in run-off parliamentary democracy, the minister resigns if the mandate holder no longer trusts him. But then, with all that we have heard here today, and especially after what you have said to Mr Rupel, it is a fundamental question that I am asking myself, what we are doing here today. Therefore, I will put my debate in a completely different way and start with the question to you, Sir Rupel: Why didn't you just give up on your own? In your debate, you have expressed your reservations at least 50 times to the Prime Minister and to the policy of this government. You told his person that he was inexperienced to rule out and not include, indirectly attributed to him even Stalinist methods. You listed very precise sins for two years of his term as Prime Minister. Does it not seem normal and moral to you, Sir Rupel, that a minister who has such serious reservations to the Prime Minister would have given up a long time ago? For two years, you have brought your concerns and reservations to us personally, to the politics of this government. So I ask you: where is your morality, with which moral principles can you justify sitting, I will say, provocatively in the ministerial chair despite all the manure you have poured out on the magma today. Robbery? Would you not at least save us a few hours of this show, and at least today, after all that you've revealed to us in an extremely long opening address, would you not give us a few hours of this show, if I could name all these pre-election statements that you are hearing here today and have nothing to do with the fundamental relationship that should be between you and the Prime Minister? I can only find that the Prime Minister has been in recent times, not because of his participation in the Republican Assembly, but because of the reasons for his dismissal, but by the way, most of you have stressed this as a fundamental reason, but he has recently lost confidence in you. You, Sir Rupel, have taught us today that you lost him long ago, two years ago when you started working together. And I don't want to, Mr. Rupel, trust the political commentator I've been reading and has estimated that you are a great man of little principles. Another problem, respected Mr Rupel, whom I would like to touch, is your self-recognizance of your own policies as moderate, patient and thoughtful, and in your performance you protested against any exclusion because you considered them to be an old overstepped concept. This is where you judge for yourself, Mr. Rupel, Rupl's policy. Also in this work, Mr Minister, a simple question or a few questions to you and the whole Slovenian public. Is the return of the highest national medal to the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, to the "Bat" bag a sign of tolerance? And I'm not surprised that today we heard applause from those who did it with you. Is the count of press articles that reportedly attack the minister - about 300 of them, as you said - a sign of tolerance? Is the discreditation of NATO’s opponents with negative signs a sign of tolerance? I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, of the syntagmo of "harmful association with the opposition". Do you remember - I am reading a lot of these articles myself - when, in the words of the year before, you have not yet objected to any exclusion, you requested the exclusion of Mr. Janez Supporter from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I repeat, "for the sake of harmful association with the opposition," was your argument at the time. Whether we can believe in all of this that you are a proponent of patient and thoughtful policies, or more likely than many people in this room today believe that you want to present the Prime Minister of Mags with such self-esteem. Anton Rope as impatient as a thoughtless man. But we know, I know that mag. Robbery doesn't count the articles that say the press are attacking him; that he's a mag. Robbery has also spoken respectfully with opponents of joining NATO and that the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, has been patiently transferring your unrealistic findings to his account for a long time. After you've introduced yourself today, all I can say is that I kind of admire the iron nerves of mags. A robbery that is due to the State-doing reasons stated today [[integration into the European Union, entry into NATO, challenging internal political situation]] I've been putting up with your obvious indiscretions for so long. Kacin's colleague was even worse driving drivers, he called it "the prodigree in the government". And I believe for myself that non-majority or health policy cannot and will never benefit the welfare of Slovenian citizens and citizens. And all these statements that are supposed to mark the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which Dr. Dimitrij Rupel himself did not believe and did not believe it most today, the allegations were extremely severe, severe in his work, when he calls it your good friend Mr. Janša, that on this side we are xenophobic to the ceremony, that we do not believe in independence, that you even say, deleters, that this is the point where we made a fiery turn on our side, but you listened well to Dr. Janez Drnovšk on the day of Statehood, after 13 years of independence. Every policy made mistakes. If they found out they weren't intentional, nobody said that if they found out, they had to be fixed. But if someone at that moment realized it would be good for Slovenians and Slovenes to get them into two fields, to divide them into those who believe that a small group is threatening them, as it was today to hear with great financial demands, and so on, where should the compromise, respected Dr. Rupel, be here? Fixing a mistake is a compromise. This has to happen. This will happen in this Slovenian space because we are a legal, civilized, modern country. And it's not really obvious that the government is xenophobic to separate. There are certain issues that need to be addressed, decided and easily resolved. And sometimes we were sorry that you weren't with us, but that doesn't mean, dear Dr. Rupel, I was involved in the compromise policy myself, and it's not that we didn't want it, that we didn't offer hands, that others rejected it because it was a comfortable topic, instead of presenting a programme on how to take Slovenia to a beautiful future. And, Your Honor, Dr. Rupel, I am truly very sorry that you're involved in what I'm supposed to say to be a non-principal definition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Igor Štemberger has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I myself was among those eight Members who, at the time of the signing of the villa declaration, requested the replacement of Mr Dimitri Ruple, the Foreign Minister, almost a year and a half ago. We were unsuccessful at the time, because we did not collect even ten signatures as needed to be able to discuss interpretation in the National Assembly at all. At that time, the Villan Declaration made Slovenia one of the American allies who saw the solution to the Iraqi crisis in a war effort. Today, it is probably clear to everyone that the solution has been missed because the war effort has claimed many victims on both sides and the daily loss of lives has not yet seen the end. Our entire government, however, interpreted this statement differently than the entire world at the time. It later turned out that in fact the entire Slovenian Government of the Foreign Minister in this action supports it and that this signature was in line with our foreign policy. The question is whether this was sincere, or if it was only a violation then to the US administration before Slovenia entered NATO. However, the entire Slovenian government supported the minister in this. All ministers who are still sitting in the government today have taken responsibility for this, and it is therefore unfair for the government to attribute this to the Foreign Minister alone today. There's been a lot of other things going on between then and today. For example, there was a famous diplomatic academy, an affair in which the foreign minister taught us very unsavourily through the media that the minister should not simply attack himself in such a way that he should not be accused of being in some way untouchable. Such statements are all as useful as before, at least from the point of view of the fight against corruption and clienteleism, which we have repeatedly discussed in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Well, it's nothing again. Nor was that nearly a good reason for the Minister's replacement. However, there was a good reason for his dismissal that he did not wait for the Prime Minister of Mr Rob in London, but that he had previously fled home to a meeting, a convention called the Republican Assembly. This really isn't, and there can't be a reason to replace the minister. I will support the proposal for the discharge of Foreign Minister Ruple. However, it is not for any reason that he will fly today, but for reasons that should have caused him to fly more than a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. France Cuckoo gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Well, in such a situation, one wonders at first why Minister Rupla is suspending or wanting to be suspended. And many times I wondered, as my predecessor had just said, when it was time for Slovenia to sign the contract and to join the Vilnius Group, it was understandable, there was a reason and young people opposed it, they proposed an interpretation. Today and then, of course, the government persists in this position, building on this position. And as has already been said, this is certainly part of Slovenian policy, which he found in the State Assembly in people's support. And when I am looking for reasons why the prime minister is now replacing the minister, of course the first sentence that is the most difficult one: Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has repeatedly questioned his loyalty to the government in recent months, although legitimate private political engagement in internal political matters. So in the last few months. The previous events that my predecessor cited do not have a role to play, but in recent months. That is, with private political engagement in internal political matters. This is certainly what he is saying, and also in Mr Rope's explanation, it is the minister's participation in the public tribunal at Cankar's home. And if that is the reason, then we ask ourselves, what is the reason for this participation, because it probably goes to Cankar's home sometime, the very entry into Cankar's home is probably not the reason, because it goes to concerts as well, and the participation in public discussions is probably not the reason, as it goes to other occasions and is involved in public debate. What's the reason? Similarly, Prime Minister Ropna went to another meeting, of course he went undercover, he was hiding in some way, he went to bow down to a forum in the establishment and to the president of the forum he went to worship. I don't mind. I don't mind if he went and hid. If he's embarrassed, that's his business. But what's the difference, even if it's compared and it's being politicized with a public tribunal that was in Cankar's home, like a political matter? What was the difference? Mr. Rob went undercover, he was hiding, Mr. Rupel went out in the open, playing open cards, that's what he is. Is this the difference, or is it the inadmissibility to say what he thinks and to show the cards he plays? This is probably the difference between two approaches in politics. Maybe that's it. And if we take this notion a little more seriously, that it is disloyal to the government, then we probably see that it is disloyal to a political position, to a political one. And Mr Rupel also said some things, now that he was defending himself, he had never said anything wrong before and refrained from the government, but he wrote: "I have recently proposed for a place abroad someone they saw with Janša. The government couldn't get through because he wasn't in the nickname "ours." This colleague is at work with us, he is a professional and has the right to compete for all cities." Maybe we're closer to the cause now. He disagreed with some exclusive recruitment policy, a policy that has been so very typical of a government party lately. You know how the three ministers of recent times, especially Mr Kopač, Mr Maramor, Bohinc, as the media quoted last month, have demanded that the procedure for the appointment of new state-runs be initiated, I will not say, secretaries, because they will no longer be, but the CEOs, who will be in the new government for five years, whatever they will, have the positions of leadership. With this, of course, these ministers wish to establish a human resources structure for the future. Taking into account how this mandate worked, I am a little more familiar with health care than the exchange of a number of hospital directors, of course, it began by replacing the Director of the insurance company, Mr Miklavčič, or by replacing Mr Kosher with Mr Miklavčič, who has been pulled from the pension spheres. What has this human resources replacement accomplished? Nothing but that the loss of a health insurance agency has risen from nothing to over 50 billion in these years. A replacement of the oncology institute came in, not to mention the consequences, the replacement of the director of the clinical centre "as a criminal situation" which has not been proven so far, with regard to the operating tables. And the result? The loss of a clinical center in this time period has increased to over one billion. But it doesn't matter. They line up everywhere at all levels where there are not yet 100% of the LDS personnel recruitment, literally human resources clearance. In recent months, the government and all ministers need to clean up quickly and ensure their personnel. It may be this, however, that the Minister is no longer a member of the LDS, that even within the government's staff, it is necessary to clean up. First remove the Slovenian People's Party and then remove individuals. Some impatience occurs in this party. I don't mind the customer's view that the LDS party is becoming increasingly exclusive, human resources increasingly exclusive and impatient, locked up in itself to plunge into its nothingness. I don't mind. It bothers me that the government party is such that the party that cuts bread for me is all the residents and my children that that party becomes. I don't mind if some other party who isn't responsible for this society that doesn't shape this country's politics to become one. All I care about is that such a party is in government and running government policy. And I have a right to be disturbed. It's okay. On the other hand, it is perfectly normal for the Prime Minister to say that I no longer want this minister. There's nothing indisputable about that either. Okay, he suggests he doesn't like it, it's nothing bad. But to implement a policy, exclusive, closed itself, both in the economic field, banking, even in health care and at all levels. This is what prevents me from supporting such a flower in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister, to the other present, Members and Members of Parliament! When I received this proposal to resolve Dr. Ruple's foreign minister by the Prime Minister, I must be honest to say that I asked myself the question why this meeting was needed. However, after the events that are taking place today, I see that it is probably right, after all, that this meeting is not possible for the Prime Minister, given the explanation he has given us, to have the right to replace the Minister on his own. The fact is that the Minister is being changed exclusively and in particular because of his voice of political convictions, certainly not because of any of his official mistakes - nowhere, not in his explanations, nor in the representations of the views of the Group of Members, not his Group of Members, the Liberal Democracy. And that's why I think it's right that today is the meeting. In this proposal, the Prime Minister is in total violation of Article 39 of the Constitution, which states: "All are guaranteed freedom of expression, speech, public appearances, the press, other forms of public information and expression. Everyone can freely gather, receive and spread consciences and opinions..." and so on. Minister Rupel did not sign as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but as a person, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, at the invitation of the Assembly for the Republic. And in that, I think the basic problem is perception. And here I am worried. Here I am concerned about the way politics is perceived, which has become increasingly dominant in Slovenian society lately. Today it has been said many times, it is about reducing the search for consensus, reducing the search for dialogue, it is about frank polarisation in Slovenian society. That's what I think is bad. Priors have already said how this cleaning began with the exclusion of the Slovenian People's Party, and now it continues with the exclusion of individual ministers. Of course, by expelling someone from respecting the will of the people in this country. It is not easy, colleagues and colleagues, if this National Assembly this April 4th called on voters and voters to go to a referendum, the government, the government minister and the Prime Minister to make it clear that they will not respect the will of the people. It's something in the foundation, in the base wrong to perceive our democracy. No one was given a mandate to walk people's will. And I am sure that this is also the basic problem, the main problem of today's session and also today's subject matter. The search for consensus, the search for dialogue, the respect for people's will, of course, sank. We need to look again for these important values and draw them back on track. Of course, I already criticised the then coalition treaty in April 2001 and distanced myself from it because it was, in many cases, unconstitutional. You know what has also been written in this coalition treaty, which of course still exists; that government parties will do their utmost not to set up an investigative commission. If anything had occurred in these four years, we would not have investigated it, we would have confused it under the carpet, under the table, because during this period we are in power. And many more have accumulated and continued in these years. Then of course arrogant in this sense, we have someone in the government coalition to help us change the constitution. That's why. No, an improper perception of democracy and, of course, the allocation of mandates, colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] [[...]] Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u49	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! I also ask you, Sir Rokavec, to state the right things or to come to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Madam President! I have cited the right things, even in accordance with the law and also the Slovenian Constitution. Article 82 of the Constitution states that the Member is not bound by any instructions. In the coalition contract, you explicitly prohibited certain constitutional possible activities of Members and Members. This was a dictatorship for the adoption of constitutional changes, Mr Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u52	See, this is a key problem and also a problem that we need to tackle more widely in Slovenian society, that someone who receives a mandate in elections does not get it so that he can do whatever he wants with this mandate, regardless of what is also written in this blue book, which is called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or legislation, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the Government, etc. And today it has been repeatedly said that the Prime Minister has repeatedly violated the Government's rules of procedure in this mandate. In the case of deleted persons, we warned him ourselves in the parliamentary group when he exceeded his powers when he issued a document of coordination between all the parties in the national assembly as a document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which of course was not previously agreed upon or adopted at the level of the entire government. But it's just one marginal thing. That's what we're talking about. Of course, I cannot imagine anything else in today's theatre as the intention of the Prime Minister to try to clean everything up in this government in time for elections in order to ensure that such documents, constitutions, laws and so on will not be hindered. It is said that there will be no obstacle to achieving the goal of abuse. That's what I'm worried about. For this reason, the National Assembly should probably reject this proposal today, as it calls on the proposal to replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Rupl, where it respects Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where, of course, in a normal democratic society, the right to freedom of expression should be guaranteed to every citizen and, in particular, to views. But look, the problem is something else. This invitation to the Assembly for the Republic states that the Assembly of the Republic can be formed after this year's elections into a victorious coalition. Here I would draw attention to an unacceptable statement by the Prime Minister. Someone who is still in the coalition government thinking about how to form a better coalition after the elections is already doomed to act against the current government. Yeah, well, I think it's tough. In coalition governments, this is normal because it is made up of several political parties. But if the government is formed by only one party, then that's another question. Of course, I will not accept this proposal. I will not accept this proposal for the resolution of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, either, because we are literally witnessing in the recent staff proposals of the Prime Minister the return of the Yugoslavs through the open door and the exercise of the independence of our country. We should really think about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. The events of the last days and today's debate in the National Assembly would not be dramatic. Even less so, he would attribute some historical or even devastating consequences to our further development. Nothing very dramatic or special is going to happen. The government coalition will only use one of the tools or instruments of parliamentary democracy. I will also support the proposal of the Prime Minister of Magi myself. Mr Anton Ropa and voted in favour of the resolution of Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are witnessing a very lively political development. This is also logical, as we recently elected our representatives to the European Parliament for the first time, and in early autumn we will also elect the 90th National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we felt the pre-election atmosphere in the country and in particular in the National Assembly at the end of last year and not until today. Since then, the opposition has wanted to create a sense of emergency in the country, with constant manoeuvres, from interpretations to referendums and extraordinary meetings, and to show that the ruling coalition is unable to lead the countries to the normal conclusion of its mandate. If it is to judge by the extremely low participation in the last elections and, of course, by the results for the European Parliament, the opposition, as such, has succeeded in bringing the policy and elections to the voters and voters. Our responsibility, the responsibility of the government coalition, which still has a large enough and convincing majority in the National Assembly, is that, in the interests of the State and its citizens, it works smoothly until the end of the regular term. In order to refresh our memory and your historical memory, however, I have to look four years ago, at the time of the Bajuk government or at the time of the pre-election year 2000. From the announcement of the 10 Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party in mid-March 2000 from the Drnovška government until the appointment of the right-wing government with a splintered majority in the National Assembly, four months have passed, and if we count the time of the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, it took a dynamic political life in the country of eight months. Of course, the political situation was not settled until after the October elections, and this year will certainly not be any different. Your Honor! When I first heard about the initiative or invitation of the Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to the public tribunal of the Republican Assembly, which was also signed by the opposition champions Mr Janez Janša of SDS and Dr Andrej Bajuk of New Slovenia, I suspected that something would happen in the coalition. The dominant feature of 26 signatories is that they are dominated by the prominent party names of the right political province. Among them are former ministers of the Bajuk government. The assembly for the Republic, which the founders say could develop into a victorious coalition, is therefore in an express pre-election function and a product of the parties which make up the coalition of Slovenia. Unfortunately, this is another contribution to the separation rather than to the integration of people and the search for common solutions. From this point of view, the Convention for the Future of Slovenia, which has been convened every so long in the Presidential Palace by the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, can play a greater role. Under such circumstances, the Prime Minister, of course, could not remain indifferent. Today, many labels have been etiquetteed to the Prime Minister and his conduct has even been compared with the political practice of the former party in the 1970s. But when I listened to Dr Dimitri Ruple's performance today, I can't help feeling that I actually listened to the leader of the opposition's performance in this country and not to the performance of a minister leading or leading one of the state-run ministers. For home reading, I warmly recommend a Saturday column by Miha Kovac entitled "Ladies and gentlemen, have you forgotten?".. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister, colleagues and fellow Members. Of course, the Prime Minister has every right to propose the Minister's replacement if he so decides. However, it would be appropriate for liberal democracy to possibly wash this dirty laundry that you are washing here in front of the Slovenian public today, wash it somewhere else, if not on any picnic that Rožnik might have and would have solved it in a different way. It is also difficult for me to agree that the main argument for replacing the Minister should be his participation in a symposium, a meeting. The Prime Minister could also make other arguments, such as a failed foreign policy on Croatia or something like that. Well, he didn't do it. The main argument is this, and on the other hand we can hear and we can read that the Prime Minister attended meetings where Forum 21 was spoken and set up. In the end, the President of this National Assembly, Mr Pahor, was also present at the Assembly for the Republic. That means you'll replace him for the same reason. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have had many affairs recently, since the Liberal Democracy has been in power, if I mention only some of the SIB, ORION, Zbiljski Gaj, Sicura, Kranjska kranjnica, Trnovo Hospital, Operations Tables, today mentioned, government aircraft, ELAN, Insurance Office Triglav, unresolved case, so-called Friday case, agricultural land, one of the last connected to the LDS Group leader, and Mr Prime Minister has never proposed a replacement of any of the ministers. I would even hope to claim that someone may have made progress in all these matters to some ministerial office. Of course, you cannot explain this differently as a Democrat, even as Mr Rupel said today that there is indeed a democratic deficit in this country. And since Mr Gaber is now among us, I will say only one small case, which has marked one situation locally very much, but of course the matter is more widely known and has consequences and affects everyone else. I've already talked about how the principal's appointment at Kapel's primary school took place. She got the consent of the collective, got the consent of the council of the institution, but didn't get the Minister's consent without explanation. And what happened? Clearly, there is a need to say several times in this country that something would change. And what happened next? The Radenski Municipal Council, where most parties called themselves the ruling coalition in this House, has replaced its candidate or member in the institution's world because he did not vote properly in secret elections. And now they've fixed the matter so much that they've put it back in the V.D. the principal of the person who did not receive as many votes in the collective as the person who did not receive the consent of the minister. This is just one example of how democracy works in this country and how this government and the ruling coalition imagines regulating our common affairs. And that's not good. This is, of course, a small local case, but it has a very wide impact, for anyone who reenacts to a new function is warned how it can happen to him. I don't have time to describe more broadly the feelings of this candidate who's been through this. Mr Rob here today before the National Assembly and, of course, in front of the Slovenian public, pointed out the many successes of this government. He said that one of the biggest successes of the government and the ruling coalition is favourable economic growth. However, as we look at this economic growth, the differences between regions are increasing in Slovenia. According to the Employment Office, only last year, the LDS won the European Parliament elections, left, moved about 2,000 people, active people. The situation is similar in Posavje, also in Podravje, in the Savina region and in the Gori region. Furthermore, says the Prime Minister, we have a very good social policy. On the second page, we can read that more and more modern poverty is being called, that people do not earn enough to survive, that with 70, 75,000 wages they cannot survive, when schools are becoming more expensive when more expensive health care is to be hoped for, and in fact it is. And perhaps I would mention here that if the ruling coalition had adopted a law on compensatory schemes, we would not be discussing here today that compulsory insurance should be increased, and DeSUS would not have this opportunity, but he did participate in the last pension reform and then, as DeSUS, adopted this reform of pension legislation as a rescue and visionary. Today, even the president of Slovenian pensioners, Mr Gobzek, admits that pensions are far behind in salary growth and that pensioners at this time - I say this because of the public, and people also know - have lost two pensions or in money over 100 billion Slovenian tolars. The solution would, of course, be in additional insurance. But how can someone who earns 70,000 dollars a month pay extra insurance? Mr President praised the excellent wage agreement in the public and private sectors. A while ago, we were able to read what some directors in public institutions deserve, much more than ministers. I don't know if this agreement is actually so good that it can happen. Mr President also said that no one can take credit for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. I agree with him, but of course I am surprised that only representatives of the ruling coalition spoke at all the national celebrations. Let me finish. I think that Mr External Minister Rupel has realized that this train he has embarked on is going in the wrong direction; that the policy of exclusion, division, disqualification, arrogant voting does not actually lead anywhere. I think he has very well pointed out that in the countries that are members of the European Union, political parties cooperate with each other in a different way than in our Parliament; that even the close-to-the-right coalition does not behave to the opposition as we can experience it in the Slovenian Parliament. The opportunity to correct this will soon be before us, and I think that Slovenian citizens and citizens will also understand what you are doing today by replacing the ruling suit in Slovenia and thus contributing a little to the normality of the situation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Really, please, the election campaign starts in September, and we have to. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Thank you for your courtesy! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw attention to the item on the agenda. On the agenda there is no question of the confidentiality or non-trust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Today, the question of what are the reasons why President Rob proposed the discharge of the foreign minister was often raised. The text of the proposal must have been very cheaply written, and in particular a lot of what is hereafter, of course from a second point of view, said Mr Minister himself. If an untraceable or untapped listener of this debate here in Parliament would have listened to this, he would probably have thought that the matter was reversed and that someone was trying to resolve President Rob and not the other way around. This was what it looked like, and this was also the way the discussion was going on. The last is, in fact, no longer the current question of whether or not Mr Rupel will remain an external minister, but everything is focused on what the Prime Minister has the main sins. Unfortunately, this matter has turned into this side. In fact, in some way your human way could easily explain this story. You can also do it in a life, in a sports way, say, in a football way. Now that we have finished the European Championship, we are well aware of that. Each team has a lot of players and has to play the game. In each team there can also be more players who have a long-standing reputation for good footballers, good players, good "golgeters" if we want, but sometimes the form falls. Sometimes it even happens that someone gives a carpool too much, and sometimes even happens to shoot his own network by mistake. And what does a coach do this time? Nothing much can think about what the mental state of the player is, whether these are ideological reasons that lead to such behavior, it must be replaced at the moment, even if it is five minutes before the end of the game. And before this dilemma, President Rob, and this proposal, he sent us to Parliament. Unfortunately, and this introduction has shown, and the Minister's explanation of her work has shown that the contradictions between the Prime Minister and the Minister are such that together they cannot see the end of this government's mandate. He just decided to get rid of it, because the minister didn't make the decision on his own if they couldn't get along so well. Of course, this player, who was replaced before the end of the game, will still remain in the club or team anals written as one of the best players of all time, perhaps writing that he was sometimes a little introverted, yet with great credits for the fame and success of this club. And we all agree with that, and therefore those questions, or the mockery of why we can praise the minister as much as we try to resolve him. That's the whole joke. At this moment, the Minister and Prime Minister are not compatible in many areas and therefore this proposal is before us. I have listened carefully to some of the discussions, and I must say that there have also been a whole lot of these untruths or half the truths that I hope President Rob will tell himself. Let's just say he objected to the Vilnius statement. That's not true. Find evidence that he has ever criticized and attacked the Minister for Signature of the Vilnius Declaration at any time and anywhere. It just wasn't there. He may have given too little support to anyone, but he did not speak negatively about it. Before that, I also received information that it was also that someone could not go to diplomatic work because it was not ours, but the President would talk about it later. I hope he talks about it too. I don't understand. In this debate, I do not understand, for example, the anger of the champion of the largest opposition party, that this is happening to us today. In fact, he should be happy because he is doing well, and even in some ways I am convinced that he was a whisperer of at least some of the actions that led to this situation today. And let me finish. Don't let them talk to me mainly from the party of Slovenian Democrats about internal democracy in the LDS. Let them remember how many presidents of the party committees were resolved only by the words of the President. And lastly, I must also say what is on my mind to say, because one is spoken in public and the other is spoken in private contact. A very important representative of this biggest opposition party said to me almost like this: "You know what if our Janez minister did what he did to your thief, he wouldn't have done it long ago." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It seems that Mr Prime Minister, Mr Rop is already ashamed of the unworthy arguments he has made about replacing the Minister. Otherwise, as is normal in European parliaments, I would sit here and listen to arguments and reasons. He doesn't want to do that, and he doesn't want to defend his arguments against the public either. Madam Vice President! I would ask that you invite Mr Prime Minister to have some respect for this State Assembly and to listen to this debate. When Mr Ašič spoke about the goal in football; I am sure that Mr Rob killed the carpool in national interests, in the interests of the state. In addition, he misunderstood last year's EU and NATO referendums this year. At last year's referendums, Mr. Secretary has received an absolute confidence. In the European elections, the Liberal Democracy, together with DeSUS, lost half the electoral body, a total mistrust. And as has already been mentioned here, with such mistrust, some European Prime Ministers have resigned. The arithmetic of Europe is changing as a result of the elections. Our Prime Minister is doing something else. It reintroduces the spirit of the Dolomite declaration into Slovenian space. Anyone who thinks freely and freely can no longer be a member of the Slovenian government. What is this, a ghost? The programme and the pursuit against intellectuals may not be of interest if it only happens within the LDS. However, these are implications in Slovenia, on the European dimensions of Slovenia. And it's something that needs to be protested and imagined. Instead of imagining at this point what is happening to pensioners, when, in fact, the government's green light is promised only biologically rigid laws, no longer being treated to act where it is necessary to act, but a smoke undertaking is being made, as if foreign policy is a successful issue in this country, the great success of Slovenian foreign policy. This is a problem for your government today. The retirement population is interested in whether you will do something, not allowing the mutual and others to give up or take advantage of them, that there is no intergenerational solidarity, that the government has not done or that the minister has not made equal schemes to avoid thinking about them. This is not what you do, you deal with lustration, polarization of Slovenian space. What you've been saying so far is something bad, it's a virtue now. And it says in the papers that this is a virtue, today polarization is necessary. See, the minister's main sin so far was the signing of the Vilnius Declaration. Either alone or our client might be able to pour it out for populism reasons, because that's it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the Slovenian public. [[...]] We were doing state-of-the-art. Thank God, Mr Pahor, the President of Parliament, too, said, would have done the same as Mr Rupel, in an interview in the Saturday Work Annex last week. But among other things, Mr. Prime Minister says it is not state-of-the-art; it is wrong to change a successful foreign minister three months before the elections. But you're doing exactly that and you're lustrating and Drnovska and Pahor, Mr. Pahor himself said you kicked him out of your party in Strasbourg. This has been made transparent in front of the Slovenian public and you are also extorting a successful foreign minister. I believe from your breakfast point of view Minister Rupel still has a lot of major sins for your views. One thing is for sure is that he brought positive changes to the government for Slovenian minorities. Mr Rupel was able to neutralize the destructive effects of the former Secretary of State Frank Jury's actions against representatives of the Slovenian minority in Italy and against Slovenian national interests. The former Minister, the predecessor, despite the indignation of the Slovenian minority, has repeatedly said that he sent this Secretary of State as a liaison with Rome. Despite being warned, and I will quote Mr Paravela again, 5.12.1998, Mr Paravel as an important Italian publicist says: "Franko Juri was a member of a group of young communist leaders in Slovenia who were approached by Italian intelligence services through the transnational radical party Mark Parel". I hope they won't threaten to sue me again if I quote what the Italian publicist wrote. Mr Rupel allowed this major sin to break such levers in Slovenian politics. I believe you still have such a head of sins. He once took a stand against the south-nostalgia, against the view of the past. The campaign for the future has become something bad today on your part. Participation in the debate on the future of Slovenia is a major sin. Let's think about where you're taking this Slovenia, what your government is going to be like now after you're expelling intellectuals, when you're expelling reasonables, when you're eliminating freedom of thought. This could also be the beginning of the darkness. And these questions are extremely serious, and I hope you will think before today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sponik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I had previously heard a comparison about football, because our great attention in these days has been focused on this most important sideline thing in the world, and it seems to me that the comparison was somewhat wrong. I mean, what kind of situation are we in? In my opinion, we are just before the end of the game, an extension so to speak. The Prime Minister is not a coach, and above all he is not a coach and a judge together. That's what it says, we're in a situation where the coach has already replaced three players and he doesn't have a chance to change, and he can't give a red card. Only a judge can do that. And right here is this wrong comparison, the Prime Minister is not a chancellor, he is not a judge who would give a red chart, he decides a national assembly, because here the ministers swore, in this place, the ministers did not swear to the Prime Minister. It is true that the issue of our constitutional arrangements is opened here, but when a person listens to debates and remembers events a few years ago, he is quite calm that we do not have a chancellor model in Slovenia, then we would become ministers of the Chancellor's prisoners, his prisoners. For Slovenian political character it would be bad and it is good that we have not changed the Slovenian Constitution on this site. This debate today, which is linked to a proposal for a solution and speaks of loyalty to the government, is also, in my opinion, a debate on intra-party democracy. There will be no misunderstanding, colleagues and colleagues, for all parties. What should be one of today’s messages? In my opinion, too, we are obliged by all the parties and all the party presidents to cultivate the breadth in our customers. That those who think otherwise should stay with us, not get carried away. This is a very important message. I am sure that the programme's political alternative, which is slowly being developed in Slovenia, will only work if people feel that such a width here will be home - "Even if I think otherwise, I will stay with you." This is a finding which, of course, goes beyond just today's proposal for a solution. However, I firmly believe that this move is most unpleasant for the Prime Minister. This is, of course, no doubt, Master Rob has made the most risky move in this mandate, a very risky move. It was said earlier that it slipped Dr. Rupl. It slipped the Prime Minister. That's the problem. In some ways, he may have accidentally installed a mirror. Through this move, he drew his political image and profile back and forth. And that's why it's very difficult to defend his move. This is where I heard the question before, or the call to Dr. Ruple, where your morals are, step down. It was said that he was unprincipled and that he was a healer or that he was a great man of little principles. Those were already words that went in the direction of resentment, but yet why would he give up if the Foreign Minister defended his political right to think otherwise and that, in fact, together we would find that he was a good foreign minister, he would be inconsiderate of himself if he gave up. It is true that he has not given up and that he has actually made this debate possible in the National Assembly, which, in terms of political discussions, is one of the most important in this mandate. I also think that it would be unfair for him to defend himself by defending his indiscretion. I think it's unfair to him. Now allow me to restate my belief that the Prime Minister's argument is the weakest point of this agenda item. The nature of all Slovenian governments, including the first, is coalition because we have a proportional electoral system. And a coalition made up of two, three or more parties assumes that at the very heart of Slovenian politics in the government there is a huge political difference and that ministers have radically different political positions as Prime Minister. This is in the nature of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. And of course, a few months before the elections, especially for those coalitions that were broad, which went through some programming political connections and, last but not least, for Slovenia, it was good that they were such, it is natural for ministers, party presidents, to be accountable to their voters and to the electoral base to return to their programme policy area that they cover. I used to call it "in my political flock where they're at home." The most common thing is that several months before the elections, new programme political alliances are sought and formed. It's a rich political life. The question before was, What would someone else do if they were in a situation where they were, say, the Prime Minister or if they were to make a move on Dr. Ruple's replacement? Essentially different from a mag. Robbery. I'd be most surprised if I went to the Republican Assembly, performed there, and brought the Foreign Minister with me. I would, in my opinion, have achieved a great deal of political victory. Here's the fundamental difference in concepts. That's what I wanted to point out. I'm not embellishing everything that's happened in the past, but with full conviction today, I'm going to object to Dr. Ruple's replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Cheligo to the floor. [[You don't want to.]] Mr. Yuri has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I will respond to the statement made by my colleague Jerovšek, who is not here when he mentions a certain Mr Paul Paravel. I would just like to inform our esteemed assembly that this is a gentleman from Trieste who has spent his entire life traveling between the far right and the far left, with intermediate stops, which is a great friend and partner, also a political one, Sardis Albertini, who is the president of the most right-wing organisation. [[...]] So much for his credibility. With regard to the operation of the secretary of state he spoke about, the Slovenian minority should be asked by the most eminent representatives of the Slovenian minority in Italy and will be given a credible price, I mean the SKGZ and the SSO. Now for the question. The solution proposed by the Prime Minister has no difficulty in supporting me. On the contrary. Hard, and very hard, I supported the appointment of Dr. Ruple as Foreign Minister when he's a mag. The robbery reassembled the government after Dr. Drnovsk left. Why? Because Dr. Rupel does not judge, in my humble opinion, among the good ministers, no matter what they think of him on the right hand or in the opposition. If I also acknowledge to him the merits and well-delivered work on the independence and international application of our Republic, but let us not forget, with the help of the great reputation and wise decisions of the then President of the Presidency of the Republic, Mr Kučan, I recognise them much less when I join the European Union and NATO. Many times, if not forever, you, Mr Minister, have defended the views of the United States of America, even when they were at odds with the views of the European Union and threatened to be harmed by such a stance if it was carried out to the end. Such a comparison was the insistence on the signing of an agreement with the United States on the promotion and protection of investments, despite warnings from Brussels that it had been drawn up by European Union directives. Well, let's skip a few more flowers, such as the rush to change the generic medicine law after we've been negotiating with the European Union for a year, and the novels of the 8th Article of the Maritime Code, to allow Americans to come to Koper with nuclear ships as well, and so on, and we come to my conclusion of the lowest dignified points with a landing, or, if we want to be a little bit milder, with the absence of a fairy statement, which was a lot of talk, which, contrary to the assessment given by the UN inspectors, we have agreed to the American truth about the alleged existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and therefore for a reason or better to excuse for the attack, aggression and occupation of Iraq, beyond all the rules of the international order, particularly past the authority of the World Organization. You're not alone, Dr. Rupel, I admit, who wears this cross, there's still a lot of responsibility for it, czech, it was the price we or should have paid for the American "yes" to our entry into NATO. But here again, as was the time when we discussed on the Foreign Policy Committee, where I voted against the conclusion that you were doing the right thing, I say that the responsibility for agreeing to this shameful, lies-based action, in particular yours. And also about Nate. True, you were the most determined advocate of our membership, but you did so by making more use of his opponents. You know how the mood of the public was moving - the more you insisted on the purpose of this membership, the less support it was, and it already indicated that Slovenia's admission to NATO would be rejected at the referendum; after you had enjoyed a break or silence at the peak of the campaign, or were you so fucking advised. In Belgrade, unfortunately, at the time Prime Minister Djindjic was murdered, they entered the stage of the supporters of the entry into NATO Kučan, Stanovnik and Prodi and the membership in NATO was also saved to my personal grief. You haven't proved much in regulating relations with neighbouring Croatia. I believe that, in my opinion, the biggest formal delay in calling for consultations was when there was no real reason for this, Ambassador to Zagreb Peter Bekesh. And when there have been some positive developments in the right direction- in mind I have in particular an uncondemned agreement on the Drnovšek-Račan border, which will be of some use to us in arbitration, if we do not miss the vis-a-vis "timing" that we are given to enter the Schengen area, to which I am warning all the time, as you know. So, if something good has happened, it has happened, thanks to others, especially the then Prime Minister himself, who with Croatian Prime Minister Račan has cut short the months-long practice of infertile, including polemic, personal, and even balinian duels between you and Croatian counterpart Piculo. Here, of course, my criticism goes in the opposite direction from the criticism given by my colleagues from the SNS. I do not know whether you deserve to be commended that Croatia has agreed to a threefold agreement with Slovenia and Italy on the non-implementation of the fisheries ecological zone regime in the Adriatic to EU members, but it is the only one I can say to you, although it is not possible to ignore the fact that we have been assisted by our Western neighbours and, above all, by membership in the European Union. You also accept, as you know, the evidence of a dispersion in the Ministry. I do not do them myself, but I know that relations within the collective are not the best, that the trade unionists at the Ministry have resisted a policy that has been led by Secretary-General Trekman in your time with your support; that many with nostalgia remember the times when your predecessors led the ministry. I won't talk about other things, others said. However, I think that Slovenia deserves a more serious, more responsible foreign minister, so I will vote in favour of your resolution with full knowledge that the resort will be yours again - as I once said when I wrote an open letter - if the autumn Revival Demos wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today we are kind of going back to 1994, when the Minister of Defense was replaced. Ten years ago, a number of people gathered before the building at the Parliament meeting when Janša was suspended. Today, there was a crowd of photographers in the main hall, and citizens and citizens can monitor the situation on TV screens in Parliament, where an internal client's account takes place. The Prime Minister is involved in disciplining one of the members of the government he wants to dismiss for lack of confidence. The exchange of ministers is supposed to be something common, but today's performance is unusual. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is replaced two months before the end of his term of office after achievements in the field of Slovenian diplomacy have shown that the work has been done well, very good and fair. The main reason was his participation in the Republican Council, which meant that he would lose the confidence of the Government and its President. Has it not changed in ten years more than that we have broadcasts of parliamentary meetings? And that's what the opposition had to deal with! Should we not still have our own conviction, which should be welcomed in democracy? Can the Prime Minister attend through the side door of Forum 21 and the Foreign Minister lose confidence in the Government because of his participation in the Republican Assembly? A successful project of entry into the European Union and NATO has indeed been carried out in this mandate, and this is not only due to the ruling coalition. The Prime Minister did not mention the word of the opposition in his statement in this regard, while he said, among other things, that it was the citizens and citizens who had done the most because they had adapted to the way they thought, accepted values and so on. However, we can say that without the opposition and even without the efforts of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this area, the result could have been a bit of a sting. The fact is that the referendum to join the European Union and NATO was successful, both in terms of participation and result. However, they were not successful for the ruling LDS elections to the European Parliament. The overcrowding of some politicians and people has been quite obvious, and the ruling coalition must be aware that our future must be solidified by European principles. The European Union's space is a place of diversity where there is talk, tolerance, obedience where intolerance is not excluded and where intolerance does not prevail; it is a place where there are different links because democratic debates are in place and democratic decision-making is in place. By excluding the Foreign Minister for Slovenia, we will not do very well, since this is a unilateral measure, a replacement that has already been implemented, where a candidate has already been selected, is a measure that is moving away from democracy. What is more, it is moving away from independence, from people's feelings of goodwill and democratic conviction, so I will not support the proposal to release the foreign minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Evil One. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I must mention John Janša's statement, which shook me again. In fact, sometimes he talked about eraseds, and the drills were in between, and then all those who were erased were the aggressors, that's what Janez Janša said an hour ago. No, I'm not finished. Of course I'm not finished. I'm just getting started. As far as the Assembly for the Republic is concerned, this was certainly not a gathering of friends where we would enjoy a beautiful evening, but it was a purely classic party assembly where representatives of three opposition parties and an indeterminate number of so-called intellectuals and their friends met. There was a lot of talk about the arrogance of the majority. It is not the arrogance of the majority, but certainly, if a majority is formed in Parliament, this majority has the task of ruling. It's funny to say that most people would say that, so let's give you a scepter in our hands for six months and give you a scepter in our hands for six months. If you remember how the first Demos government made the most catastrophic possible move in the history of the new Slovenia with its denationalisation. No post-socialist country has done so, and we are the only country that we have returned in nature, and all those who were then in power are guilty of this happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u70	I would like to reiterate that there are many reasons and consequences involved in this debate, in my firm conviction. The fact that the Prime Minister proposed or had to propose at this time, three months before the elections, a replacement, is the Minister's misbehavior. You could have done it or not, but not forgotten it. To talk about the fact that in parliaments, Europeans, they are discussing ministerial paragraphs and that this is European conduct, it is simply not true. We have such constitutional arrangements, and we must do so, but they do not do so in Europe because they have such powers on the part of the Prime Minister. However, according to our constitution, the Prime Minister, Article 114, also cares about the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and coordinates the work of ministers. This is his right, this is his responsibility, he can do the right or the right to do the right thing, he will be politically sanctioned in the elections; but he has the right to do so and anyone who challenges him will stop the objection. To say that, when it comes to appointing ministers or regulating relations in the country, the same principle as in Europe is simply nonsense. In Europe, now, thank God, 25 sovereign countries must coordinate with the smallest common denominator, and even now the European Constitution foresees that there will be more and more questions in a certain qualified decision-making in order to make it effective. In a country where the multilateral parliamentary system is in force, the majority of those who have obtained the necessary confidence in the elections shall decide. Good or bad, four years from now, if not sooner, this trust is re-examined. Ladies and gentlemen, don't dramatize things and invent these things that are simply not true and accurate. However, the political weight of the proposal and decisions will always be before citizens and citizens. You, some representatives of the opposition, rightly, declare with all right at the end of each debate that you want power. And it's normal. But just like you want power, that's how someone still has to do it, and after October, we'll see who it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with the Foreign Minister, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Vice-President, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, because you have named me by name, I will also appoint you by name. I could have waited and perhaps answered a lot more in the end, but I'm afraid that some thought might slip away from me or I'm afraid that someone might think that I don't want to answer him, and maybe the discussion would have broken up in some place, in some wrong place. That's how I think I need to explain a few things. First time. Subject: Withdrawal or settlement, especially you, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, you told me to resign, not wait for a solution. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, of course, I would have given up, I have often thought about this, I must say several times in the last two years, and some who know me, even the highest representatives of this country know that I have given up on certain occasions or that I had a firm intention to do so, and they have convinced me. After all, I felt, for the first time, that I had no reason to do this in reality; and for the second time, that people probably would not understand it. What would be the reason for my resignation? This would be a departure from what I have been doing, and I would not have had the opportunity to speak here and to explain some of my views, some important things that I, of course, think this National Assembly has earned in explaining that Members and Members deserve clarification, and I think that the path has been the right one. In short, I wasn't waiting for relief because, I don't know, I'd have any opportunistic concerns, but mainly because I think the withdrawal would be misunderstood. Second, the unity of government. More than once, it has been said that the government was no longer able or could no longer act uniformly if I were in it. I have to say, I think that's the obvious from the vine. I have been working all the time since I was in the government - and I have been in several governments and even in this government, when it was not easy; I have been doing very well in the Robbery Government, taking into account all the laws and regulations and instructions and mandatory instructions, I have taken into account, after all, the direction to attend a trip or a meeting in London. There was a meeting, I would say, relatively irrelevant, although it certainly harmed our country, and I think it was in the interest of this country after all. But with the foreign minister with whom we talked most of the time, I was able to meet practically every week in the world of general affairs and external relations - I am talking about Jack Strauss, who conducted talks between the English side or the British side and our side. The Prime Minister or Prime Minister of Great Britain Tony Blair joined us for 10 minutes or 15 minutes, and of course they were not very much, I would say, in-depth discussions, but an agreement or an exchange of views that could also be at some other time, by telephone or, say, at the edge of the Ministerial Council or the General Affairs Council and at the edge of the European Council. There have been a lot of breaks on the edge of the European Council, especially at the time of the intergovernmental conference. And Tony Blair sat there for hours or stood in front of Chirac and the other presidents and, of course, he could be knocked by his sleeve and made a deal with him. This did not require flying to London; but it is, of course, a comment or observation that is not so essential. I certainly want to say that the government, as far as I can remember and as far as I'm concerned, acted in full uniform, I have submitted myself to the President and to the rules of this government. I have worked fully in the team and all my products have been extremely controlled and continuously verified in all these contexts as regards the whole government. With regard to the political situation in Slovenia, I do not think it is what we would like at this time. I guess I share an opinion with a lot of you. I had a lot of problems with my work in the government, especially with regard to the mood of this work, I would say, I was squeezing my teeth or much struggling to do what I had to do, and that I respected the discipline I had just talked about. I am the Prime Minister to draw on my side with regard to many problems, foreign policy problems, regarding relations with the United States of America, with regard to NATO, with regard to Croatia. Of course, I can't talk about many of these things in public. And if my colleagues are righteous, they will admit that my work has been extremely state- and constructive. Of course, the mood in the government was not always pleasant, but I said to myself that I would endure to the end, even though I sometimes felt like a stranger, sometimes I voted for a decision or against a decision. And let me put it this way. Friends from LDS, a few friends in LDS still told me two things a year and a half ago. They said for the first time, you won't survive your term. And secondly, you have no future in the LDS in the future government or in any future combination. That's what I was told a year and a half ago, and it actually came true or came true. So this situation in LDS, I apologize for talking about client stuff, but this is the way this thing went in this combination has been extremely hard on my life. Resolved on the eve of the holiday. I think it was my colleague Kacin who said I shouldn't take this holiday. That wasn't my purpose. Of course, this holiday is neither my property nor the property of any group, it is our national holiday, this Parliament voted for it, we decided for it many years ago, and I think we have made a right decision. It's our holiday. The problem is, obviously, this was not a holiday for the Prime Minister, who allowed himself to perform a symbolic act on the eve of this holiday, for he did not commit any special coup or such. But he did some symbolic act with which he wanted to say something. He was going to say that this holiday must in some way be symbolically affected, cut off, uncorrupted, or something like that. With regard to Vilnius and the debate, colleague Yuri. That he was talking about Vilnius, that it was a disgraceful union, that it was a shameful statement and so on. Please let us talk about this at your meetings, internal meetings, it seems to me that it is a little too much to explain - I am ten times, or twenty times, or even several times to explain about the Vilnius statement. It wasn't about signing a statement, it wasn't about us joining it, it was about getting rid of it. If we were to exclude ourselves from this, we would probably be expelled from membership or from NATO membership, and I just couldn't afford it. I have consulted with my colleagues in the MZZ, with my colleagues in the government, with the Prime Minister, with the President of the Republic and so on. And we've made up our minds. I took this responsibility myself, because that was the statement of the foreign ministers of the Vilnius Group. And I ask you not to profane this group in which there are nine other very honorable countries, new democracies, new members of the European Union and new members of NATO. After all, our Prime Minister has actually attended some of the highest celebrations with the President of the United States of America in the White House right in this group, and the disgrace of this group falls on it in some way. Now it seems like I'm defending him, but I actually think it's for decency. But we're gonna have to stop this hysteria about this Vilnius. It wasn't about Vlnius representing any of our engagements in Iraq, and you know it. We accepted our own statement on the same day in the MZZ, the next day the government accepted its statement. We have said that we are not members of any anti-Iraq coalition, but we are members of the anti-terrorist coalition and so on and so on and so forth, that I do not continue because I think there have been too many words about this. As for the NATO referendum. We received the referendum despite predictions that were very bad, despite surveys that were very bad and were obviously misleading. The predictions were fabricated, the campaign or propaganda was fabricated, and it was malicious. And apparently Slovenians aren't so stupid as to take away the opportunity they've been offered. We Slovenians have accepted membership in NATO in two-thirds, and for this reason we should all be happy, but those who are against it should probably go in a tiny village or shut up with their lamentations about it, some have previously talked about the majority and that most have all the right - surely the majority of the referendum has some weight. Those who say that we received this referendum because Djindjic was shot or for some other reason, I think they underestimate Slovenian people. This is a classic underestimation of Slovenian people. If they think that Slovenians are not so smart that they would not feel fit to be in NATO, then I think they are not for politics, they are neither for domestic policy nor for European policy, and they will experience great surprises there in that European policy. As far as Croatia is concerned, Mr Juri, I would like to tell you this. I myself have been extremely active in the implementation of the agreement or in the implementation of the plan to reach the Drnovšek-Račan agreement; I may sometimes write this in some of my memories. Ask President Drnovšek, ask others who were there at the time, ask your colleague Janez Kocjančič, who I sent to Račan myself, whether he was the first terrain to reach any agreement with Croatia on the border, the maritime border and the communication with them in general. We have slightly wasted good positions towards Croatia also because of various events such as events in the Puppet Theatre, where the Croats get the feeling that they can play with us. In fact, I must tell you, the key problem with relations between Slovenia and Croatia is that Croats do not consider the Slovenians to be equal partners in agreements and negotiations, they do not see us as equal and equal partners - this is a key problem for our relations. At this point, when we came to the European Union and were able to say so, but somewhat to correct the position of the European Commission and other European countries in relation to the eco-fishing zone; when we managed in some way to set up a husband to say so, in the European Union, the visa to Croatia, it was the first time that the Croats took Slovenia seriously. This is the first time this has happened! And I'm asking you not to say anything stupid. What you have said about this agreement, Drnovšek-Račan, is pure nonsense. I've been there all the time, from the first moment to the last moment, only I'm not the one who would hang every thing on a big bell like maybe the habit of someone else. I'm putting an end to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I invite everyone, representatives of the government and Members and Members of Parliament, to the floor with a name and surname, because of the magnetogram. I invite Mr. Ivan Mamić to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! In all the things I have heard and experienced in recent years, for example, especially in the last year, the question is where does the ship called the Slovenian government go. In the last two years, eight ministers have been replaced. So, out of sixteen ministries, twenty-five names have been defiled; the government has replaced the president. And that just seems a little surreal to me, funny. Whether it's some kind of experiment or not, I don't know what it is. Basically, we're not serious, I can't say otherwise than being frivolous. If we are speaking specifically about the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rupel, if, for example, until recently, someone from the opposition said something against him, the government coalition would "pull out our eyes". It's just that I've never heard anyone from the government coalition say anything bad, anything negative, anything that doesn't work well or anything. Today we hear you, because this thing has been going on for a long time, and the Prime Minister has been patient, and he's asked him to make some contacts and so on. I am deeply convinced, like the public, that if it were not for the Assembly of the Republic, there would not have been a problem and there would not be a meeting today. That is to say, we are going where we have been, instead of the letter D being a democracy to us, it means twice negative D: it's demagogy and dictatorship - what we've already been through. I can't understand anything else. If one of them denies me, I'll thank him. That way I have nothing but what people think and say in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Roman Jakič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. First the protest, Dr. Dimitri Rupel. I thought the presidents of the government didn't walk in front of the bar and pull up their sleeves. And I was hoping from you, as foreign minister, that you would not insult the Prime Minister of Great Britain and, of course, the other heads of government. I'm sorry, but it was rude to talk about who was walking in front of the bar. Look, article 114 of the Constitution is clear. The Prime Minister wrote: "As President, I find that the Foreign Minister no longer enjoys confidence, which is always and everywhere the necessary assumption of effective cooperation between the Prime Minister and the Minister. The Minister no longer does his work optimally and also as Prime Minister prevents the full implementation of Article 114 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." And, of course, this trust is essential for the functioning of the government, of every government. In a situation of political mistrust, Dr Dimitrij Rupel also appeared years ago and demanded the discharge and exclusion of Mr Co-sponsor from the post of Director of City Administration and of course LDS. Because he couldn't cooperate with him, just like the Prime Minister did with Dr. Rupl. Today's performance by Dr. Ruple didn't really disappoint me because he remained principled. The chief remained and spoke ill of the Mags. This reminds me of Mr. Loizet Peterlet's indecisive speech when he saw his white socks and his provostity as he replaced him. Not to mention Dr. Ferlec when he was this foreign minister and Dr. Rupel was an ambassador to the United States. By the way, no one else at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was allowed to write letters to the minister; of course, when Dr. Rupel was appointed. Of course, I'm not surprised when Dr. Rupel impatiently tells me what about mags. I'm not surprised by his anger at the press. Nor am I surprised that the party of which we are both members declares it undemocratic and compares it with the previous system. Isn't it, Dr. Rupel, the same party, the same party that served your political ambitions for the past ten years as an MP, mayor, minister and ambassador? And right now someone's woken up and started talking about this same party, this same party is undemocratic. I understand, of course, why Dr. Rupel went into trouble with Dr. Zisek. Dr. Žižek wrote, quote: "Last times there has been a metaphor of the driver, a guardian who is careful to keep political work in the middle of the road and to make sure that the political balance does not bend too much to the right or left and thus stops once the right, secondly the left hand, as well as Stalinism, which also fights left and right deviations In such a privileged position only someone who has no idea of democracy can claim. [[...]] Democracy means that no one can represent such a privileged environment guard, that the neutral environment is not that there are only biased positions in the fight against the remaining ones. The name for this open battlefield is democratic policy. And in democratic politics, ministers are freed if they understand more with the prime ministers. I also spoke to some foreign diplomats, and I did not get any indications that anyone would be appalled at what was happening in the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have actually witnessed great manipulation and self-improvement. But if this is of course in the nature of Dr. Rupl, I understand because it is necessary - once again I have to go back to Žišku - to "move away some historical memory" and, of course, to erase that part of talking about punk, the youth who brought together people and who led to independence, along with Bavčer's Human Rights Committee, which, by the way, had nothing to do with the New Review at the beginning, and then thank God that they have merged. But I would like to politicise with those of the opposition who say and their thesis that the work of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in internal and political action did not have an impact on the optimal implementation of Slovenian foreign policy. And at this point, I have an opinion that has not been delivered. I believe that due to the consolidation of Slovenia's right or to the parties belonging to the Conservative Group, there has been a rejection in the defence of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. Today, I must say, I listened surprisingly to another in the opposition about New Slovenia, Mr Janša, when he claimed that representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were also present at a private meeting with Mr Sanader. Last but not least, this Mr Sanader is a member of the EPP, clearly, as of course the three parties from this Parliament who co-organised this new coalition, and is an advocate, this Mr Sanader, is an advocate of arbitration over the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia - interestingly, that over the decisions of the Government, Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Policy, Dr Rupel also stated this. And here I see the connection between this internal political action and foreign policy. In this context, it also seems to me that this association and, of course, the unconditional co-existence of the interests of one country on the international floor, for us, for Slovenia has probably led to the loss of the reputation of Slovenia in the eyes of France and Germany, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has personally closed the doors of Paris and Berlin and, as you know, we are knocking or the Minister for Foreign Affairs knocking on the door for an official visit, but that is not the case. I will read once again Article 114 of the Constitution: "The Prime Minister cares about the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and coordinates the work of ministers." In this context, of course, I support Mr Rope's decision to propose the discharge of the foreign minister in Parliament. I have to say, a lot of steel nerves were needed not to have done this before. But I think the storm would be as similar as it is now. He made a move and this move must be respected and, of course, for the smooth work tomorrow, he will appoint Dr. Dimitri Rupl's successor. And let me say one last thing. I hope that Dr Dimitrij Rupel will actually have the face of sitting in a parliamentary bench, but after he thinks about what he said today about people who were around him or with him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister, Dr. Dimitri Ruple, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u78	I apologize to my colleague Jakic, but what he said is, of course, totally unrealistic. Slovenia has excellent relations both with Germany and with France, visits in both directions have been very large, as you know, recently with us this French Foreign Minister Villepin is coming to Barnier. As you know, I was alone in Berlin twice, once this year, once in the previous year, Joschka Fischer was here when he was doing propaganda, helping us in propaganda for NATO and so on. In short, it's talking sucks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Well, when I got to the office or to my office this proposal by Mr Minister or Mr Rope on the discharge of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and read this modest explanation, not even half of it, I was actually surprised and could not believe that the Prime Minister could in such a modest way discharge such an important minister as Minister Dimitrij Rupel. In this brief explanation, on the basis of which I believe that the Prime Minister probably has nothing better to argue and write, which he never knew, unless someone wrote to him that he could read - not in a single word, and not in a single sentence did he write what was wrong with Minister Dimitrij Rupel, in order to resolve him. Not a word! It speaks of mistrust, of a variety of other statements which have nothing to do with any content of the work carried out by Mr Foreign Minister. What some are now saying is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been working against the government's single policy is a pure lie! And you quote the Constitution here! Now tell me with one sentence or with one act of what Mr Minister has done wrong, contrary to the conclusions of the National Assembly, the conclusions of the Foreign Policy Committee, contrary to the conclusions of the Government, etc.? We have already found that this has not been the case today, and therefore these arguments that you are making are entirely unjustified. I find something else myself, I find something else, that Mr Rop has really become a very impatient man lately, an extremely hardworking man, also ignorant and I haven't realized it just now, but I've known it for a long time. Let me just tell you one example of what happened when he was still secretary of employment. That's about four years ago or maybe five years ago. There was an opening, and I'm not going to tell you which facility, say Posavje, where I was present. Mr. Secretary was like some kind of festive speaker. It is true that we here in Parliament are fighting in one way or another because of different views, because of arguments, but this is a democracy and we are talking here, and there may also be some hurtful words; but at some event, at the opening of some important facility for a community, let's say, in my constituency or district where you want to go, then I meet - because I was also on this occasion there - a minister somewhere in the hallway with his delegation. There he begins to deal with me politically in front of his colleague, his delegation and those people, including to embarrass, humiliate and so on. And then what should someone who has heard of it think of such a man? I was really hurt, and I will never forget that, because I would not do this to my greatest enemy, but not to my political opponent, so that at a public event or at some festive meeting I would start to insult him and attack him politically. I wouldn't do that. I really wouldn't. But, look; the worst thing about all of this is that these are extraordinary damage, such conduct harms the reputation of our country. Mr President of the Prime Minister should be that person who would truly be an example, as Mr Pahor, President of the National Assembly, a model for all citizens and for all of us, how tolerance must, for example, be solved in such a situation. Definitely, really! And Mr Pahor was very well attended to that assembly for the Republic, and here we spoke quite normally in the corridors, because there was also some time pressure and Mr Pahor told us, some Members, and now we are going there. Just as normal as we are best friends - because we are, in fact, political opponents, because we are not enemies. And without any problem, even without any criticism, Mr Pahor was present at this assembly. And the president of the country, if you remember, said in his interview with the Republic Assembly that this was nothing bad; that it was positive if people were discussing the bright future of our country and exchanging opinions and trying to find some solutions that would further improve Slovenia, and that it was also improving its balance sheets, results, statistics and so on, given what Mr. Rob said, which did not do anything else, but simply praised some things that had nothing to do with this resolution, and another thing he spoke about some of the averages, but never asked what these averages were hiding inside of himself. These averages also hide dramas and these heavy dramas. Workers, hardworking people also earn 60, 80, 100,000 if they get anywhere and they're on that average, and they're hard to live, and there's a lot of them. And I would like, as a member of the National Assembly, to help these people to have a lot to live well, not just some, and this is the meaning of a common agreement, a search for common solutions, and this is what needs to be defended. So, I see absolutely no reason to dismiss the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I will not vote for that either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Grachner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. When I listen to my opposition colleague, they have been stressing all the time today as the only reason for the minister's dismissal is his participation and the invitation to the Republican Assembly. That is why I would just like to define myself a little bit. Look, it's not true and I don't agree with what you've been saying all along, that it would be easier to prove other things that have been, and the main reason that a colleague has already stated before, which is in line with Article 114 of the Constitution, is that it is essentially a loss of trust between the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. And in our legal system, in our rule of law, the Prime Minister has this right to propose to Parliament today, this is what we are doing here, and if this is voted out, all of this is perfectly consistent with legislation. Well, I don't think there can be any dilemma here. One thing I'm surprised to hear, however, is that the opposition colleagues who called the meetings on corruption a month ago do not comment on the Minister's own arrival at the Republican Council. For, in my opinion, and also under the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, it is certainly a bit distasteful and immoral for the foreign minister to come to a meeting which is supposed to be in his free time, of course, at the expense of another company. And it is certainly also disputed that such a assembly for the Republic, earlier in the speech, was said that the Assembly of the Republic was also due to their approach to European standards. In some European countries we have been this year, or I will be more specific, in Germany this year we have witnessed that the President of the German Central Bank had to resign because a company paid him private holidays. In my view, it is incomprehensible that, on the one hand, you are defending and showing this participation in the Assembly of the Republic that this is something that is completely understandable, something that is acceptable to all, and that no one is asking the right of this issue, that, in fact, this participation has also been paid by someone receiving State resources on the other hand. And the minister is an officer. And for the officials, for all of us, and also for the minister, the anti-corruption law we passed this year. And it also says in this law that officials should not receive gifts that are more than 30,000 tolars. I would not continue to sell because much has already been said today, but I would like to take part in this participation in the Assembly of the Republic, which I have nothing to say about the future, because these debates are different, but we could also look at them from this point of view. While something has been written about this in the media, the question is also whether such a gift as the payment of such a journey does not need to be reported as income.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan has the floor. Just a moment, Mr. Petan, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u84	That's all I want to explain, it wasn't a gift, but it was the money we collected privately from each of our pockets. I gave my fee, which is about as much as it costs to fly this plane, so there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! This callback requirement is quite unusual; if we consider that there are no arguments in this brief content, it seems to me that something else is very large. Indeed, in this request sent by the Prime Minister, there are only five sentences. It's true, it's a little longer sentences but it's only five sentences. But in the five sentences to dismiss the minister, that's a great deal of arrogance, and that just points to the arrogant work of this government and the Prime Minister. It's even more unusual that this is three months before the elections. And if one still understood that three months ago, about six months before the elections, the Prime Minister of the Government of the coalition partners somehow threw himself away, then of course now that is less understandable. The fact is, now somehow he's throwing himself out of the government of his own kind, otherwise thinking, and that's what we used to call impatience. And we've heard of impatience a few months ago in this House. But there's something else that's interesting about the whole thing. It is important to take into account the fact that the government is for the citizens - and not the other way around - and that citizens are therefore able and have the right and must also assess the work of governments, parties, including parliaments, us and ministries. I don't know if this is an odd coincidence, but the fact is that the last such major research that was carried out in May this year has shown that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is headed by today's suspended minister, has been best evaluated by citizens. Then you ask yourself, what about those ministries run by people who were strong under the average, in the end? For example, in the end, he is the Minister of Health for Home Affairs, for Environment and Space. Why is there no suspension of those who run these departments so badly? For example, the Minister of Health was quite at the end; this is the minister who is quiet or perhaps even with his "faggot" wants to increase the premiums of health insurance for over 60 years, but in fact he does not say anything or quietly support. This is unacceptable, it is immoral and mainly because of corrupt procedures, because information from the insurance company Mutual leaked elsewhere. This is unacceptable for other insurance companies to receive information about those insurers who spend less money that are healthier, says especially young ones, and are then invited by other insurance companies and they will make profits. The insurance company Mutually, however, is the one who would now raise premiums with the "faggot" of the minister as well as the government. That's what you call it, gentlemen. That's probably not how it works. And if certain rules apply, then even criteria should apply to all and should be given such a "refoulement blessing" also by those ministers who run the departments that people have considered negative, very poor or strong under the average. This is one of the reasons why I will not support this withdrawal requirement; there are many more, but colleagues will tell their own. I will not support this request alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Franz Onbulj has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Well, given today's debate on the discharge of the Foreign Minister, Mr Dimitri Rupl, it is my personal feeling and also my view that this is an inside-of-LDS hearing. I am sure that the observations received from his client colleagues are about the findings you are making, about the things that happened more than a year ago or during his ministry as foreign minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In a way, I'm not surprised by this, because, not least, I can appreciate that we are in fact people's politics and not people's politics. And as we are, so is our relationship or our objection to a certain work done by the Minister in the past, but today there are certain criticisms. I fully understand that some order in the client is valid. If you are not obedient if you do not respect certain arrangements, it is your decision to identify yourself and eventually go to another party or to decide that you are passive to politics or to a certain group of people. And that doesn't surprise me that he's a magician. Mr Rupla, Prime Minister, proposed a solution. I am surprised by the attitude of fellow Members, which you are reading to him today, things that we should have long ago read out to him and also suggest to him for self-delivery. Suddenly, it is noted that Minister Dimitrij Rupel was an inappropriate minister. In short, there is also no suitable minister below. From a rare colleague who formed the government, he received certain credits and praises. But even more interesting, as I said before, is that we are people of politics, that we have asked him questions recently in the opposition, and you have defended him on every whim and scale. It's the other way around today. I think that this is a bad journey to politics in Slovenia, because this relationship and this reflection of the policy here in the National Assembly is also a reflection of people who then behave this way throughout the country of Slovenia; in short, all institutions operating in our country. In view of this - I am sorry that the Foreign Minister is not present - that he has already been given, and he himself has said that he is deciding on the parliamentary bench, but I propose and invite him to the last bench, perhaps also the seat which I have occupied a year ago, is a place where he can safely and soberly decide to continue his political career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you. Dr. Andrei Bajuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard several words today on what basis, on what basis, in our constitutional order, ministers are called and dismissed. I think we need to reiterate once again that, in fact, in parliamentary democracy, our constitutional order is a kind of "uniquem" in the sense that, in fact, ministers are appointed and dissolved by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Prime Minister. When this State Assembly appointed Mr Rupl four years ago as Foreign Minister, it did so on the basis of a broad debate. The views were expressed and presented. And these views, the essential positions of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, are the desire to support the majority, almost all parliamentary parties, either large coalitions or opposition during this period. When we consider - therefore, this is our duty, our constitutional duty - the Prime Minister's proposal to dismiss the Minister, we must be aware that it is not any ministry. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is a special feature in each country, but the specific thing is that in fact the Minister must enforce, implement foreign policy. The foreign policy of a normal country goes beyond the party borders. And in this context, we must acknowledge and we must also tell ourselves that the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia is in its essential characteristics this decade, and I would say two basic pillars, in fact it has also been subject to support, broader support, than only ruling coalitions. And this was our entry into the European Union and NATO. In the opposition, we were critical of this government's specific moves in foreign policy. We also made that clear when the time was right. I am specifically talking about the Racan-Drnovšek agreement, for which the representatives of our Group did not give their consent because we did not agree. However, we did not think that this was sufficient to require some interpretation or the discharge of the Minister. But if they thought so, they knew that we did not have enough support for such a thing. And in foreign policy, it is necessary to act in such a way as to preserve the credibility of the state's image beyond our borders. And that's actually what this is about. When I read and read once again the explanation of the Prime Minister, which we must decide today and when I listened to his presentation, I cannot find the reasons why I could assess why. It is true that, under the 114th Article of our Constitution, the President must ensure the unity of the government's approach. One wonders, however, what is at stake in the functioning of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in terms of the government's unity in the field of foreign policy, because that is where we should start. What, though, disturbs this government in the foreign policy implemented by Mr Minister, what disturbs it in the field of foreign policy? We heard Comrade Yuri from the United List, echoing his arguments on the Vilnius Declaration. Of course, he despises the fact that Mr Minister explained this to the Committee on Foreign Policy, not once, but repeatedly. That that position actually had the support of the Prime Minister and also the President of the State. Well, one wonders what it is. However, if we do not know if this National Assembly will only decide on the basis of the obvious fact that the Prime Minister no longer trusts the Minister, without at the same time demanding that he actually speak publicly and clearly, not only to Slovenian citizens and citizens, but to the whole world, in which he does not agree in the foreign policy that Mr Minister has carried out, then this is irresponsible action by the National Assembly. And if this is accepted, and it all shows that it will be adopted on the basis of the debate that I have followed with all interest, it shows that we will do a bad service to our country. It is not normal, indeed it is not normal for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be replaced for such a short period without explaining what is actually going on. It is not normal for the Prime Minister to have not yet said what he does not agree with what really bothers him. If, in fact, it is only an internal policy, if it is just some misunderstanding or lack of trust at a personal level, then I would still insist on it, respected colleagues and colleagues, that is not the way it is done in a serious country. Such problems are solved elsewhere than in the National Assembly. Such problems do not confront the world’s public. How can other countries now understand the real position of the Slovenian government? What disturbs us in the foreign policy that he has led so far, which has already had support in its essential characteristics, is the desire to support the great coalition, which had the majority, as well as the opposition. If we do not resolve this issue, believe me, we are doing a poor service to the image of our country in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've been among those people, as one of my colleagues said today, I wasn't particularly prepared, I don't have any writing. What I am going to say is a reflection of the feeling of this moment that is taking place today in this hall and for quite some time before that. I remember the story after the independence, the first democratic elections in 1992, the parties that came to this place, and then the merger of some of the parties where our party joined with Democrats, Socialists and Greens, and Dr Rupel also came to our party. Since then, we have been following this story in such a way that it is likely that Dr. Rupla has always been reserved for us or two. All those years ago. He sat with us in the parliamentary benches, at the same time being the mayor of the municipal municipality. And most unusually today, it seems to me that we have listened to the criticism of our colleagues for his work, for his personality, for those who are today's most advocates. We were able to read daily stories of "Dimitry v. Dimitri", when they tried to discredit him in the city congregation, to lower him in any way. We know who's defending him today. And these stories, despite the fact that I have been in this policy for 12 years, I do not fully understand the sudden changes in some of my colleagues, or we are seeing them in other places. And, of course, it is also not understandable to me the discontent we have here today from Dr. Rupl that it is in this society, us, so badly all wrong and that just as the discontent has been expressed here today - before, I think it was not as much said as today - and that it is even possible to function in this society. Given that there was a normal relationship between us, let's say, and when it comes to voting when a person has to decide how he would vote and why, after today's dissatisfaction, it's a little easier for me to vote for a resolution than to help Dr. Ruple get rid of this society that doesn't feel good. Because, as we have heard, without or to who is to blame, I feel that cooperation is no longer possible. There has been a situation that can be interrupted only in such a way that we vote in favour of resolution, and that then the story of the autumn, which has been a long time varied, is a little more added to this variety, we have this situation that we are likely to have to bring to an end tomorrow, and that we will eventually deal with some more things that are likely to be even more varied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. There is still some time available for discussion. First Franz Pukšič, then Jelko Kacin, Ivan Bozič etc. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Such explanations for the resignation of the Foreign Minister, who has led foreign policy for so many years, as Dr Mag wrote. Robbery, we wouldn't expect any local community from the president of the local community to replace any member of your committee. But it also shows the level of responsibility to the state. I don't care what you have or what you had inside the client. Clearly, there are many things in this party that are seriously wrong. But the way forward, of course, will be decided by the electorate and the electorate. But it is only right that some things are being heard today. I was also a member of the Democratic Party myself 10 years ago, along with then a colleague of the same party Rupl and when the Democrats decided to connect at that famous convention in Bled with the Liberals, of course I objected very much. And after 10 years, it turns out I was right. In the economy, science and other fundamental areas, the ruling elite with Robb at the helm ensured that the fundamental functions in this area are carried out by those who are fully engaged in the ideological concept. If this is not the case, they are successfully eliminated if they are not appropriate. That is also the case on Thursday, when, Mr Minister, once again, Mr Kaco buried you at the OZP meeting before you died as an external minister, and today Mr Rop has been paying attention to you. But there has been a lot of lustration in this country. To others, Mr Rob and the Liberal Democracy are performing with the greatest possible degree of arrogance. There is, of course, no exception to this, nor is the Prime Minister, who by nature should seek the most professional and objective direction of the government. On the contrary. In his performances, he clearly points to contempt and opposition. The constructive dialogue between the opposition and the position that would result in the effective functioning of the Slovenian state is unfortunately not possible because of the ruling elite. Let me give a nice example of a number of laws, some of which were very well prepared, which were not simply adopted because of the fact that they did not bear the names of the desired applicants. Of course, the content was not important. In addition, the ruling elite unrelentingly interferes with its ideology in certain basic laws that should be based solely on profession. The backlog of economic development, the backlog in economic development and modernisation is more than obvious between 1991 and this year. The indicators that compare us with other countries also show this. The culprits are those political forces that are also responsible for Slovenia's falling behind from 1945 to 1990. The economic policy adopted by the ruling elite cannot compete with other new members of the European Union. Slovenia can, unfortunately, only be compared to Romania after the proportion of exports of high-tech products. And the problems of high unemployment, long - term unemployment, are unfortunately also young people with high or university education who are seeking employment for the first time. For all of this, I will not support the Prime Minister's proposal and will not vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you. The word is Jelko Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I didn't follow the speaker very closely, but now I've got two text messages to thank him for giving me such a nice title. That's what they advised me to do. I would like to stress three things about this debate today. It just seems to me that this story is really inspired by our friends and colleagues from the opposition, perhaps future partners, God knows, if it isn't, they're running around the story that the Prime Minister wants to replace one of his ministers three months before the elections. Mr. Bajuk is not here right now, but let me remind you, Drnovskov's government, which was the predecessor of the Bajuk government, fell precisely on May 5th. The government was then appointed 7.6., and then we had the elections on 15.10. It took about a month for a longer period of time than it separated us from today to the elections. But, ladies and gentlemen, at the time it was the whole government, it was more than two months, and now, of course, it's one minister. And now we're all throwing eyelashes here, how bad it's going to be, how the government is going to collapse, how the world will no longer spin normally, because the Prime Minister has dared to dismiss one of his ministers. The Prime Minister is the same, but he is stronger. He's a choice of associates and associates. And when he says "mom," that's just enough. When the Prime Minister says "I've had enough," then he can call anyone off. This is what we have been in the government or in the executive world, when we have not yet had a government immediately after our first democratic elections, that we have addressed, and we can choose our fellow Prime Minister. And his choice is his will. Because of what is happening here in this hall and what will happen in the coming weeks, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not go on two. Just as she went to two SDZs or as they went to two Democrats or some other party in which our dear friend and our member Dimitrij Rupel found himself and had a pleasant stay in those days when we were still working democracy. For the last time, he told his colleagues in his letter that he had been Minister for Foreign Affairs for 7 years and that he had been working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 10 years and would remain with them in the future. How it can prejudge this, I don't know, unless he has already arranged for himself to be a professional diplomat, that there will be no more politicians, which he has done so far, and what he proves to us all the time, will be something else, just a professional diplomat. If that's not the case, maybe I don't understand it, but he wants to scare the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if he comes back. It's his will. I still think he's a friend, so I'm a public storyteller. I prefer the first offense to the last one. What needs to be said here in public and I can also tell you that my colleague Rupel, whenever we are abroad, represents me as "this is my watch dog." In Slovenian, it would be said, "The watchdog or the watchdog." I therefore hope to tell you that I know very well what is going on at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what is happening in our foreign policy. Not only because I am the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, but also because I am working very well with the president of my party, our coalition and our government. And that's why I can tell you some background. My colleague, Dr Dimitri, imagined that he was the first and only commissioner. And because it's not, it's bad. He has now again found that we will appoint a Commissioner again. Because it's not, it's very bad. But the Prime Minister cannot agree that one person is blackmailing him and reviving all relations, coalition relations in our country and cannot blackmail the Prime Minister, not our country, not the electorate and the electorate. That's why the Prime Minister always has the right to say, "I've had enough." A lot of people have ever said, "I've had enough." Look, our memory is short. When I first spoke on behalf of the delegation, I said, "The length of our memory is very short." If you look at the Saturday annex to the Ljubljana Work, of 29 July 1995, this is now an incredible nine years, you will be able to read from the pen of your party's president, Mr Pukšič, Janez Janša a long tract entitled Fascism in Ljubljana's main markets. You also have a special chapter, which reads: "10 The Shame of Mr. Rupl", written by Ives Talnič [[?]] That's what Daniel Malenšek writes about. A whole bunch of people have fought him dead before, and that's why the country didn't fail. And if our president said, "I've had enough," let's take his will into account and we don't have to throw ourselves at eyelashes, because then in the end we'll just vote and allow him to form the government he wants, because he has good arguments for it. He doesn't need unnecessary health in the coalition. However, this is no disaster for our foreign policy, because we have recently addressed the declaration on the priorities of our foreign policy under the conditions of membership in the European Union, and we have accepted it. And this is a very clear framework and direction for anyone or anyone who would or would be elected Minister of Foreign Affairs. This Foreign Minister will not be the successor of Dimitri Ruple because he cannot be such an heir. The minister will be new and let's be aware of that. Once it's enough, and then it's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ivan Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's kind of hard to talk when the main players of today's game aren't around. But, however, colleagues and colleagues, I will say so, I voted myself and also our party for the Prime Minister and also for the Minister, whom we are dismissing today. We're not in the government anymore, but they're still here, and you feel a little uncomfortable when you once thought it was the right thing to do. But still. Mr President of the Prime Minister has sent us an explanation of the proposal to dismiss the Minister in three paragraphs. I will quote the second paragraph, which reads as follows: "Everyone, of course, has the right to his political and other position, he also expresses it publicly, is freely linked and similarly, but, as with other public officials, it is also considered that they have taken special responsibility for their actions as members of the government, especially if the latter seriously initiate the credibility and unity of the government as the key executive body of the State." End of quote. And now there's something missing. I wrote the question myself: What? If it were to say here that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible because the question of the southern border is not resolved, I would vote peacefully in favour of its resolution. But it doesn't say. In the first paragraph, however, it is stated in the fine language that what is wrong is not. But only in the third paragraph says that, among other things, torn out of the quote, "he no longer enjoys the trust of the Prime Minister." So, because of the measures of power, it is easily and unilaterally dissolved. And we can say that it's just an account in one and the same party in the government. No more and no less. But political pluralism will one day have to be a little bigger with us in this country, which we are actually or are all committed to. I will not support the Minister's replacement myself, for such a loose explanation is little too small for me. I'm not referring to any short term until the election. But I'm going to say something that none of you said four years ago when the SLS-SKD joint party elected a part of membership and established a new New Slovenia party, we were in SKD-SLS the one that we stayed so democratic that we didn't remove anyone from membership. Let's take a look at this. Today, in the last Euro elections, this new party was the largest and best in Slovenia. What would it be like for the electorate to object to me differently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thanks, buddy Christmas. My word is Leopold Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. The more I listen, the more weird I get. Not because I wouldn't expect it, but because I think the world is really wrong. Just a while ago, a few months ago, we could almost hear at each performance, except for the euro entry and Nate, how this coalition has a bad foreign policy, irregularly, immaturely, unwisely. This has been said many times at regular press conferences. And this same policy was led, of course, by Minister Rupel. Today, of course, we listen to one completely reversed song. We listen to a song where the Prime Minister, by his own authority, and nothing more than that, suggests to Parliament that one of the ministers be replaced. As he recently proposed in accordance with all the normal principles of parliamentary democracy and the ministers of the SLS stepped down because of disagreement in the coalition and no one thought this was such a big problem. And here we did not discuss this and there were no big speeches about why ministers But, Presečnik and Bizjak left the government, but even their customers seemed perfectly normal as part of some political pluralism and some political democracy. And so it is. Just as it is perfectly normal for what is happening today and as it is perfectly normal for a sufficient explanation to be such, but not as some would probably want it to be, but as a disagreement between the Minister and the Prime Minister, and therefore the Prime Minister estimates that he can no longer work with the Minister and then there are only two options, whether he is no longer the Prime Minister or not. And in this case, the Prime Minister suggests that he is no longer a minister. Everything's legitimate, everything's normal, and we want to, and we're making a big story out of it. And today we're listening to things that I have to say to Dimitri Ruple I don't afford all that it is. And I had a purpose and I still have it so that I wouldn't talk about his work, and that I wouldn't judge his work, and that I wouldn't go after him on my own. However, Minister Rupel chose his own public appearance for what is happening today. He said it himself earlier, because he wanted to say what he thought of this government, what he thought of this coalition, what he thought of this party, and ask his party's President and its Prime Minister in this House. So he chose this matter and, of course, this debate that we've heard, which reminds him many times, at least of me, more of that Jerry Springer Show than of a serious and weighty debate in Parliament, at least as I imagine the debate in Parliament, is experiencing what he is experiencing here today. I don't like it. I don't like it, and I've heard it a lot, and when I'm sitting here today, I'm ashamed of how we do it, we do it in front of the cameras, we do it in front of a lot of viewers, we do things that aren't right for Parliament, and we do things that aren't right for the people. This is my deep belief and you will never convince me otherwise. Prime Minister Rop, as far as I know, and this has also been said here today, has chosen an extremely possible option at this time, and this is this proposal, although as far as I know, also offered to Minister Rupl to resign. Of course he didn't want to, he also said why not, because he wanted this to happen in Parliament today. And that's what's happening here today. Another thing that I'm not comfortable with is that I'm going to end it, and that's the only thing I'm going to say as my opinion on Minister Rupl is today's performance. I'm sorry he's not here right now because it's hard to tell someone when he's gone, but he'll hear and read. Such a non-diplomatic, at least as I imagine diplomacy, both for the Minister of Disguise about a foreign country, about a meeting with an important foreign country such as the London meeting, about that already mentioned possession, or, as it has been said, the conduct of the cabinets of the Prime Minister of a large and important country, where someone could have knocked him by the sleeve, the statements of Croatia spoken here, and so on, would not be appropriate. These are words in Parliament, not words on a private picnic, where either the minister or the Member may speak in that way. But here's a word that's said, another weight. And that's the only thing I can personally say right now is what I resent Minister Rupl. Moreover, the three ministers of the SLS have, as it were said, left in a perfectly normal and legitimate manner and have left as gentlemen, just as they are worthy of ministers. One of them's obviously innate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you, Comrade Leo Kremjar. Joze Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar, this debate is mainly about your indiscretion, because what is now happening is what you have triggered. Some time ago, one of the juniors in this National Assembly, but experienced liberal Democrats, had a rather loud and enthusiastic discussion about the liberal and liberal who wanted to alert the public about the width, the width, the width, the width of the party. It was not long ago that this same liberal and liberal would participate in the resignation of his minister because he had attended a certain assembly as a member of the same liberal party, because he felt that something could contribute to the new perspectives of anaemic policy. And this assembly was attended by many people of different viewpoints. This minister came to Linhart's hall through the main door and I don't really know what's disturbing: either the choir or the republic. I do not know which citizen would be disturbed by an open-ended assembly without censorship on important issues of the past, the present and the future. Who's the Republic supposed to bother? Probably all de facto and de jure want the right republic, but not any continuation of the continuity of the past century, which has disintegrated in a relatively short period of time, and this repeatedly, the national core, usurped Kingdom privileges and brought the previous country to its disintegration. It is interesting that none of these spheres of government reacted when the Prime Minister participated in a discussion on the establishment of the 21 Forum, which he entered secretly through the side door. No one raised his voice against his prime minister, there was no prosecution, no debate on his indiscretions and intactities, no debate on appropriateness, all probably because of the liberal and liberal stance. Nor did the former President stumble in the presence of the Prime Minister at his preparatory meeting, nor did he say anything about the powers of the Prime Minister, the rights. He felt the duty of the Foreign Minister to express his opinion on this. This indicates that Slovenian politics is very dual. We can ask ourselves where the path leads us, not only to prevent, but even to prohibit and sanction a different opinion. Even attending a meeting that discusses the Republic, about Slovenia, about our roots, about our future is forbidden. The proposal is to replace the minister. This is the sixth minister to be replaced by a third of the government in the last three months. Clearly, this government is more concerned with itself than with serious and real leadership. And all that we do now is just fix the facade and the government doesn't even have the power to deal with the substantive problems. And probably these backlogs recorded by Slovenia behind other adherents are not random. We are not in a position to unify ourselves even on key issues. And this feeling that we have that we're better at making progress faster is basically just a product of puffs and just ads. However, the Prime Minister always offers us people who can start work immediately. And we can wonder why he didn't take advantage of his professional and human resources potential in the client he has. And every time he proposes to us a new minister, he pulls a bigger ace out of his hand or as a wizard of a larger rabbit. I think that these debates, which we have seen recently in the exchange of ministers, are actually infertile. And they are simply meant to create only beautiful facades, blurry, and there is no discussion of the real things that are to be discussed at this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Yuri Malover has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the First Minister's proposal because I cannot agree with him, given that the explanation was a good half of the page. There are a number of reasons for that. This year we heard about the success of Slovenian foreign policy as we entered NATO, how we entered the European Union, how successful our negotiators are. And I have to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played the first violin here. They were also preparing individual meetings, individual meetings, so that there could be no such thing as terrible sightings here all of a sudden. I said there weren't enough serious reasons. If Article 114 of the Constitution had been applied, as previously quoted, the first President or the first Minister would have to make a proposal at the time of the Presidency or, soon thereafter, make a proposal to replace the Foreign Minister, if he could not work with him and state some personal reasons or similar. I have to say that in a way I am also afraid, afraid of such a party, here I am thinking mainly of LDS, which, in different thinking, different behavior of an individual when combined with some friends, that he must punish him immediately, punish him with expulsion. And this punishment will be executed by the ruling coalition here today. Similarly, she punished the Slovenian People's Party a few months ago, when she was thinking a little differently about some ministers, where the interpretation was fairly well-founded, and to those who interpelled, we fastened and expelled from the ruling coalition. Here I am also asked why the new candidate, Mr Wigel, for he spoke very positively about the current Minister Rupel on television a few days ago. That's what he says he was doing well. And why wouldn't the Prime Minister do that for three more months or three good three months, as we're going to say, as they do in Italy. We have just heard in Italy that the Minister of Economic Affairs has resigned and that the Prime Minister has assumed his post. I expect that all the secretaries will remain, all the staff will remain and, in this way, will be able to do so at this time of leave, because for the government or for the country where the elections are coming, other countries do not have some deep or serious contacts at that time. And here I see the splendor of this government. We need to name a new one immediately, we need to assign functions immediately. The reasons given to me and the debate here today have not convinced me. Even that 114th article of the Constitution wave did not convince me, for it would convince me if there were some serious reasons why this, this, and this. Just so you don't get along too well with someone, it's a little too little or a little too much, and it smells too much like order and discipline is needed in the client. From the above, I could speak even further, I will not support, as I said, the Prime Minister's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Lydia Majnik gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The lesson given to all of us by Dr. Capuder in one of the omises from which we should all learn much together is respect for the mandate. Today it is not a matter of party discipline, although it is nothing bad and is practiced by all political parties. It is about respect for the mandate, and above all it is about respect for universal values, it is about morality as one of the fundamental values. Liberal democracy is precisely because it unites both the left and the right, because it respects and nurtures an internal dialogue that does not require the Bianca of signed exit statements in violation of discipline, which some parliamentary groups know and practice. We already carry liberalism in our name, so anyone can join us and, of course, we are allowed to leave. That is why we have never troubled our participation in the Republican Assembly. It is important to stress that the problem is only in the first signature and nothing else. Despite or precisely because of liberality, values need to be respected even more. That is why, despite the fact that Dimitri and I have respected the mandate given to the Prime Minister in this National Assembly and, of course, is a reflection of the elections four years ago. The mandate also gave me the right to choose my team, so I will support his proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you. Anton Anderlich is not here. Joseph Skolcz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Thank you very much. This debate is a result of a specific constitutional arrangement, where both the Prime Minister and then the ministers are led and elected by the National Assembly. That it is not possible to take a step forward in some comparable way, as the European system is meant to say today, has also proved to be within the constitutional discussion, where it has not been possible to change the constitution in order to be comparable to that segment. That is why, of course, such a debate, I will say, is legal and legitimate and gives everyone the opportunity to argue also with those decisions that normally do not allow other democratic parliaments to be structurally politicised. And from this point of view, of course, it is more than a debate as to how solid the reasons for the Minister's replacement are, at the same time, how strong the Prime Minister is and how powerful the Parliament, in particular in its opposition work, can begin his authority. Therefore, it is not surprising to him that the questions raised by Dr. Bayuk are normal. It is certainly extremely unusual for the opposition to defend one more exposed and, as we have been told, even more arrogant ministers of the Liberal Democracy. Let's ask ourselves why that is. I think it's partly because of this structural solution. You could be naive and say they're led by simple amazement. But I find that hard to believe because we all know each other precisely, as is the minister who is in the process of getting rid of everyone who is standing here on the opposite shores. I could say that perhaps opposition, such as Mr Janša, and Pukšič, and Jerovska, as well as others, leads to a characteristic tenderness when it comes to various things. Maybe that's true. They didn't always show it. I'd believe it if I was at work all the time. I could say that at work there might be some sort of secret plan from the one Dr. Rupel was talking about, but he thinks we're just tools in the hands of someone else. If you'd agreed to this thesis yourself, you'd be wondering if he couldn't be the tool in the hands of someone else's fourth. But all this is possible because of these undefined relations between Parliament and the government and between the Prime Minister and ministers. And we have to be surprised at all of this, and we have to listen to all of this, and all of this can take us together once and for all. Of course, I think the question that I have been asked here repeatedly is whether political pluralism is at stake when it comes to replacing the minister. Mr. Christmas wonders about this, last but not least, perhaps someone else later. I don't know if we can really pin this on him. Finally, all formal assumptions have been put in place that anyone, at any time, can organise or party and, as we have seen, also forums and assemblies. I myself am joining those who say like Lois Peterle, who is not here today, that there are forums and assemblies, I will say, some blindness in all this machinery and that they give a seemingly better chance than what structurally sustains Slovenian Parliamentism. Therefore, I am not sure that this concern for this pluralism in the LDS is so sincere by those who say it because I would like to remind you that the exchange of power has always occurred with different transitions. Mr. Jerovšek! Look, you wouldn't leave the suspense of power if Mrs. Dobrajc and Mrs. Salmič Okretič hadn't helped you at some point. Last but not least, at some point, the government was able to form Mr. Petty Officer! [[...]] If we were to be patient, if it were procedural, I would let Mr Jerovšek come in between, and then I will continue in peace. [[...]] That's not possible. Then I'd ask if I could then. I was going to say that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I know, but not least, you're jumping into my word, and from this point of view, it seems to me that it is not possible to complete the sentence and say that Dr. Drnovšek would not at some point have been able to form governments if he had not joined the Liberal Democracy at that time Cyril Pucka. The price he paid for this, you will remember those who say that you are very tolerant. From this point of view, I would say that political pluralism is certainly not at risk. What's going on? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Mr. Skull, please, if you can finish. I counted those 20 seconds that you were disturbed, but the time of the debate for the LDS Group is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Okay. Thank you. Of course, I wanted to say in just one sentence that what I think is important is that when we talk about substitutions, we need to be afraid of those people who are trying to ensure their inviolability. It's the only thing I can tell Dr. Ruple. Everything else is about glory and honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The LDS Member and Member of the LDS Club have been notified, but the time has passed for this Group of Members. So I ask you, Your Honor, Minister Dimitrij Rupel, you still have some time. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, let me just say that I have no problem with this resolution and I'm not resisting it. Whatever happens to most people, I'm going to go through with it, like I said. In some ways, we will not regret that I witnessed or attended this interesting polygraph or this interesting discussion. Four points. First of all, Mr. Kacin is at some point - I think so, so I understood him - I have seen opportunism and careerism. If I were a careerist and an opportunist, I would probably be silent, not saying what I'm saying, not doing what I'm doing; the career student is silent, he's careful and doesn't allow himself, say, to say things like what I'm saying. Otherwise, Mr Kacin must remember that in 1994 he went to LDS to replace Janez Janša. That's how he became a minister and, of course, on his part, I don't let my career become manifest. Second. And here I felt like some people thought it was in the government to be Minister of Mercy, like it was something that was very nice, honey and milk and that sort of thing. I must say that there can be no grace in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is due to certain events, some situations, some contexts and so on. I just became a member of this government with great joy, in a way because of my past work, because I had already been to Drnovsk in the government. But I would certainly not have taken this city if it had been said then that I had been shown mercy to the President. That's how I never understood this position. As for the relationship in the MZZ, which someone was talking about here, whether they're bad or they're gonna take a breath when I go, I think this evaluation is criminal and it's rude and rude to me. MZZ is a system that contains 450 people and works on the edge of capacity. We have entered the European Union and NATO, we have a majority of people abroad, and I must say that on their behalf I refuse to speak about anything being wrong with the staff of this ministry. On the contrary, all are very large and sincere in their efforts to be successful. And for the fourth time, I think one of the discussers has escaped the syntagma that I'm a minister in the process of resolution. Yes, it is. I have been in this process for two years, and today there will be a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Thank you very much. My word to the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Rop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Let me just say a few words. Of course, I have listened carefully to what has been said, the discussions that have been, and of course I would like to respond to some indications, to some statements, particularly those concerning the government's activities and the situation in Slovenia. Of course, the opposition is expected to be critical of government and achievements. I can't expect anything else, either, but it's only right that I answer some of the clues to tell you what the facts are. I believe that we will have a great deal of opportunity in the coming period in the coming months to face these views. However, given that there has been a lot of debate on this, in particular, the debates concerning the economic situation and some assessments on how long the state of public debt, what the economic growth situation is, what the situation in Slovenia is, of course, has been completely wrong, and it is therefore right to say to the entire Slovenian public what economic results we have and, of course, also to commend ourselves in those cases where we believe we can boast, although we have never claimed and do not say that everything is right, that everything is just the best, on the contrary, we argue that there is much to improve, but that Slovenia is on a comparatively good track, and it is true that we say so too. In view of the fact that the comment on economic growth has been, let me say again, that Slovenia has had more growth throughout the whole period than the European Union. Many times it is obvious or says that Slovenia has lost its advantage over the other countries that have entered the European Union during this transition period and that we have had less economic growth than these countries. The comparison for the last 12 years for all countries that have entered the European Union shows that Slovenia has cumulatively seen that it was among those new members with the highest economic growth, although it has far more balanced economic development, that it has far least problems with deficits, public debt and, of course, unemployment. Poland alone had higher economic growth than Slovenia during this period of 12 years, but, of course, the level of economic development has about 40% and unemployment, which is three to four times higher and a deficit of three to four times higher. So it is not true that the economic situation in Slovenia is bad. The economic situation in Slovenia is relatively good. Let me repeat, despite the fact that many people do not like this, interest rates are as low in Slovenia as they have never been before, inflation is the lowest ever. As I said, this country's credit rating is highest than ever and is comparable to some members of the European Union 25. Of course, I must be sorry for those who want bad news, that even as far as public debt is concerned, it does not follow what has been said, public debt is usually measured as compared to gross domestic product or in companies, that economists know, measured by traffic and income, that is normal, and not only is measured in absolute terms. If a company operates only with its own resources, but has huge revenues, this is not always optimal in terms of further development, so of course there is also a golden fiscal rule and so on. And some also know this by the opposition. The data show that the debt of the Central State fell in 2003 in the gross domestic product. He fell from 27.1% to 26.7%. You can look at this in the official documentation, this is what the whole of Europe sees, and it is right for the whole of Slovenia to know. And it is right that when different politicians speak differently, we say that these are real data. The same applies to the costs of servicing interest. These costs also fell in 2003, so some resources for development purposes were released. I'm not gonna talk and make comparisons across countries, very detailed. If we compare the country's debt according to international data, we see that very few countries are comparable to Slovenia. Even in 2002, Slovenia is among those countries within the European Union that are least indebted. In fact, only Luxemburg and some other countries, Ireland, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Poland, Spain, can be commended at the level of indebtedness and similarly cannot be compared with Slovenia. And that's the right thing to say. As for current economic growth, given that there has been a lot of talk about investment today, I am pleased to say that investments are growing relatively rapidly in the first quarter of this year. For those of you who may not know, it is true to say that in Slovenia we have a land of investment in gross domestic product slightly over 23%. On average, this share is 19% in the European Union. And of course, that's very important. In just one week we'll be signing a contract with Renault to invest half a billion dollars in Novo Mesto in a new project. I believe that many people do not like this because it is good news, but it is not true that the government has not cooperated and has not tried. In particular, we held talks with the representatives of Renault to fight for this, and the state will cooperate with EUR 40 million. In this way we will acquire 600 new jobs only in the production of Revoz and, of course, an additional 600 new jobs in connection with this new establishment. In short, domestic investment as well as foreign investment is increasing this year. In view of the fact that I said earlier that economic growth in many ways depends on the countries in which we export, namely, these are the main demanders and this is clearly understandable to all, not only to economists, that we export 60% of our total exports to the European Union. It is clear that the economic growth planned in the past has always been planned on the basis of planned economic growth in the European Union, in an important part because there is a major demand for our goods and services. And, of course, I am pleased to find that exports are growing again this year. So we have two healthy factors of economic growth. The first are investments, of course, and the second is exports. Which is a big difference from many new members of the European Union, as well as existing members, who in many and many cases base economic growth on debt and relatively large deficits. Last but not least, the latest case in Italy, linked to the Minister of Economy, is related to deficits and debt and the violation of the Maastricht criteria, as you probably know. Slovenia practically meets all four Maastricht criteria. As for public debt, deficits, interest rates, as well as inflation. Let me say that we've reduced inflation significantly over the last two years. And this is one of the great successes of this government, this government that I myself have led. Two years ago, we had an inflation rate of 7.5%. Many of the opposition then asked what we will do with inflation, and we will lower it, how we will go to the European Union with such a high inflation rate. That's when we said we're going to lower inflation and we're going to have an inflation rate of about 3.6% per annum today, and we're going to be able to lower it in the next two years. All that I have just said had to be taken into account by the European Central Bank when it began negotiations with Slovenia on the entry into ERM 2. All of this has been taken into account by the Member States of the European Union or the euro area, and we have been negotiated with them on how and under what conditions we will enter the euro area in ERM 2. We succeeded in the negotiations, we succeeded with the first three countries to enter ERM 2. It's a success. It is right to say that we have success in Slovenia and that we can all, all Slovenians and Slovenians, be proud of our success in this area. Today, it has been quite a mocking experience, and it has also been said about paying policies. We've managed to reach an agreement with the social partners, maybe that's funny to someone. Some of this part of the fool may be, but we have managed to reach an agreement with the public sector union on public sector wage policy, and we have also arranged for additional pension insurance. This was a major success of the social partnership. Few countries have managed to conclude such a social agreement or agreement with trade unions. Of course, an agreement has also been reached in the private sector between employers and employees. The government has cooperated so much that we have offered ourselves an additional reduction of the tax on the payroll, and have also sent a bill to the National Assembly. Then the social partners themselves agreed on ways to raise wages. Of course, far from talking about just five thousand tolars, it is pure deception and deception. It was agreed that, according to the conditions in each sector, nominally in part, wages would increase equally in that basic increase and in the rest as agreed in the collective agreements of activities. And everyone who knows the minimum wage policy is well aware that it is a general agreement, that it is an agreement at the level of the industry and, of course, an agreement at the level of individual companies. And it's just that this whole thing creates a concrete salary for each individual. And, of course, in this context, we have also changed our income. And, as you know, income will contribute to the fact that payments will be higher than they have ever been on an unaltered gross salary. If you don't mind, I'd like to continue explaining. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Well, as you can see, some people get upset when I talk about what they've been talking about for five hours, and I think I have the right to talk about it for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u115	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u116	When we talk about the problems of R & D expenditure, let me say that this year we raised this expenditure to 1.7 gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, just a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u118	And our target is 3%. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Dear Members and Members! I owe it to every speaker to ensure peace in this Chamber. The Prime Minister responds to the statements that you yourself mentioned in the afternoon work, and this opportunity, of course, must be given to him. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u120	If you don't mind, I'd like to continue. I hope I have the right to speak as you did for five hours. I hope you're so patient, so tolerant that you let me tell you some facts. If you don't mind, I'd like to move on. As far as human resources policy is concerned and what has been stated here. As you know, a law on civil servants was passed in the National Assembly. In accordance with the Law on Public Servants, both the Commission and the tenders have been established. The fundamental intention of this law was to select, on a professional basis, the directors of individual sectors in individual ministries, as you well know, President Drnovšek appointed different people from different structures to this commission, among others, as I know, also one of the members of the expert board in the shadow or the shadow government, Mr Virant, who also drafted this law. He was one of the authors of this law, he was the one who drafted this law, publicly defending him with the very argument that a politician should reduce its influence, make it impossible to influence this recruitment. In accordance with this law, which your man has actually prepared, which you are promoting, calls are now being made. These calls were decided by three ministers to implement them. These calls will now be launched, they will be signed up by those who will and will meet the conditions. Finally, this commission will also assess the appropriateness of those who will apply and, therefore, Mrs Verica Terstenjak, who was, I think, was the Secretary-General of the Government of Dr Bajuk, Mr Virant, who is in your shadow government, and of course you will have direct information and everything about who and how he will be called. I hope to be called experts and people who will be credible. Let me say a few more words, if you'll excuse me. What I have just said is also important to make it more clear that this picture of the entry into the European Union and European integration can be presented. We have not entered the European Union in this circle, either because we know how to lobby and we would be kind. Slovenia entered the European Union because it was good because it met the convergence criteria, because we were the best ones to meet the criteria needed to join the European Union, in three important segments. The first segment is in the field of legislation. In the field of legislation, we have done most of what is necessary. He made his own Parliament, the National Assembly, and you who are here have done your part. The government that prepared it did its part. They were made by ministers in specific areas and also by the government's service for European affairs first by Mr Bavčar, then by Dr Janez Potočnik. These were people who watched and coordinated legislative coordination and also negotiated directly within the European Union on these criteria, on individual conditions, on individual chapters. This was a 10-year work, which essentially depended on the actual situation and the actual situation in Slovenia. If the situation in Slovenia were as bad as you wanted to show, then we would never have been in the European Union, then we would never have taken over ERM 2 and could never have taken over the euro, then we could never have participated in Istanbul in a discussion with all members of the NATO Union equally behind those tables in decision-making processes, both within NATO and within the European Union. The international public, the international community has recognized us, the best, the most advanced have recognized us as being equal and it is right that we appreciate this and it is right to say it again and again to those who want to forget it. In the field of economy and fundamental conditions, a functioning, successful market economy, in all the European Commission's works, you will read this without a functioning market economy, without an efficient economy, you would not be able to enter the European Union and even less take over the euro. Undoubtedly. So entry is due to what we did at home first, and we and politics and citizens and citizens and businesses, and of course, we also had to meet the political criteria for joining the European Union and also NATO. We need a functioning democratic political system. And I believe we've managed to establish it. And by all these criteria, we were the best among all those who entered the European Union, and let us be proud of that. Dr. Rupel said a lot in his speech. I never said that I didn't appreciate Dr. Ruple or that I didn't appreciate him. I've always tried to work with him properly. I myself have tried very hard to be a colleague to be very honest, perhaps at times I have even been too honest with him. We talked a lot and tried to find common ground. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, Dimitri Rupel decided another way, but it's his right, he can do it, and that's what I told him when we talked. However, if that is the case, if that is the case, then it is the right thing to decide transparently in front of the entire Slovenian public, saying: I do not support this government, this government is not right, I think another government can be better. And he chooses another government and he goes to the other side, it's completely normal in a democratic society and it's part of, if you want, a political culture in Western democracy. And I expected that from Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Of course, he decided, I'm sorry and I'm sorry, for the second time. He chose this course, which he showed here today in front of everyone, probably also in anger at what he had decided, and he also has this right not least. Finally, the vote will show how and on what he has decided and what Parliament has decided and the future will show how he will act; of course, this is his personal matter. In the end, all I would say is that from what I have said, he really holds what Dimitrij Rupel said: Slovenia has a glorious future. But he also has a good present and a good past, and it's right that we respect that, and that's why I'm here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please keep your hands in the air for a while so we can write it down. Let's go in the order of the likes, Rockhead, Bayuk, Tuckati, Janša. [[Back-up advertising.]] Then we'll mix it up when I see how many of you there are. Rupar, Tarchoon, Zalokar Orazem, Kacin Allow me, because it's okay, but now you're starting to raise your hands again. I'll read, in the first round, if I let anyone go, say: Skonik, Rokavec, Bajuk, Tukjat, Janša, Rupar, Tarčon, Zalokar, Bernik, Anderlič, Gračner, Rupel, Kacin, Kremjar, Jakič, Potrč, Potrata, Juri. Because of me, there could be 90 of them, and every 10 seconds he'll have. Sculpture, Sok, Pohorec. 24, 58 minutes - bad two minutes each available. Two minutes. Everyone has two minutes at their disposal, so many of you have come to your senses, and I hope no one has been released yet. Two minutes, Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has misled us into a sphere that is not on the agenda today. When he began to base the Minister's proposals today, he talked about the economic situation, the social situation, the social dialogue, and then for the last two minutes he also spoke about the argument for a solution. And then, of course, when some colleagues responded to the Prime Minister's argument in the debate, he took advantage of this argument by fellow Members and spoke again about economic trends, about social dialogue, about ERM 2, about joining the European Union. Nothing new, but not a single new argument that could convince or argue his proposal for a solution. I'm sure you need to be corrected. The fact that Slovenia entered ERM 2 and was a good candidate is also due to the fact that it was well-prepared to approach and join the EU. And here was the role of the Foreign Minister. There's a counter argument for me. To boast in the field of foreign policy and at the same time to propose someone in exchange is a counter-argument to me. And I'll tell you one more. Personal reasons, character anti-pathy, mistrust, this is not an argument that falls within the scope of the Minister's parliamentary discharge procedure. This is an argument that belongs to the body of a political party, so the performance of the Prime Minister has not convinced me in anything that I would change my personal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Look, the Prime Minister has shown one manner to this national council today. First of all, he gave his explanation, of course, on the proposal to replace or resolve the Minister for Foreign Affairs, then, of course, after a few speeches, he went back to the conclusion, spoke wrigglingly, as Mr Podobnik had already said, about other topics, economic issues. Of course, now that it would be necessary to ask yourself another question, of course, he went out the door again nicely. This is not worthy of this House, and the Prime Minister was not honest not only about this House, but also about citizens and citizens, because he was responding to something completely different, he was speaking entirely about something else. Of course, what is appropriate to him and, of course, what he says almost every day at press conferences. All well and well, but this country's assembly today also has a certain point, and this point can also be called respect for the democratic criteria that this country has already highlighted. This Prime Minister, by his proposals, is gradually breaking down and reducing these democratic criteria, which are already exposed. Of course, we had to highlight these democratic criteria so that we could come to the European Union and NATO. Is it now a way of, of course, reducing these democratic standards to go back? That's a serious question. And one more thing. I would expect some self-criticism from the Prime Minister. It's all the other people's fault, nothing's to blame. Not once did he ask himself today whether he made a wrong move this year and a half. I believe that some self-criticism for the Prime Minister is also in place, as we all must. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My word is Dr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Thank you very much. In fact, he wasn't just talking about other things, about those things he was talking about, about the economy, and so it sounds like some Slovenian football guy, who brags about how nice it was four years ago, when we actually came a little higher than this path in the European championship. It's really sad, we're not talking about football, and it's something he's introduced to somewhere weird. In fact, we are talking about the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the responsibility that this National Assembly has to decide on its proposal for the discharge of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He didn't give us any arguments in writing, and today he's been talking to us about other things. I expected him to answer at least one question, to answer what is the difference between the foreign policy pursued by Mr. Foreign Minister and his and his government, what is still there, or to answer the obvious clear question: If it is appropriate for him to see that in our country, someone who is a professional diplomat cannot make any progress because he falls under a different political option? This was said here today from that talk, and this question was raised to him and he did not answer, but he told us how the economic growth was remarkable a few years before he actually took over it, because unfortunately, you know, the average in eight years is not the same as the real trend and the trend is slightly different. Unfortunately, Mr President will have to re-examine his data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u128	The point is, if you want to blacken one, you'll blacken it, even if the golden egg comes. That's not even what this is about. It's just that every two, three minutes, you're going to blame the Prime Minister and even the government, and it's not going anywhere, it's actually masochism, what you're doing. You won't change anything, but you'll only have more bitterness in you. Let's open our lives a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. At the end of the speech, Mr Prime Minister said very well: "At the time of Mr Rupl's ministry, inflation has been reduced, we have reached a social agreement, and jobs will increase in Revoz." Is that why the Minister should be relieved now? I don't understand that logic, I don't understand. I think it's something else bad and dangerous, and I'm serious about that. If the Prime Minister does not separate the grain from the weeds, does not know and understand what is the problem of today's meeting in concrete terms and does not know or hope to answer the specific question, to the concrete problem with the concrete answer, gentlemen, such a President is a threat to the country. Because there will be only one scheming, because he will not be able to say "bobo Bob" because he will bluff, according to his own words, and, of course, such a leader does not deserve this Slovenia. Gentlemen, in this mandate, Slovenia had a bad hand in choosing a government party and government. I hope it's different someday.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u132	So, I think it's the first time that the Prime Minister proposes to replace the Minister, say his own words and leave, then say something again and leave again. Nor is it here except for the minister proposed for replacement, any member of the government and the question is whether this is at all in accordance with the practice followed by the National Assembly. I don't know why the absence of ministers was, usually at such points, at least half the government was here - what the absence of ministers means. Whether they are solidarity with Dr. Rupl or simply the ark is already falling apart so that they do not deserve to sit here. Mr Prime Minister has also slightly forgotten that he has not proposed a replacement of the Minister of Economy, but of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He did not write any arguments in his explanation and did not say them before. He was talking about the data they're holding on to, and the others aren't holding. Is it not true what the Prime Minister said or does not hold what is said in the statistics of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development of this same government? We have read earlier the promises made by the current government coalition. During the four years of your mandate, you promised 4 to 5% economic growth, appropriate development and wages. Never in these years have you achieved such economic growth and not development and wages. Last year, economic growth was the lowest since Slovenia gained independence. And that's when the Prime Minister offered 5,000 dollars of gross salary raises to the workers. This is a great success, which he does not mention, except for those who, like Mr Lenič, have come to monopoly positions with 3 million salaries and other public institutions, which have hundreds of them, where politicalally staffed people from government parties also have millions of salaries. For them, economic growth is, of course, as if it were as predicted. Or what's happening now, when you call people in positions consciously in order to get 12 million severance payments, all in a row from government clients.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Bevek. Here you go. Don't you? Mr. Rupar, please. No, not Rupel, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Well, I'd be proud if I were Rupel, but I'm not, I'm Rupar. Thank you so much for saying that. Not only did Mr. Prime Minister forget to say that you have given 2,600 dollars a month to all workers in Slovenia more than mercy and more than buying votes, which is not going to work, but he also forgot to mention that in the last period you have burdened older than 60 years with higher levels of health insurance contributions; he forgot to mention the terrible high prices of kindergartens that we have been living chaos in primary schools for nine years. Of course, the Minister has also forgotten to say that in the economy not everything is as he is told in the Forum 21 round; that you have enveloped space and environment from the Triglav National Park, Bled, if you like, the Ljubljana Bargain and so on. Well, Mr. Prime Minister has a bad memory. And one more thing, I'm absolutely sure he even believes his words. You know, the whole crow's hungry doesn't believe it. And those who move in the circle of billionaires, those 150 people in the Forum 21 circle, telling them how our economy is growing, how the profitability of their stocks is growing, can certainly not believe the crowds; people think otherwise. Mr Foreign Minister, I will personally thank you for having a key and key word in joining NATO and joining the European Union. Also because you were human, you were good as Mayor of Ljubljana and good as Ambassador to Washington. And I also thank you for having survived the mud, the disqualifications, the discredits, you've survived all the dirt that this government and these people have been through, and you've stood and stood. Don't let him hurt you today. Step forward, and everything will be much better than it looks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u135	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u136	So, we're getting close to this conclusion today, once again, when I can say, no one who would open the TV would know what we're really talking about. At the outset, it was very clear that we were discussing the proposal to resolve Mr Rupl's foreign minister. Mr Rupel himself has fully stated the relationship and relations between the Prime Minister and him as Minister, and I think that, in his words, there are enough reasons for us to simply wish on both sides, as the matter appears to be falling apart, to also support Parliament. Unfortunately, this came at the end of the mandate, but if things do not go forward if relations between the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are at such a level, it is logical, of course, that the Prime Minister proposes what he has proposed democratically in accordance with the Constitution and the law of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, in today's debate, it has been repeatedly mentioned that there is some kind of controversy in the LDS. I have to say, it's not about any kind of controversy. However, it seems to me that it is the execution of a scenario that has been envisaged, not on our part, as indicated by Minister Rupl's replacement, but that Minister Rupl's overuse is, above all, abused to carry out before the elections a great spectacle, which serves for pre-election purposes. For this scenario, of course, we should know what happened after various meetings, various inn meetings, and who was there. Here, of course, I mean not those meetings mentioned by the opposition champion, informal meetings in various parishes, but some other meetings with another team and some other important government men. In any event, today's case is exemplarous as the opposition unitedly defends the minister of position, who, by the way, is also a member of the ruling party and who has changed his own position, which has obviously, publicly, apparently very close to saying that we are not equal to the positions of the opposition or the position of the opposition. And, of course, here we have to note that the government is not a Parliament. Parliament has a position and opposition. But the government has no position and no opposition. In the government as the highest, most important branches of the executive branch, the executive authority must be provided with a minimum of uniformity, and that is decided by the Prime Minister. If we did not have a system today, when the Parliament, which is a single system, co-decisions in addition to the premiere of this spectacle would not be at all, but the Prime Minister, who makes a sovereign decision on this, would do the job himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u139	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. The question of merit regarding external matters and foreign policy has been mentioned many times today. However, no one spoke of the general fact that the Slovenian foreign policy in the past was strongly directed primarily by the Prime Minister. That was Dr. Janez Drnovšek. For that, I don't think I need to give any specific arguments and evidence. The same is true in the last period when, at least in my opinion, foreign policy is also strongly directed by the Minister or First Minister, Mr Rop. Today, it would be inappropriate, unfair, and probably harmful for the country to talk publicly about the mistakes that Dr. Rupl made in his work, that is to say, the decision of Rope today. I think he was very correct about this and his justification did not go into this extreme. There is a lot of talk about statistics today, and we have heard how all of us are armed with it. We have heard that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the best ministry. Nor is that true, for the assessment of the work of the ministries this year shows that this ministry is fourth. Nor has it been said that the resignation was proposed for the participation of Dr. Rupl in the Assembly of the Republic. But the question is, Where is the principle? Where democracy is, if someone sits quietly in the government and in the party, he looks you in the eye and at the same time makes public statements everywhere and says that the government and its work are bad, that it needs to take power and start looking for a new coalition and looking again for new friends and establishing some new Demos. So when Dr. Rupel saw that he no longer showed him well in LDS when he failed in his blackmails for various positions and functions, he began his activity against LDS and against Minister or President Rup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thank you. May I have Dr. Bernick's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! I must say that some at the reception on July 4th asked where you are, and I said that you are tied to the shameful pillar that we are currently dealing with in Parliament. You know what bothers me the most; for the first time, Mr Prime Minister has not answered any questions. Not mine either, when I told him that the President is the largest country with the largest graves in all of Slovenia, and he doesn't care about them at all. When he was talking about the economy, there was something else he could say. But you know, that reminds me, because I'm probably the only one in this House when I didn't have a nipple in my mouth when the 1941 revolution started. That reminds me of those exact times. Friends suddenly became the worst enemies, and during the night of so much hatred I have never seen in my life, and here, yesterday's friends are today's biggest spitters on the minister. [[...]] I have a lot of problems with what the Prime Minister has done, but the Prime Minister has shown nothing, it's the right point where he says he did it, he did it, he did it, and so on. That's why I'm dropping him off. He didn't do it, and that's not how democracy works. But it does so in non-democratic countries, and I am protesting it, and for that I will not vote for resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u144	Many debaters today said that there was nothing wrong with this proposal for a solution or a request for a solution. I am convinced that if there were 50 pages of explanation, the discussion would be exactly the same. After all, we have not really listened here today to anything other than the criticism of the government, but to speculation about what is happening in a party, where the space is, or who is coming out of it, and so on. One would think that after more than 10 years we can actually talk about things that are on the agenda, but not at every point everything and when someone thinks that everything needs to be said, he tells everything. From never respecting a coalition contract, sitting in two chairs, some other things. I appreciate Mr. Ruple, whatever you think. After all, a person who has survived in a variety of governments is practically in all the governments that have been in Slovenia and from the first Demos to this, at least for a period of some very important function. The fact that he has not completed any mandate is another matter. Why, how and now obviously the time has come when the Prime Minister has decided to propose a solution. I'm not guessing here what he had more credit for, less credit, etc. Where'd it go? There's a moment coming, obviously, when a move is made, and that's what happened. I have no other option than to respect the government, the Prime Minister, until this point, to trust the government, to be responsible and to solve all those problems that are for the benefit of citizens and citizens. And among these tasks is the teaming of the ministerial team, and therefore, of course, in all these various speculations and debates, I think there is no point in going down.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Grachner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you. From what I've heard today, I really don't understand if that's all right or if the world is wrong. If you listen to colleagues, the same, from the opposition on the Foreign Policy Committee over all these three and a half years, then there have always been criticisms to the Foreign Minister, we've always heard how arrogant the Minister is, how in external diplomacy he employs only his people, so we've heard all of this on the Foreign Policy Committee here today, as if the world was wrong. Mr. Rupar told him all the glory. Then, on the other hand, you convened an extraordinary meeting on corruption, and no one mentioned that the Minister's arrival at the Republican Assembly was not entirely in line with the law. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Because it doesn't matter if I repeat myself, you have been repeating yourself all day long, and when the Prime Minister then told you the answers to your obviouss, when you've been talking all day about other things, you've been talking about each other, and you've been talking about 5,000 tolars, and you've been talking about, I don't know, about all the other things, when the Prime Minister wanted to answer you in a cultural way, but you didn't leave it to the word. [[..]] And I really don't understand this duality that you've shown us here today, in all three and a half years on one side, in a completely different way today. This, of course, confirms once again that I believe the Prime Minister, that he was not able to create a confidence relationship with the Minister in any way, and that is why I will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rupel, now is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u148	I'm almost speechless, though. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I am the foreign minister of this country, and I will not respond to the various nuisances and incitements and so on, but I will mention one thing that has miraculously escaped the view of the great foreign policy experts in this Parliament, even the Prime Minister who claims to be leading the foreign policy of this country. Mr Barovic, who had a very interesting contribution today, said one thing that no one then mentioned and which went completely over. He said that Slovenia does not have territorial access to the open sea. I don't know if he knew what he said. I don't know if he knew what he said. For the Slovenian foreign ministry, with me at the head, sent a note to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia for years and years stating that Slovenia has an open territorial exit to the open sea. This is very important. I am afraid that those who inadvertently follow this debate have not, to say the least, ignored this speech. And one more thing. My friend Kacin, I saw earlier that you were very interested in my employment. I have been in a regular working relationship with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1997; I did not stand there myself, but they put me there. And, of course, if I ever stop being a Member, when I become a Member and when I stop being a Member, I will always have the opportunity to return to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I have the status of first-rank diplomat or ambassador. But I'm very glad you're interested in my job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kacin's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President or President. First of all, thank you to my colleague for this explanation. Now I understand this statement, and I will quote it again: "I am a modest civil servant at this moment or, if you will, someone who lives on his job." Now I understand this much more than I did before. But speaking of which, I'd like to point out two things. Today's speech was that it was a comparison with the discharge of Mr Janša as Defence Minister, and more than ten years has passed since then, but some parallels have not. Well, first of all, there's no demonstration out there, and we'll end up sooner than then. It's some kind of comparison. Mr. Janša then revealed to me for years that I had stabbed him in the back, and for a long time he did not understand that it was possible to elect a minister only after the Minister was gone. When you're relieved today, Mr. Minister, the minister will be gone and someone else will come, so please never deny to anyone that Ivo Wigel did something wrong when he agreed to run for office. This seems to me to be a great relief for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for our government and for our foreign policy. But still in connection with this relief or, if I had understood the Minister correctly earlier - he said that the solution would be a solution - we have not yet voted. And before we vote, the Minister still has the opportunity and the opportunity to change his mind and not have to vote, and to step aside with all dignity and accept the will of the Prime Minister, who has said publicly that he is no longer in a position to cooperate with him, and has therefore initiated a procedure that is still going on. So I expect that the Minister will also be able to define himself before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Prime Minister has offered to this national assembly what he thinks in this case, and it is up to us to decide. I regret that this debate has led Minister Rupl to the fact that he is ironic even and possibly slightly offensive in this last performance, where he calls some of the major foreign policy experts, even the Prime Minister who is supposed to be leading the foreign policy. Of course, he leads it and, of course, there are experts from foreign policy here. There is no place for such irony and there is no need for such a matter. The debate on the economy and the situation of Slovenia was forced on our part by the Prime Minister, President Rope. We have talked about this for really five hours, from the appointment of the headmistress of a primary school to what, in some interviews, Minister Rupel makes clear to this particular position and to the party and to the Prime Minister that he does not want to cooperate with the opposition, but we have heard - here - Mr Janša has told us publicly that he has even invited him to some mysterious conversation. Apparently, it's a desire for some kind of cooperation. At least that is how I understood that you were invited to some - and then even Mr. Podobnik heard about this matter - that you were invited by President Rob to some parish for a mysterious meeting. This only tells me that he obviously wants to cooperate with the opposition if he invited you to a mysterious conversation and of course he also asked you not to talk about it, and so far you really haven't talked about it since I first heard you talk about it in public today. It is that the proposal for a solution has tried to be as worthy as possible, and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And let's just give him the benefit of the doubt. [[...]] But if anyone wants us to make an enormous circus out of it, it speaks more of them, of you than it speaks of the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Today I listened to the Prime Minister, who was put on his show, and when the word was applied to Dr. Ruple, he spoke respectfully about him. I listened to Dr. Ruple, who did not speak respectfully about the Prime Minister or spoke respectfully about his colleagues and colleagues with whom he shared a political liberal life for ten years. In the meantime, I listened to representatives of the opposition who spoke about everything and everything and in particular threw arrows at the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I would, of course, remind them that there is a 118th article in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is called interpolation. And if any of you are dissatisfied with the work of the Prime Minister and the governments themselves, you can collect 10, at least 10 signatures, and you can initiate an interpretation of the work of the government and of the individual minister in the National Assembly. However, he can, of course, press charges against the Prime Minister after Article 119 and, of course, if he is found to be illegal. Because the opposition's colleagues do not have the will and, above all, have no argument, the right arguments to accuse the Prime Minister of acting against the law and the constitution and given that they do not have an argument to dismiss it, they take advantage of the opportunity, the appointment or dismissal of the foreign minister. I am sorry to hear from the Foreign Minister, Dr. Rupl, especially from one perspective, because he will now walk with and walk with those with whom he has shared well for ten years, and no matter what he does, he will sit there, because he has accused us of political indiscretion with no argument. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And that wasn't politically hygienic. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u155	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The debate and decision on the proposal of the Prime Minister are constitutionally correct and possible. If, at the time of the request, I still doubted whether now was the most appropriate time, according to Dr. Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I understand that there was no other way. Above all, he believes that he has shown some arrogance to people he thinks are not mature and that they do not have the right to speak about their views on foreign policy, which is the case with my client colleague, Aurelia Juri. He did so in other cases, and I specifically did not want to talk about his bad side. Now I say that it is certainly inappropriate for him to leave this assembly before the debate and the vote is closed. I will not say demonstratively or not, but above all that he wanted to have himself all the time in his work now, a particular authorised position. He was not subject to government relations, nor was he subject to party relations, which is none of my business. In particular, it was not subject to the normal obligations and rights that every citizen has before the national authorities. He thought because Mr. Minister is Dr. Rupel that no one has the right to say anything to him and to conduct normal procedures. As far as I am concerned, I have not received any arguments on his part that would not convince me not to vote in favour of the proposed resolution with full peaceful conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Master of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will base my decision on the 114th Article of the Constitution, which gives the Prime Minister responsibility for the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and the coordination of the work of ministries. It was not possible to overlook the cracks, sparks, or conflicts that had been fought before. Or is it too late now, but it would really be irresponsible to think about it in order to replace the minister. It came in good time, given that misunderstandings have reached a level that no longer allows for further proper dialogue. However, since Minister Rupel mentioned the underestimation of the electoral body in his replies earlier, I would like to draw attention to at least two cases of underestimation from members of the national assembly who had different views from his own. Since I've made them public, I'm not going to say anything new right now. But let me point out that my differing view of the cultural agreement between Austria and Slovenia and what later proved to be the irregularity of the situation along with Radio Agora, despite high expectations of how well we handled this agreement, confirmed my scepticism at the time. And the same was true of the doubts I expressed at the time of Slovenia's entry into NATO. If anyone is reasonable, if anyone is intellectual, then he knows that the intellectual's doubt is inherent. And what's true of one, I hope it's true of the other. And I stand by this right, and these are the statements I make to Minister Rupl, and I doubt that his wishes for a patient dialogue with others are realistic. However, it also showed the degree of overestimation when it attributed to events in the Puppet Theatre the most fatal consequences for Slovenian foreign policy as regards Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you. I'm sorry the minister's not here because I was going to fix some of his statements. First of all, if not for a magnetogram, I said that the elf's statement was shameful because it was based on false evidence, but I did not offend the countries of the elf group. I also said that the cross bears this statement, not just the minister, but many others, that it carries the greatest weight. I wasn't talking nonsense about Croatia. I was talking facts. Until Dr. Drnovšek, as Prime Minister, took over the exercise in his own hands, nothing happened. It started happening when it happened. Polls about Nate showed that more than Minister Rupel tried to convince the public of this membership, there was less support, but it jumped the moment Djindjic was killed and Kučan, Stanovnik, Prodi, Fischer and someone else from the outside spoke in public. And last but not least, the argument that further strengthens me to vote in favour of resolution is that the only one in this Chamber that they are unitedly supporting is all three of the biggest opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The state and the ministries are not available to politicians and various deserving people, but, as Havel said in this Chamber at the time, the politicians are obliged to serve the country. From this point of view, I think it makes sense to talk about this issue of merit, and about people who deserve it. Dr. Ruplu and his, of course, can't deny the credit. Nor is it a problem for them to have credit for everything, even for what they do not have, nor is it wrong for them not to give credit to anyone in their circle. Today, for example, the new magazine and number 57 were mentioned here. I would remind you, for example, that Dr. Hribar was very demystified in a chamber when he said, "Punk was before and it was the key to a lot of things." But from this out there is the question of whether it is necessary to set up a convention for the Republic. The Republican Assembly is scheduled for the Constitutional Assembly. The Constitutional Assembly is the institution that I led and assumed that there is no democracy, that those who were in the NOB have no right to have power forever, but that it is necessary to change that. Does the Assembly of the Republic therefore feel that we do not have a republic and things today that are constituting the Republic?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Thank you very much. So, the Prime Minister began to list the economic successes of the Slovenian state as reasons for the discharge of Minister Rupl today, and he finished and ended it here a while ago, and if the journalists report to the Slovenian and the general public on this basis tomorrow, of course, they will be able to give the title as smoothly as they did, I think, "For the sake of economic performance, the State Assembly has resolved the foreign minister". Now, I don't know if this is really an economic success for all citizens as well as the Prime Minister has said here, I don't think in the vast majority of citizens. The president chose to answer some of the key questions and, of course, he missed out on a number of things. If I touched, say, the pensioners' issues, I could peacefully admit that in this mandate every Slovenian pensioner remained at two pensions and that this was the way the country saved between 30 billion and 40 billion Slovenian tolars a year. So this was the result of a law that DeSUS also supported with all its power. There's another one. It has been said that the opposition is working and advocating for the Foreign Minister. I think that it has been repeatedly highlighted and I am thinking that, in fact, we are working harder for the foreign policy of this country and for some credibility, and that three months before the elections, there is really no point in replacing the foreign minister in this way. It would be much better, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, if we were dealing with laws here today. We would have done much more than that if the government had come before this national assembly with this proposal for the discharge of the foreign minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you very much. One last debater. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u166	Thank you very much. If today we had a debate on the work of the foreign ministry and Slovenian foreign policy, of course the magnetogram of this meeting would be completely different and even the guards would suffer, so it would fly to this; only in order to discuss the foreign ministry without, of course, suggesting that the minister should be resolved. I fully agree that one sentence would suffice for such a resolution. The mutual trust that is urgently needed in the government has ceased, a solution is proposed, without all problems having to be solved and accusations against each other. This is similar to the separation in court, when dirty laundry is washed there, who is ever, what and how in marriage he did. However, we have heard almost the opposite, a little interpretation against the Prime Minister by the Minister, who is proposed for a discharge. The magnetogram shows what he was accused of and proposed and the proposal that the Prime Minister resign. This did not seem good to me, and if I repeat how worthy the three Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party are, by the way, to say good-bye here, to leave, to make their statements, and to remain in such a memory - at least to me for sure. Mr. Sok! When we voted two years ago on the budget rebalancing to save the pension fund, you were against - give that money to agriculture! These 60 billion for two pensions would, say, take agriculture. What would they say then? We would probably very much agree with that. These days I have prepared an interesting little sentence: "Don't dig another cave with a shovel lent to you by John Janša." There may also be some truth in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm closing the debate. We will proceed to the decision on the motion for a decision, so I invite everyone to the hall. In accordance with Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "Dr Dimitrij Rupel shall be dismissed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he conducts ongoing operations until the appointment of a new minister." Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Group of Members. The Slovenian People's Party's delegation will not support this proposal from the Prime Minister. First of all, we regret that, despite the time available to the Prime Minister, he has not answered the very clearly raised question of which elements the Foreign Minister acted in contravention of the guidelines given to him by the State Assembly or the Committee on Foreign Policy. Second reason. In our view, the Minister did not act in contravention of the Constitution and the laws. And especially: Dr. Rupel did not break the oath he had made twice in this place in the National Assembly. Second reason. In the field of foreign policy, the Minister acted professionally. Today, by the Prime Minister, we have not heard any argument that would convince us that he was an unprofessional foreign minister. This means that his discharge is detrimental to the Republic of Slovenia. Third time. In our opinion, personal reasons, mistrust is not an argument that belongs to the National Assembly, but that is an argument that belongs to the Authority of the LDS. The fourth reason. Private political engagement in internal political matters is also still within the framework of the current Constitution, which guarantees freedom of expression and public expression. And a final argument. In our firm belief, the Prime Minister does not have a mandate to politically assess the appropriateness of the political engagement of his ministers, certainly not as Prime Minister. He can only do this as the president of a government party. This is the five reasons why the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the settlement proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that a colleague of the majority has very much shaved on my word that we are actually in some strange situation. The situation, regardless of whether he refuses to accept it, is very unusual. It is not normal for two months before the elections to replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs or even bring this proposal to the State Assembly for consideration without any argument. In fact, the Prime Minister did not explain in writing, not today, twice in these interventions, why the Minister for Foreign Affairs represents an external policy which is supposed to be in conflict with the vision he has as President and the rest of the government. Therefore, we note that without any explanation this proposal is actually harmful for the Republic of Slovenia, that we will have major problems in the external world because we will have to say, and the media will not have to think otherwise than that they have come across something so that they do not understand each other in some unknown area. This is not how serious foreign policy works. And, Mr. Skull, it's very unusual, and that's not normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. In view of what has been said today, or how you work with your minister, I would probably even support the interpretation. Indeed, it seems to me that Mr Rupel does not belong to this government and to this party. Not because Rupel would move away from LDS. I have a feeling that, above all, for the last two years, LDS has moved away from the middle. Very far from the middle, Drnovšek has left, Rupel is leaving, and someone else is leaving. That doesn't really bother me. Far to the left is moving LDS, becoming impatient with others, to think differently. There's something else I'm worried about. In fact, Rupel is leaving, Pahor is leaving, individuals from this congregation are leaving, from this Slovenian political area, those with whom communication could be found were able to find a connection, an agreement, in important country-specific topics, but it was possible to find some consensus that went beyond the party situation. Less and less, gentlemen, there are these people, and that's not good. We'll see how it goes in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I myself will support this proposal for a solution, but not for the reasons given. These reasons, in my opinion, are also somewhat strange, of course, if we evaluate the proposal for a settlement in the time ahead, it is said, three months before the elections. I will support the proposal for resolution for the following reasons: infringement of Article 63 of the Constitution, violation of Article 124 of the Constitution, violation of Article 110 of the Constitution and violation of Article 153 of the Constitution. These are the articles or points that were in the interpretation proposed on 14 February 2003. These are also, in my opinion, the only valid arguments for resolution. Otherwise, to a stranger to our political situation, or just to a random observer of today’s session, it is likely that nothing is clear what we are doing here today. The Foreign Minister in some way criticises his own government, opposition or part of the opposition defends the minister. Then you have a feeling for a while that at the board meeting you are the biggest government party - chaos, total chaos. I think that this system needs to be changed, and I think that's also the lesson of today's story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u176	In fact, the entire course of the meeting showed that there were no true arguments for the discharge of the Minister. There was talk of anything. And if you remember very well, Mrs Veliškova, after the initial, opening statement by Mr Minister - including the chairman, Mr Pohorec was with him - I said: Mr Minister spoke about everything else, except the arguments for the discharge of the foreign minister, that is, activities in the foreign policy field. In view of the fact that he made his own arguments about how the government was successful, a number of arguments were, of course, triggered, as is not the case. And this actually led to the fact that in the beginning the Prime Minister abused this national assembly for this play. We should talk about responsibility or the work of an external minister. The fact that the Prime Minister personally disagrees with the Foreign Minister cannot be an argument for a discharge. There can be no personal relations, no personal moves aimed at foreign policy. How, though, do we imagine in the world that some personality, character moves will cause foreign policy to fall? This is unworthy of this state council. The only thing that can be drawn from all this is that the attempt to resolve these conflicts is that they should be resolved at the party level within the framework of the Liberal Democracy. That is why this National Assembly was actually misused for such purposes. I will not support the proposal, as I have already said. And I'd like to ask that in the future something like this doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u178	On behalf of the Group of Members. So this proposal by the Prime Minister will be supported by us because it is completely unfounded and because today this explanation has not been complemented by anything. And we say no! It is not normal to propose to replace the Minister without arguments. The Prime Minister has the right to propose a replacement, but he has no right to replace the Minister. In accordance with the constitutional order in force in Slovenia, this right is vested in the National Assembly. And because this is being discussed, there should also be arguments, and there were no such arguments. Many colleagues from government parties, including those who voted against the proposal to replace Minister Puharjeva - this was also proposed by the Prime Minister once, and they also voted against - saying that the Prime Minister has the exclusive right to choose his associates. Maybe! However, it does not have the exclusive right to exchange them because it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and because it is the decision of the National Assembly that the proposals must be substantiated. And the ministers, after the constitution, swear an oath, which is part of Article 104 of the Constitution, to respect the constitutional order, to follow their conscience and to act for the well-being of Slovenia. They don't swear to do it in such a way that the Prime Minister likes it in the first place, they don't swear anywhere. Slovenia has no chancellor system and in Slovenia ministers do not swear to the Chancellor or the Prime Minister. The chancellors swore an oath to another country in the middle of the last century, and that didn't go well. It would be good for you to remember that. This year, Slovenia celebrated the achievement of two key foreign policy milestones: entry into the European Union and NATO. And, no doubt, you've even admitted it yourself. This is where Dr. Dimitri Rupl is doing a great deal of credit to the achievement of these goals. And a few months after these goals have been achieved, the one who is credited with this credit is dismissed. That's another thing that's not normal here. You may not be aware, it may seem paradoxical to someone, but it is also with this proposal for a replacement, and with this debate today you have essentially set up a monument to Dr. Dimitri Rupl. After that, Slovenia will also remain in the European Union and NATO and the name of Dr Dimitrij Rupla will remain linked to both projects and to independence for history. The name of those who, at the most impossible time without arguments, suggest replacing it will be more or less forgotten than a temporary episode, as the name of someone who thought he had obtained the state of Slovenia in ownership by elections, and he forgot that he only got it in temporary management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u180	The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote in favour of the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve the Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Rupl. We recognize Dr Dimitri Rupla's successful participation in the government's current joint projects of this government, the coalition, as well as the National Assembly and many times in cooperation with other government parties. However, such cooperation does not give no one the right to have exceptional credit or the right not to participate within the government in a way that ensures proper relations within the government. Each mandate-holder has the right to consider that mutual trust relations have been scaled to the point that successful work could not be done, to propose a solution. Indeed, we have the right to adopt this proposal by the national assembly and Members and Members of Parliament, in accordance with our Constitution. However, we do not have the right to say that the proposal is illegal, that it is not defined, that it is not constitutional and similar to the things you are talking about today. And let me say one more. The government will operate for five more months, there will be no talk of three months, because the government will act even after the elections are held, and as long as the new National Assembly is established and the election of the mandate holder and the composition of the government is held. At best, it will certainly be five months, and this is a time for the government to be more effective than at a time when the National Assembly is also functioning. And one more thing. The only thing I would say is that I consider bad in all this debate, and my firm conviction and the conviction of the United Nations is that this has been provoked by Dimitri Rupel, but not by the Prime Minister, is that we have once again given all of us the opportunity not to talk about the problem, but that we are going from the second hour forward to pre-election agitation and debate on everything, not what the content of the proposal was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister has given us more than 95% of the introduction and his conclusion for a debate on his presentation of the economic results of his mandate. At least that's what he said. However, he spoke of the commutative growth of the last decade and said nothing about the added value that had taken place in his mandate. He was talking about debt, about investment, about employment, about Renault, but he did not say whether Mr Rupel was against his actions and results. In short, economic growth in this country, in my view, is not good, however, because they are increasingly among those countries that have not taken advantage of their opportunities, and we are a country that is increasingly being overtaken by other Eastern countries. That the situation in the country is not good and that it is critical, however, is confirmed by the statement made by Mr Pahor at the Assembly for the Republic when he said about: "We do not need radical change, but we need the government for two years to carry out reforms in order to do the garage and unpleasant work." In short, it's an economic problem. In fact, I would like to know what is more important for the Prime Minister and for this government coalition: whether it is understanding with Robbery and the poor results of the department or whether the good results of the department are more important and a little less understanding with the Prime Minister. In short, it's kind of unacceptable that after all this, it's so drastic to dismiss a successful minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Today's debate has clearly and unequivocally demonstrated that the Minister has carried out and implemented all the observations and objectives of the foreign policy defined by the National Assembly, so there are no arguments for a resolution. Under his leadership, Slovenian foreign policy has achieved the key strategic objectives of foreign policy, and I rightly wonder what Mr Rob thought when he said that Minister Rupel did not support the government's policy. What government policy, unknown to us, was Mr. Rop talking about? Some secret, illegal politicians? By saying this, Mr Rop acknowledged that his government is not subject to a policy and strategy defined and defined by the National Assembly, as Mr Rupel has consistently implemented this policy, as has been clearly established today, but this means that Mr Rop the demeanor is implementing a policy that is obviously directed by Forum 21, because he is attending their sessions. If such a violation of the Constitution is criticized and resisted by Mr Rupel, he should be commended. To praise that he respected the policy of the National Assembly and did not recognise the policy of a rich forum for rich people, which is directed against pensioners, against workers, against intellectuals, against the future of our children, and this policy sees and follows only profit for their cycle of bourgeoisie. To this policy, which Mr Rob so supports, although illegal to the government, is not only critical of Mr Rupel, but is already opposed by voters in the European elections and will be resisted even more uniformly in the autumn. Mr Prime Minister, you believe that you have made a huge mistake by accepting the instructions of the political boats to politically liquidate a minister representing Slovenian interests. Those to whom you want to please and worship now are "fuck" for Slovenian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Of course I won't support the resolution. Anyone who thinks otherwise in this country than the Liberal Democracy, the United List and a similar party is not a person who thinks otherwise, or a person who is not with us and therefore is against us. This is a man who, in your opinion, should be destroyed and be cast out of heaven. In fact, you are writing one of your Bibles, which sets out the rules of who is with us, who is not with us, must be beaten. A man with such qualities as Dimitrij Rupel should primarily enjoy the greatest reputation among you because he has the virtues, the human virtues that all of you here together do not have for half of him. But, since Dr. Rupel is not the only one who is or who will be chandelier today, Dr. Rupel is only one of the many whom you have dismissed, among them, others, also your colleague, who should be celebrating him, and you have sent him to the European Union, Borut Pahor, and I feel sorry for him, but you have done so yourself. Yeah, you just did it yourself because it's too much competition for someone who's been leading you anyway for years. Dr. Rupel didn't make the slightest mistake, neither one of them could tell him anything. During his period, you set him up with a whole affair about the diplomatic academy, from which he came out as a winner, as a man with a upside-down head, in contrast to you just because he proved to you that the instigation of the affairs that you're so terribly full of has no basis and are pussies. And these affairs are completely different from those you have on your back, and I'm not going to repeat the SIB and I don't know what. You know, every stick has two ends: one hits one, the other hits the other. Right now, for the sake of authority, you have it in that hand that beats. But believe me, today it's easy - whether you'll be in good will - it can be even the Jewish will of Diaca or the Young, if he even understands what "the will of the Jews" is. Last but not least, you know what? One laughs, another laughs, the last laugh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members will support the Prime Minister's proposal. In the opening presentation of the Group's position, we have stated that we recognize to the Minister the credits he has had in the wake of our country's independence, that we also recognize certain positive actions committed by the Foreign Minister and, above all, by the formation of our country in recognition. However, all of this still does not excuse the fact that within the government it can collide. If the government is a collective, then everyone has to work as a collective, so that the result is also optimal. I listened attentively to the debate, namely the Prime Minister and the Minister, and in the end, it comes to the conclusion that Mr Rupel himself has not begun to exclude the Prime Minister, but has in fact ruled out himself. It may be hard to understand in its own way, but unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be able to handle the collective work. We've decided to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is where I heard about rich people's forums. In my personal opinion, the forums of the rich are on one side and on the other, as far as I have been able to see in these last few months, only the political omen is different. I have also heard earlier about the parallel between the response of President Rope to the invitation of Forum 21 and the presence of Mr Rupl in the Forum for the Republic. Personally, I do not think that this parallel is appropriate, because I do not know that Mr Rob would preside over the assembly, which would argue that the government in which he sits should be replaced. That's what Mr. Rupel did. I'm sure that's the end of the Prime Minister's patience. With all due respect to Minister Rupl and in the light of his experience, I will support President Rob's proposal, because he is the only one who can assess whether he can continue to cooperate with the Minister or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Before I start, I'm gonna say, "Dimitry, think again, and step back!" In fact, many have told me in various debates that it is similar to a spoiled Ljubljana-based "pastman" who only plays for as long as everyone plays as he is prepared. When it's not there, then leave. And, of course, the history of his political engagement is in line with that. And I'll say one more thing. That by using his departure from parliament to help the opposition come to power, he convinced me that the Prime Minister was still right when he proposed, and we will decide. And I'm sure we'll make a good decision. The only thing I'm worried about or something that kind of surprises me is that the opposition is thus defending this powerful intellectual potential that you're going to get. That surprises me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The explanation for the dismissal of the Minister in five sentences, as sent to us by the Prime Minister, did not convince me that he was without arguments. Five sentences for the resolution of the elections three months before the elections, namely the minister, whom the citizens assess best, which is understandable, because during this time of his ministry we have reached the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy, including integration into NATO and the EU. And such five sentences of explanation are a sign of arrogance and a sign of impatience to ever other thinkers. This belief is particularly true because we have ministries that have been poorly evaluated by people in the poll, and the Prime Minister has never mentioned them for discharge. I could even say they're his favorites. I would mention, as one of these ministries, the Ministry of Health, which supports the Lumparija, which is called "a higher insurance premium over 60 years of age", with the support of the ruling coalition. Here I would particularly mention DeSUS, which should represent the interests of older citizens - at least they say so, but they do not. That's exactly the older population we'd be burdened with. In doing so, we would rescue a minister who is the most successful in his field. Of course, this is the opinion of the people that counts most. However, if you and the Prime Minister do not understand each other, this may be a recipe for good management of the current government. You probably won't say that the government is doing bad because one minister is soliciting and, in the opinion of the people, the best and has the best resources. That is why I will not support this explanation for dismissing the Minister in five sentences and, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u196	Thank you very much. In fact, I personally have no argument to defend Minister Ruple, for on this train, which apparently is heading in the wrong direction, he entered alone and helped himself to drive this government to this day. However, the argument that due to the Minister's participation in a public tribunal, where they spoke about the future of Slovenia, that this is the main argument for the discharge of the Minister, is that today we have heard more about the economic success of the government than anything else, and this seems to me far, far too little and, indeed, the Prime Minister has not given some valid explanation for the resolution. On the contrary! Here he also boasted, among others, 660 jobs to be developed in New Town by Renault, but if I remember correctly, there is actually Renault in New Town from the time of Titus. And it would be sad if the French did not notice the work and diligence of our Slovenian workers and workers, and that is probably the main reason and decision that they decided to increase or invest in Slovenia. And to answer Mr. Pohorc, because I didn't get a chance to replicate before, he called me. You know, pension issues cannot be resolved by allocation within the budget by taking farmers from eco-payments and giving them to pensioners. So, you made a mistake when you passed the law in December 2000, and then you "wet" it, and now with the budget, you would like to resolve it by redistributing it, and the opposition would find it guilty of the situation. You will, of course, have to attribute this to yourself and as DeSUS to take on your share of the responsibility that you have, of course, helped to shape in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u197	I'm asking nicely without controversy, because it's no longer possible to respond to allegations that might not hold. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u198	In the Slovenian National Party, as has already been said, we will support the resolution. Not for the reasons stated by the Prime Minister, but for the reason that this is the Prime Minister's proposal, but for the reason that we estimate that this is a confirmation of three-year warnings by the Slovenian National Party that the Minister, at the same time as the Government, did not work in the interest of the Slovenian people. What is clear and loud today is from completely unresolved issues with neighbouring Croatia and from the Minister's relations to the attack on Iraq, to the ecological zone, to the fishing zone, to finally the bilateral agreement, to the agreement between the United States of America and Slovenia on the non-delivery of American citizens. These are the explicit reasons and confirmation of the views and warnings of the Slovenian National Party of 3 years of age.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. I, of course, will not support this proposal for the resolution of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl. Not because of all the matters that the Prime Minister, of course, has identified in his explanation, because there was no explanation. In fact, there was no indication in the explanation of any error made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs; no error in his work as Minister. However, I am surprised by something else: that Minister Rob came to Parliament three months before the elections with a message that he could no longer cooperate with the current foreign minister. It is not, however, "hudir", as it is said at home, if you have been able to cooperate for 18 months, why the Prime Minister is burdening this national assembly and does not try to find another three months of dialogue with the Foreign Minister. That seems a crucial question to me! That it is necessary to burden this national assembly, this country with one simple conclusion that someone is not able to continue to establish the necessary dialogue only on a personal level, but not on a level that would be fatal or important for the country.Here I simply find that we are falling into a situation that is very poor, a bad example of establishing some normal relations both in visible positions, where we are, of course, like the most powerful parties - "All different, all equal." We are trying to deal with this difference, of course, even with patience, so I cannot accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Mr President, Master Rob was very unconvincing both in his written article and in his oral part of the exam and he now earned an assessment at the end of the school year, regrettably negative and should have come to the final exam in the autumn, but the teaching assembly would have given him this option, I believe, and he will have to repeat for the next four years the task which he has not done so far. Why was he very unconvincing? He was talking about balanced economic development, he was talking about financial balance, he was talking about the official world. Colleagues and colleagues, one of the opposition's colleagues, are indeed registered on a single call, the Minister's post of Director, meets all the conditions, but for several months he has been waiting for an answer and does not get it. The simple reason that this official world does not work only on professional criteria, but, unfortunately, obviously on political terms. And if we remember when Mr Rop was Secretary of State and took over privatisation and ownership - his product was minus 150,000 jobs. When he led the Ministry of Labour, family with a change in pension reform - his product is 65 years old and old to work, youth remains on the road and unemployed. And today, as Prime Minister, it is his product to bring this country and its citizens to ruin. That's why I'm not going to assist and give her a voice to such a self-sustaining coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Rupl, because he is supported by such colleagues and colleagues who, without any shame, declare here publicly that the Ministry of Health and Minister of Health, Dr Keber, favours higher premiums for older than 60 years set by the Mutual. That's a lie! And if they support Minister Ruple, people like that - God help us!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. Please, Mr. Anderlich is a man of his word. She's the only one who's got it. I'm asking you for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u206	It is obvious that this National Assembly is not capable of allowing this country to function normally. So when the Prime Minister's proposal is on the agenda to discuss it and finally to decide. Today, we are not talking about the character and the work of Minister Ruple, not any former minister, not anyone who has such or other merit, but who has ever been in the government. It's everyone and he'll sign up and put himself in history alone or he'll go to a history dump. We can't do much here, and we're not invited to discuss it here, not unprepared at all, at some point on the agenda. In the Liberal Democracy, we understand the responsibility of the government to the extent that it is necessary to provide the Prime Minister and the Government with the conditions prescribed by the law. The responsibility for coordinating and coordinating different government departments lies with the President of the country. Not every resource for itself and that every minister, as he says, can do as he thinks is best, but as is government policy. Very bad listeners would have been or would have pretended somehow not to listen to what was happening today at that convention. Anyone who has not identified this obvious difference in the functioning of the government, in the functioning of the state, if you wish, including this national assembly and the inability to act in a coordinated manner - I did not want to discuss the work of the Minister, because this is not necessary at this time, because the proposal has been tabled by the Prime Minister, he has justified it and I will define myself to it. However, I was very sad at the moment when, in his role as foreign minister, he could declare: the visit of the Prime Minister in the United Kingdom to the Prime Minister is a minor matter, but of course participation in this or that rally of truth is important. If this is so, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs can say about his work, about the Prime Minister, about his mission, what is important and what is not - but the representation of this country anywhere, should be the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister or anyone else in the first place. And, of course, there would be no doubt, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, that we will unitedly support the proposal for a resolution and believe that all things within the party will be settled ourselves; unfortunately or gladly, we do not have a problem with Mr Rupl as far as cooperation on the party's organs is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague and a colleague! Let me also define how I will vote. Certainly the Prime Minister's proposal. I won't support the robbery. I was determined to do so at 2 p.m., as was most of you gathered here. But I listened attentively to the Prime Minister at the opening performance and also at the end of the discussion, and that was when I actually pictured him interpreting the achievements so vehemently, how the debt had been reduced, how domestic and foreign investments were growing; in short, how beneficial it was and how great achievements were behind us. I don't know where, so in Slovenian Gorica and in this area of Slovenia 100%, colleagues and colleagues, it's not like that. Thus, craftsmen, larger entrepreneurs, farmers, pensioners tell me that it is different to be choked by tax policy. In short, something doesn't go together, the data that the Prime Minister transferred here probably isn't real. So I will not support this proposal proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Before we go to the vote - Mr Kelemina would like to explain my vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. In fact, I can hardly believe what I am hearing today from the ruling coalition or Members of the ruling group. Everything you're saying today looks just like we're abandoning the Minister of the Opposition, not the Prime Minister, the government majority. And after all this, it is indeed necessary to ask why and for what reasons Mr Rupel was appointed foreign minister and who appointed him. He appointed and invited Mr. Janez Drnovšek to the government. I hope that Mr Janez Drnovšek was a credible person in the Liberal Democracy and even today in Slovenia; he represents something and means something. And he invited Mr Rupl to the government for an external minister for one typical reason, and I am firmly convinced that because Mr Rupel is a credible person, he is also a person with some authority and was probably, at that time, the only one of Slovenia was able to somehow cross or overcome certain differences that actually ruled in all areas in this country, and also to achieve those goals that Slovenia has set in the long term - that is, entry into the EU and also entry into NATO. And Mr Rupel certainly made his contribution. Today, you leave him as the greatest enemy of this country, as an incompetent person, as a person who simply needs to be erased and forgotten. I think you are doing a bad job and if you make such an orthodox decision as you are likely to decide today - I think this is also extremely negative for the future of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u212	What Mr. Kelemina says, no one said. I will support the proposal, not because I am convinced by the Prime Minister, not because I am convinced by my colleagues in the coalition, but because I have been persuaded by my colleagues all these years ago to defend it. He was criticized as a mayor, as an ambassador, as a minister in various ways, he was subjected to insults, incompetence, intolerance. Some even vowed never to deal with him again. See: "Dear Mr Dimitrij Rupel, I will not use your methods and take you back with a fascist and a non-democracy. For me, you're simply a person who can't do without a master, and when he finds him, he's willing to spit on anyone who doesn't like the master at the moment. I won't deal with you anymore." Mr. Janez Janša, you convinced me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-05-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Now I think we can move on to a vote on the proposal for a decision. Allow me to read the content of the decision once again so that there are no misunderstandings. We will vote on the following proposal for a decision: "Dr Dimitrij Rupel shall be dismissed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he conducts ongoing operations until the appointment of a new minister." We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 75 of us present, 50 Members and Members voted against 22. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 22.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that Dr Dimitrij Rupel has been dismissed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Dear Members and honourable Members, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to thank Dr Dimitri Rupl very much for his cooperation so far and wish him a successful work to come forward. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will move on to agenda item 2 which is the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Mr Iv Wigel as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you all so much and good night!
