ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I wish everyone a good day. Between us, I very much welcome representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič from 16:00 on, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Jelko Kacin, Franz Kangler, Peter Levič, Alojz Peterle, Valentin Pohorec and Dušan Vukko from 17:00 on. We're moving to 2. That's a first-hand proposal for a law on income. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 11 Members, with France's first-signed Tsukjati, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. I would like to invite the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Mumorr, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable President! You have before you a proposal for a new Income Act, which is a law on taxation of the income of natural persons. The law is part of a package of laws in the framework of tax reform. The proposal for a law began to be prepared at the professional starting points at the Ministry of Finance years ago. This is a very difficult subject and the first comprehensive working text was prepared in 1999. The text has been complementary and coordinated over the years, including through the assistance of foreign experts, such as the OECD and the International Monetary Fund. The final proposal for the Income Act was prepared in July 2003 and since then intensive coordination has been carried out at all levels, until the text of the draft law has been set out in the Government on 16 December of the previous year. It was thus coordinated with all the ministries and all interested associations and groups, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, the Chamber of Culture, the Student Organization, the Family [[?]] initiative, Banka Slovenije, association of management companies, association of members of the stock exchange, association of banks of Slovenia, unions, farmers, society of journalists, religious communities and so on. Discussions with interested groups were also held within the framework of the sectoral ministries. The law was also discussed in the Economic and Social Council, which it supported. There are several reasons for the adoption of the new Income Act, honourable Members and Members. Let me just list the most important. The relatively high overall burden on the income of natural persons, in particular the income from work, the changed situation in the way natural persons earn income, the amended legislation governing the income and status of natural persons, the need for greater adjustment of the income system to internationally comparable standards and regulations of the European Union, the implementation of the four decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the uneven distribution of tax burdens, making the debtors more burdensome from tax-intensive forms of income to less burdened, for example, the available net income for the monthly average annual wage is 64.2% and for the student income is 93.8%. Therefore, the main objectives of the new law are: The overall burden on the debtors, in particular those in the minimum income classes to be fully decommissioned, up to the minimum income. Secondly, the tax burden on labour income in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to provide new jobs, and a more equal and transparent tax treatment of incomes and a more even distribution of tax burdens between debtors. Available data for 2002 show that currently in Slovenia the wage burden for an employee is higher than on average in the European Union by two percentage points. The proposed Income Act will lead to a 1.9% tax burden in Slovenia and will move closer to European Union level. The proposal takes into account basic principles, tax principles such as: In principle, taxation covers every income of a natural person, the same treatment is given to taxpayers in the same economic situation, and the tax burden is distributed progressively according to the level of income by increasing the rate of taxation at the level of income. The following basic elements of the rules governing the taxation of the income of natural persons are derived from the objectives and principles shown. Firstly, maintaining the taxation of all incomes of natural persons with one tax is an income. Secondly, the unit of taxation remains an individual. Thirdly, the principle of taxation of residents by world income and not residents by source of income in Slovenia is consistently established, as used in OECD countries. Fourthly, an extension of the tax base has been established. The interest on bank deposits, debt securities and other similar financial claims, and thus a more equal treatment of capital income, should be highlighted among the untaxed revenues to date, which will subsequently be taxed. The proposed solutions provide for an exemption in the form of an annual untaxed interest of a total of 300,000 tolars and a transitional period in which interest will be partially covered at the beginning of the tax base. With regard to the taxation of interest, proposals were made to exclude interest from the total taxation of all the taxpayer's income and their taxation by proportional tax after deduction. Given that the starting point of taxation of an individual is also the progressive and increased burden of capital, this possibility has not been taken into account in the drafting of the law and that the issue of international tax competitiveness in this area resolves the transitional period. With regard to the taxation of capital gains, it is proposed to extend the ownership deadlines for cases of significant shares and for cases of non-residential movements in which profits are taxed. In this way, more tax revenue than capital is charged. The area of agricultural taxation, cadastral income, is the only tax base for agricultural and forestry income under the existing law. It only reflects income from market sales and income from other sources is not covered by taxation. The proposal for a law therefore includes payments for agricultural policy measures, so-called subsidies which are rapidly increasing in scope, among agricultural and forestry revenues. It is expected that the tax base of the taxpayers, which is also attributed to the subsidy income, will double on average. However, for most taxpayers who now have a tax base, the proposed changes will not constitute a higher tax burden, as a result of the increase in general relief, it is more important to increase the tax base from agriculture and forestry only on large farms that actually obtain such subsidies. Fifth. The type of income and the manner in which it is taxed will be determined in particular taking into account the status of the natural person or the relationship on which it will acquire income and the nature of the income, the so-called active and passive income. In this context, it is important to change the tax treatment of so-called authors' fees. Authorised fees represent a special phenomenon with regard to taxation in Slovenia, which is not detected in other countries' tax systems, where there is a clear distinction between copyright incomes as property rights or passive incomes and incomes from performing copyright work as an active income of an individual. The law follows this logic. The main problem has been the area of culture in the debates, and a solution has been sought for the self-employed in culture in a special way for all who are self-sustaining in the field of cultural activities. This relief retains approximately the same tax situation in relation to the current regime. Six. Certain rules are laid down to prevent tax evasion. It's a week. The change in inflationary mechanisms has been introduced, with a view to the projected reduction of inflation, the indexation of the scale and the facilitation within a given year has been abolished and a fixed rate of income is proposed for a year in advance so that the taxpayers can already establish their tax liability for the current year. Eight. The income scale has been changed from the current six to five, the lowest income rate has been reduced from the current 17 to 16%, and the highest rate remains unchanged at 50%. Nine. Changes in the relief system have been made. The law proposes the following standard reliefs. The general relief intended for all debtors is set at the minimum cost of living for an adult and is thus significantly increased. Special benefits for disabled persons with 100% physical impairment, pension recipients, compulsory disability insurance and recognition benefits, and for persons over 65 years of age. A special relief to support family members is set at the minimum cost of living for the child and increases with the number of children, and special reliefs, facilitates students and facilitates self-employed people in the culture I have already mentioned. In this context, most of the discussions were related to the scope of the special relief intended for child supporters. Child relief is set at minimum cost of living for a child over 15 years of age who is 80% of the minimum income for an adult. The amount of the relief will be increased by the number of children by 34,400 tolars for the other and each further child. The proposed regime is justified by a Constitutional Court decision, through international practice, with other direct transfers, by the fact that maintenance costs for each further child do not increase and the conclusion that the management of family policy through tax reliefs does not achieve the desired objectives, due to the limitations of the tax system. The simulation of the new income system showed that 93.1% of the debtors who made the child benefit will improve the net income situation. 6% of those in debt will remain in the same income position, 0.9% of those in debt, 2 000 795 in debt will be slightly worse due to the change in the income system. From the state budget and municipal budgets in 2003 there were various family benefits and parental benefits - a child allowance, a child care allowance, a large family allowance, a parental allowance, a regression in kindergartens - earmarked for 113.8 billion tolars, which is almost 50% of the total income realized this year. As a result of the application of child benefits, the income realised was reduced by almost 13% in 2001, by 37.3 billion. In the new income system, income for children will be reduced by 16%, according to 41.8 billion. Ten years. In addition to standard incentives, the law also proposes reliefs related to the actual investment of a natural person for certain purposes, namely voluntary supplementary pension insurance, additional health insurance, contributions for various purposes, investments aimed at the resolution of the housing problem and the maintenance of the apartment or apartment house, the purchase of works of art, beauty books, audio-visual content carriers and cultural monuments, for tuition, the purchase of textbooks and professional literature relating to education under publicly recognised educational programmes, internet connection and the purchase of terminal equipment, for memberships of political parties and trade unions and for paid amounts of self-contribution. These reliefs are maximumed by 2% of the annual taxable base and replace the current 3% relief. The law also provides for incentives for debtors who have income from carrying out their activities, whose aim is in particular to promote investment and employment of more difficult persons and investments for certain other purposes. Dear Members and Members! The bill foresees that the tax burden of natural persons will be reduced by approximately 9.5% and 35 billion tolar respectively. The tax burden of natural persons in Slovenia will on average be reduced for the most taxable persons in the lowest income classes. In 2002, on average, each taxpayer paid 276,000 510 tolls of income and, on average, 250 thousand 393 tolars were paid under the bill. The most tax-burdened taxpayers are 50 % of the average wage, which was about 30%. On average, their tax burden will decrease by about 40.8%. Taxpayers for income between 50 and 100% of the average wage were 44.8%. On average, their tax burden will be lower by 19.4%. Interested in income between 100 and 150% will fall by about 8.9% and between 150 and 200% by 4.78%. The average effective tax rate, expressed in terms of the income-tax ratio, is estimated to fall from 11.6 to 10.5%. In the first tax grade, about 62% of taxpayers are estimated and their average effective tax rate will decrease from 5.5% in the system to 3.3% in the proposed legislation. I estimate that at the highest tax rate, 0.7% of all taxpayers will be taxed, with an average effective tax rate of 29.6%, which is approximately the same as under the applicable income system. The law will apply after the proposal on 1 January 2005. However, the provisions of the Articles relating to the EU acquis will apply from 1 May 2004, that is, from the date of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. For these reasons, I propose that the proposal for a law be supported as a suitable basis for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to add that this is an extremely important law in which subjecting itself to aggressive but unjustifiable demands of individual stakeholders could endanger or dilute Slovenia's long-term financial stability and thus the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Minister, for further explanation of the bill. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The two members of the group notified the replacement. In place of Mr Pohorc, Mr Kebrič will present the position of the Group of Members and, instead of Mr Bernik, Mr Bajuk. I therefore invite the representative of the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Kebrić, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, your coworkers, colleagues, colleagues and others! I will briefly explain the position of the Member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the abbreviation DeSUS. We have before us a new proposal for a law on income, which is an integral part of the so-called tax legislation. A good month separates us from the entry into the European Union, the European Association, which has taken its new political steps on the basis of economic inter-state ties, with the aim that the economies of the Member States at that time would not be in an unequal position between themselves, particularly as regards conditions of business and mutual mobility The political consensus has begun to harmonise, including tax legislation. This has enabled today's single European market, which we are entering, and whose rule is not only that we must respect, but we must also take it. However, the precondition for this is also the harmonisation of the legal system with European legislation, and of course also with tax legislation. What's the receipt? The Slovenian Book Language Dictionary defines income as income tax. Income, however, is defined as the sum that a person receives for his or her work at a certain time, as well as for his or her assets. It's usually expressed in money, but it's not necessary, so I'll talk about it later. From the point of view of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, which is a declared social party, the proposal for a law on income is of exceptional importance, a special substance from which we conclude that we can foresee a global financial direction for the applicant and a consistent taxation, which is more and less burdened by income. In the case of value added tax, of course, all citizens are in an equal position, as they all pay the same tax rate. In doing so, it is a matter of income that those layers that have more or receive more and earn more, regardless of the merit on the one hand, and many times there is no merit when such and other laws are played or circumvented or certain holes are found. This way, we can understand the Government's commitment to meeting EU standards and the search for new tax resources, taking into account the need for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We therefore support the concept of tax burden on individuals according to the level of income and personal circumstances, of course taking into account the social component. Therefore, it is important not to forget those strata of the population that, given their low incomes, are very difficult to live. In this context, we welcome the proposal that the tax rate for the first lowest class, which represented as much as 66.77% of taxpayers in 2002, should be reduced by 1%, now from 17% to 16%. The tax rate is also reduced by the second tax grade, by 2%, from the current 35% to 33%. That sounds very nice, and the picture in the table gives a slightly different impression. What's this all about? The point is that the former first tax grade had a base of 1.403.322, and now this base is reduced because this class has been abolished and is next, so now the new first class is only 1,065.112. This results in a monthly income of only 88.759 Slovenian tolars. The previous income of 1.403.322 is now in the second grade, although it is reduced from 35% to 33%. The bill before us is based on the principle of general tax liability. Therefore, taxation in principle covers any income of natural persons, irrespective of the source of that income. For this concept, the DeSUS Group has always taken over, as it has always demanded a comprehensive collection of taxes and contributions from all incomes. In the debate we had with the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, we also highlighted the problem of authorial fees among others. We believe that copyright fees are particularly interesting because they are income that is significantly less burdened than other forms of active income. That practice is inadequate, which we have long warned of, as it leads to a less favourable tax treatment of persons who perform work or services having the nature of the copyright work. Let us also say that in other comparable countries, the authors do not have passive income status, but we therefore welcome the proposed solution that will finally settle the matter in this direction. This is Article 26 of the bill. As far as the taxation of interest is concerned, it seems to us that it is socially correct to set the amount of untaxed work, which will make most small savers, where there are very many pensioners, even in the future, untaxed earnings. This implies Article 103 to the amount of 300,000 sieves per year. We believe that this amount would be appropriate to further encourage savings in the economy, and that we would also be valorising it annually with a percentage of the increase in the cost of living last year. Pensioners are interested in recalculating what will bring them a revised way of calculating income from current gross pensions on the net. With regard to facilitations, we welcome the solution that foresees an increase in overall relief from 11 per cent to 17.2 per cent and an increase in benefits for one and two children. But it is not clear to us and not reasonable why reliefs are being reduced for the third and fourth children. We are aware that tax relief cannot be a special stimulus for greater fertility. Increased fertility should be stimulated by a child’s supplement. Therefore, it would be necessary for at least the third, fourth and subsequent children to remain the same relief as for the first two. In addition, the proposal reduces the total tax relief, Article 113, from 3% to 2%. We believe that these matters should be reconsidered and corrected in the legislative process. In particular, I ask you, Mr. Finance Minister, tell me where the meetings are. We believe in the parliamentary group that the meetings should also state exclusively that they belong to the income base from which the income must be paid. We believe and stress that this should also be mentioned exclusively. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that this bill is suitable for further consideration and we are already predicting [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the examinations tried to improve the text submitted by means of certain amendments. [[...]] Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. I would like to invite Dr. Andre Bajuk to present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. A very nice greeting to all, including the representatives of the government who are accompanying us today at this meeting. Tax reform. Amendments to the Income Act, which we have here today at first reading, together with the Law on Taxes on the Benefits of Legal Persons, with amendments to the Law on the Tax Procedure, which, if I am not mistaken, is exactly yesterday in this National Assembly, and not least proposed, but quite changing changes in the field of health insurance represent a whole of a unit called the Tax Reform. Of course, we have also done some of this because the government is proposing this and that is why we are also on the agenda of this national assembly, due to certain changes and additions that are supposed to be needed in order to comply with the European acquis. The question that arises in itself is: Does Slovenia really need tax reform, why does it need tax reform? The tax system in any country is not an abstract structure that is supposed to be based on models designed by economists, an economic profession over a decade, but must and must always be based on the specific reality of a particular company. And what is the essence of our reality regarding the tax system? The fact that we're a transition state. The country in which many things have already changed and is still changing in the social, political and economic fields. In the economic field, these changes are an essential feature of these changes, which have been and are still a transformation of social property. What did this transformation of social property bring us? What every Slovenian, every Slovenian, understands and realizes, is some great concentration of capital. The concentration of capital in the hands of a small group of people. As a result of this, social disintegration has not yet been known by Slovenia in its history. And in this context of our reality, we have a tax system which, in its essence, will not change in its most pronounced characteristics. What the government represents to us, to this national assembly and to the Slovenian public as a tax reform, will in essence not change the essential characteristics of the tax system. And what is that? International comparisons of our tax system and all tax systems clearly show the fact that Slovenia is at the lowest place in all developed countries, as regards taxation of capital revenues, and we always find it among the highest when we look for how countries tax their income from work. This is the characteristic of our tax system. And that characteristic will not change in its essence. You have just heard from the Minister of Finance who has repeated what we already know, namely that these two laws, the Income Act and the Law on the taxation of the profits of legal persons, will result in 35 billion less earnings in one area and 25 billion more in the other. This in itself will not change the essential facts. Slovenia's so-called tax reform will still be a country that taxes the least on capital revenues and most of all, but among the highest when labour taxes occur and, in particular, the middle layer. In Novi Slovenija we advocate such a tax reform, which will substantially change this characteristic of the Slovenian tax system. In particular, it is a matter of redistribution of the tax burden both in such a way that we will no longer find Slovenia in the lowest place concerning capital taxation and among the highest places when labour income is taxed. That's an essential question. This objective, as I have already mentioned, will simply not be achieved by the laws of the so-called government tax reform, although Mr Prime Minister and the whole government are still trying to create an image, as I mentioned yesterday, of a looting knight who takes money from the rich and gives it to the poor. As I mentioned yesterday, that was Robin Hood. But others around the world call people who act the other way around. Mr President immediately said that you don't have to be that bad. Clearly, he does not care that this opposition does not endanger this project in this national assembly, given its size. Of course not. However, I am sure that he will still be surprised at how badly an average Slovenian citizen and citizen can be, when he really understands the scope and actual truth behind the beautiful words and the deliberately complicated professional proposals. The fact is that this tax reform proposed by the government will not change this essential situation of Slovenia and our tax system, that not all that is proposed is nothing more than the continued protection of transition rich people, those who have enriched overnight and who will continue to look at us and treat us with a smile. The proposed Income Act comes into consideration without any real justification based on comprehensive analysis of all available data, thus allowing responsible decision-making in this National Assembly. In the first half of January, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy unanimously adopted the decision and requested the Government to do just that. It is extremely irresponsible, however, that it was only last night that, in the evening of this debate, we practically received some information from the bench, which, of course, we also have to study. I myself witnessed the explanation of Minister of Finance, Dr. Mumorr, and you have just heard that this process of preparing this tax reform started there in 1999, in 1999. Now, there are explanations and certain data that are essential for us to be able to make a responsible decision in this national assembly, but it comes on the eve of the public, this first reading of this law. I cannot accept the idea that such data and analyses have been prepared by a government group behind the back of the Slovenian public for five years without this data, of course it has. However, this did not come on the day and did not inform the general public in time. What does that mean? In addition to the fact that this is clear evidence of the relationship of the executive power towards this national assembly to the Slovenian Parliament, it is, above all, evidence that the government is not prepared for this tax reform to be the subject of some extensive public debate, an argumented debate that the Slovenians will only decide whether we are satisfied with the way we put things in this decade under the rule of the Liberal Democracy or not. Everything's gonna go back to the way it was. Regardless of extensive professional and misplaced discussions. I would like to focus on what we consider to be the most controversial part of the proposed law in Novi Slovenija and the Slovenian Coalition. As I mentioned, the characteristic, the essential feature of the tax system in Slovenia is that we are in the lowest place, as regards taxation of capital revenues, capital gains. And what does this law suggest? This law proposes, in its essence, that everything be maintained as it was. Regardless of the words and the various articles that are meant to correct this matter in some way. But if something is a millimeter step in the right direction, it's only to be able to speak, but the point won't change. And what is it, exactly? Capital gains are now taxed in Slovenia only if realisation occurs if materialised in the first three years, with 13% [[?]] Level. However, if this is done, it materializes later and after three years, the tax rate is zero. This principle will be maintained. Of course, there is a new figure in Article 89, and this is a large proportion that I have not yet found elsewhere in the world, even in Europe, that they do not know. But what's behind it? Regardless of the complexity of the text, what is hidden there is practically eliminated in Article 143. Why does it destroy itself? However, since it states that this is only true that all these things will apply only if the removal of, for example, property acquired before 1 January 2002 is not taxed, the removal of the bulk of the share obtained before 1 January 2002 is not taxed. That's what we say, what we write down with our right hand, we wipe out quickly with the elbow and everything will go as it was. What's all that? Those gentlemen, those people who, in the transition process over the night, were immeasurably rich and who are the reason and source of social dispersion in Slovenia, those gentlemen, because they acquired it before 2002, will not be burdened, will not be taxed. Do you really think, dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government, that we Slovenians are really so illiterate that we don't understand this? There's no way we can understand all of this. Let me go on with other key things. If this is not a major change, then for nothing we can worry about how to create other options, right through our fiscal policy. We cannot forget that we are the society that created what it is in the transition process, these are the facts. And there is one minimum principle that everyone understands and I hope, and I am sure that the government understands it too, ladies and gentlemen, funds, money should be searched where it is, not where it is not. That's very simple. It's very simple, and you don't have to be any financial expert to understand that, and because money has to be searched where it is, not where it's not. And the government has consciously decided not to seek and will protect the capital tycoons of transition even in advance. If that is not the case, then we cannot open a debate on how we might otherwise have dealt with in Slovenia, for example, a tax system that is supposed to be nice to the family, and I have already discussed this on behalf of New Slovenia in this National Assembly, when I asked the Prime Minister about the government two months ago. Can we do that? Of course you can, but we need to unload where the burden is too high and load where it is not enough. For example, in Nova Slovenija we oppose changes in child-relief and we will take a strong stand for this, we are confident that Slovenia can do this in this tax system, and that it must also keep this, but we are worried much more than that. We are concerned about the whole relief system, which now falls from 3% of the tax base to 2%, in which, of course, we have a long number of things that we can write off, but then the scissors come, 2% only, and the other not. One wonders what is the biggest problem of Slovenian young people today. Can they sign off on mortgage interest, of course, but only for 2%. Why not also in Slovenia have a system as they know it elsewhere in the world, where at least for young families the possibility of all relief of mortgage interest for their own home is opened. Why? Since owning a home is a social property, it is a social value that we must realize. Why can't we do this and we can't? Since we have already decided in advance, at least in this government proposal, that the Slovenian state will protect capital tycoons of transition, therefore it is not possible to do so at present, but it is possible. We're doomed to maintain it in advance. Let me do another problem while we're at ease. Our relationship to finance or civil society. Can one individual decide to give part of his resources, for example, to institutions recognised by law to care for the common good? Yes, of course you can, but again the 2% now instead of 3%. This suggests a very interesting relationship between the government and the people. Why don't people have more words where their money should go? What do we have? We do not have civil society in the sense that it is actually an expression of the will of individuals and people, but we still have a centrally planned civil society of various institutions that lose 50% of their time by keeping species from different ministries and applying for money from the budget. Could such a thing be introduced in Slovenia? Of course we could, but only if we can redistribute the tax burden as they know it elsewhere in the world. And as I mentioned earlier, a more family-friendly tax system, let me mention it. Why in Slovenia we have such a system where, under certain conditions, it is worth it to someone to get there as soon as possible, because then they pay less together. Why do we not have such a system in Slovenia where the family, the family recognised as a tax unit, and that the spouses have the opportunity to issue a common family statement instead of an individual? They know this in Germany, they know this in the United States of America, and in Slovenia we can talk about this. When will it be the right time for us to start talking about these things? Let me also mention our position on the new form of taxation of Slovenian agriculture. According to the proposal now in plenary, all other revenues from the whole system should be counted among the new tax sources in addition to the cadastral income. We are convinced that prior to the introduction of such a way of taxation we should redefine cadastral income and, above all, agree on two ways of taxation, given the size of the other activity of agriculture. In our view, flat-rate taxation should be maintained for our farms as in the EU Member States, while for farms with more intensive production and higher income, simple accounting should be introduced. Thus, agricultural production operators could enforce a reduction in income at the cost incurred. In some context, farmers could decide for themselves how to pay the tax. Such a system is known, and almost all European Union countries, which are separated from farms where farming is a basic activity, and farms, which constitute an additional activity. Why do we not want to have an open, reasoned debate about these things? Since this has been in preparation for five years, it will come under swift procedure, as soon as possible, without justification, without public debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Surely, given the situation of the political forces in this national assembly, this proposal, as well as the entire package of so-called tax reform proposals, will certainly be voted out. The voting machine will do its part. But there is no voting machine and there is no voting to erase the political responsibility not only for the tax system we have today, but also for these changes, the so-called changes that are being proposed today. Political responsibility remains and I am confident that the day will begin in Slovenia, where we can talk openly and clearly about how to redistribute the tax burden and create from this second of ours a fairer society than it has been in this decade under the rule of Liberal Democracy and with transitional impossibilities and, say, bob beans, barbarians in the transformation of social property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Dr. Bajuk, we are dealing with the law on a regular basis, and the speed is gone, and as a matter of urgency, it is not in the process. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government and distinguished colleagues! Of course, the new Income Act was an important, so-called second pillar of the first phase of tax reform, whose primary objective was to tax capital income and tax less labour income. As we considered the first of the two laws, the law on corporate income tax, we could see that Slovenia's publicly declared goal would remain among the most, it is said that capital will still remain among the least-taxed state incomes and work still among the most. In fact, these changes are not about a radical change, they are not about reform, they are about a certain correction that cannot be called a reform, and this is also the first basic comment of the Slovenian Democratic Party that tax reform needs to be addressed comprehensively in the package of all laws that have an impact on this area, but not gradually without clearly defined concrete objectives and, of course, the ways and effects of these measures at all levels of taxation. We requested at the January session an analysis of the effects of this so-called Income Act, but unfortunately we only got these effects yesterday, which are shown very, not superficially but flawedly. And from this it is very difficult to assess the actual effects, which will be visible only over the years. And today, I promise the Prime Minister and also the Finance Minister, it's not just a matter of believing. Let me substantiate this with some information. See, the fact is that the effect of lower, so-called global tax changes due to an increase in general tax relief cannot be believed without data, without data, this is said without full analysis. Because at the same time, the government is also changing the scale to classify the taxpayers as new taxpayers. For example, six classes, there will be only five new ones. And in the new first class there will, of course, be fewer taxpayers. It is very clear that 16% of the tax rate will be taxed on those who have a tax rate of up to a million 154 thousand 477 tolars, but of course all of those between a million 145 thousand and two million 242 thousand who have now been taxed with a 17% tax rate will be taxed after a new 33% tax rate. In short, the impact of such changes will result in the number of taxpayers who have fallen to the lowest tax rate being lower and, of course, the proportion of those who are taxed higher than before will increase and will cross the threshold of the second tax rate. I think that these effects are not all-immulation and, of course, the government has shown nowhere in its analyses. For the government shows only the effect on the minimum wage, the effect on the average wage and the effect on the three average wages. It is not right that these groups of people who have fallen into a new tax rate and who have been old in the first tax rate and will be significantly more taxed by more than 18% and 16%. A special chapter, which deserves great criticism from the Slovenian Democratic Party, is tax relief for children. Of course, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the government is, and some attempts have already been made before, exempt from taxation the amount that the parent devotes to children to provide a minimum of living life, which is defined here. However, I think it is a big, big mistake to abolish the progressive rate of tax relief for all the following children. I think that even if Slovenia, who puts on knowledge, on development, on the specificity that will identify us in the future European space, this is man and his qualities, I think that we should be significantly more concerned in this area in terms of education, in the sense not least of the aids that strengthen the intensity of the development of the young man, the child, but not of the fact that we are confined here only to food, clothing and to these very minimum needs of life, which, of course, do not give to the child what we all swear as the strategic priority of our country. I therefore believe that this basic level is too low, that it does not cover some important categories for the Slovenian future, such as, once again, educational aids and other equipment for the development of the child's intellect and, of course, does not maintain the already established progressive rates of tax relief. Thus, of course, more families will be at a disadvantage, which is illogical, completely illogical. And, of course, we strongly oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and in this regard we will also prepare amendments for the second reading. A third important reason for the proposed changes is that the income situation of all taxpayers will improve globally is also in reducing the tax relief from the individual tax rate from the current 3% to 2%. I cannot understand what the ministry has led to this, but I think that this reduction is precisely saying that individual investment will be reduced either for humanitarian purposes or in increasing the level of healthcare and the like and we are opposed to it. Of course, taxation of capital profits is a particular problem with this law. In the case of taxation of profits from sales or removals of shares or shares, or, yes, to date, the arrangements should remain in place, with the effect that, in so far as these shares are sold after three years, this is taxed by an advance of 30% and, of course, later by the tax rate at which the taxable person falls. However, in the event of capital withdrawal, irrespective of the general arrangements, this is said to be the case, but these so-called majority owners, whose capital gains are to be taxed after a period of three years. Therefore, those who wish to avoid such a rule must ensure that their own share of capital is broken down sufficiently early enough by inviting additional shareholders into society and thus ensuring that the critical share falls below 10% in capital or by ensuring that transactions are carried out through companies where there is no dominant share. Or it is desirable to do so, but of course we can be very doubtful. The provisions on job conservation introduced by the proposed legislation on capital gains are also likely to be ineffective. If a person wants to sell a company and is threatened with job cuts, he must only ensure that the number of employees is reduced accordingly before the sale, he is also paid to withdraw capital from society and in other ways, which is tolerated by the law. However, the main indication of the predominant shares is the destimulation of the establishment of new small enterprises. As is known, this is an important development generator, especially when it is based on some innovative idea. This brings profits usually only for a short period of time, then the company either fails or grows so much that it must either be taken over by a larger company or reshapes. This is also usually the case with the deduction of the capital share, which is expected to be taxed high in the new Member States. Another piece of legislation, counter-taxation stimulates this. Our legislation therefore prevents the efficient use of small innovative enterprises, often created by public or private risk capital as a generator of technological or general economic development, which does not seem to make sense. It is said that the Minister would be asked to tell why he taxes these so-called majority owners if he sells his shares after a three-year rejection. That is to say, if, I don't know, some owner of Mercator, who will be a very difficult majority, will sell his shares, of course, he won't be taxed because someone has more than 10% of such a large company. Of course, what's fast can be an individual, the owner of a small innovative company that will sell the company at a certain point, and it will have to pay the income. And I'd like to know if this is about protecting some of the "holy cows" or something else. With regard to the taxation of interest, I would also like to answer or raise a dilemma, since the interest of the Slovenian compensation companies on principals, which will only be allocated, is said to be those bonds of the Slovenian company, which will only be allocated to the denationalising beneficiaries in the future, will, of course, be taxed, even though the interest will also run for a period when the law has not yet been applied. I think this solution is incorrect. For if a denationalising beneficiary receives Slovenian compensation company bonds which cannot be recovered in nature and the interest on bonds flows - I believe - from 1996 onwards, this will also be taxed under the new law for the entire sum of interest, including for part of the interest before the law is enforced. I think this case is more than controversial. He would touch on another important area, namely, the areas of taxation of pensions to so-called victims of war violence, as well as exiles. The law of war says that these incomes are not taxed. I ask the Minister very clearly in the light of the provision of Article 21, paragraph 3, whether, therefore, the expulsions are exempt from taxation, whether, because of the fact that this is a permanent monthly income, each of the victims of war violence or also expulsion, this income will be taxed after the new income and, of course, the tax forecast and the rates of income will be paid or not. For it is true that there has been several discussions on this subject in this House, and it has been more than clear from this discussion that it is in the case of the rights that victims of war violence have received for a certain symbolic payment suffered during the time of violence against them, and that these matters are not taxed now. Here the minister, or as I see the government, changes his position and wants to tax these rents as well. We strongly oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and believe that this should not be regulated or taxed in the Income Act and in any other law. In short, I expect answers, of course, and I expect the Minister's answers to the dilemmas that have been raised. However, I am convinced that both laws, both the Law on the Income of Legal Persons or the Profit of Legal Persons and the Income Act, constitute a certain part of the important legislation which should be amended in the context of tax reform but gradually, per partes approach is not good. I am convinced that at the same time all laws should be on the table in order to take a very clear picture of the objectives and realignment of the burden of taxation among taxpayers. Regrettably, the proposed laws show only one binding vessel, among other approaches, based mainly on the abolition of tax reliefs in legal persons, on the other hand, for measures in the form of income, which, on the one hand, are burdensome and, of course, burdensome. According to my assessment, the approach should also be based on an analysis of taxation of other categories that are not taxed today, such as property and property, property and the like. Finally, we are expecting and do not have a law on concessions that would tax or certain natural resources that companies exploit and do not pay a tax toll, such as thermal water as a natural resource and so on. The aim of Slovenia, as a social state, which has enshrined this in the Constitution, should be to balance and properly allocate the tax burden, with a view to clearly determining who to whom and to whom it should be given in the context of such changes. Unfortunately, I see that this is only part of this story, that the objectives are blurred, that the effects will be known years after we adopt them, because the previous periods will blur the image strongly, and this is not the right way, of course, according to our assessment. In short, from the answers and explanations of the Minister and any amendments adopted, we will decide to continue supporting this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance or Government, colleagues and colleagues are warmly welcomed. Today we are considering the second law in the tax package that the National Assembly must adopt for comprehensive tax reform. The tax reform, which should have been adopted in the first year of the current government's mandate, has hit us in the last year, which is certainly not the easiest time to adopt such a difficult legislation. We firmly believe in the United List of Social Democrats that it is only possible to address the comprehensive tax package at the same time as a condition for prudent and professional and politically acceptable solutions, which we will obviously not succeed in this mandate. It would be good to consider the whole package of legislation, especially because it is necessary to determine the impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities in the coming years on the expected tax shortfalls and the amount of tax resources due to the new Income Act. It seems that it is not easy to argue that the real estate tax will only be a compensation for the current use of the building land, as the existing tax burdens on the use of buildings in individual municipalities are very different and will also be very difficult to achieve in the case of flexible rates at which municipal councils may decide to achieve similar tax burdens in individual municipalities as they are now. It is particularly difficult for us to introduce real estate tax also because of all the necessary procedures, the unification of property records with a regulated land book and their valuation, which should be regulated by the law on the mass valuation of property, which is now widely coordinated in local communities. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the tax package this year will only be acceptable under the assumption of the very reasonable functioning of this assembly, which is politically not wise or practical if it is not entirely impossible to expect in the electoral year, when Members and Members like to compete with proposals for various additional reliefs and foresights, although the tax burden is needed for individual groups of the population. It will therefore be absolutely necessary for the Ministry of Finance to reconsider the proposed solutions in the law after the initial responses to the proposed amendments to the tax legislation have been collected. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have followed the following objectives primarily in tax reform. First time. Resstruct tax burdens as this requires a substantially modified income structure of the population in recent years, with reduced possibilities for avoiding individual income tax and credit ratings, clearer taxation of income from assets, higher taxation of passive incomes, the application of the principle of taxation of residents after world income and non-residential income in Slovenia and so on. Another time. Deploy the income weaker strata of the population by raising general relief, which will burden the lowest income classes and should gradually reach the level of annual minimum wage. Third time. To increase the competitiveness of the economy by taxing labour and increasing tax incentives for investment in knowledge, research and development. Fourth time. To increase or at least maintain the fiscal potential of local communities by enforcing the possibility of higher original revenues, also linked to the activities of local communities to increase employment, to economic growth of business operators in their area, to eliminate the increase in the burden of infrastructure due to daily migration, to increase investment in technology and to restructure the economy, and so on, as it is not and cannot be normal when self-financing is limited to 29 municipalities, and to reduce income from income. Fifth. Introducing the transparency of tax policy and simplifying procedures while reducing the discretionary rights of the tax administration in the interpretation of legislation when dealing with different taxpayers. Sixthly, the integrity of the approach to tax policy. The whole package of laws is necessary so that the implications and objectives of laws for individual stakeholders and communities can be fully addressed. And as for the week, special treatment of creativity, such as the case in the Income Act, special personal relief for cultural comas with status of up to 3.9 million sitts and additional opportunities for relief from dedicated cultural donations. The Income Act is certainly one of those that attracts the greatest attention to the public and a number of public debates. In principle, the proposed solutions, such as: raising general relief, which will relieve the minimum income classes and gradually achieve the level of annual minimum wage agreed upon by the social partners from the signing of the Social Agreement for the period 2003 to 2005. The syntheticity of taxation and the capture of the principle of taxation of residents by world income and not residents by source of income in Slovenia will achieve an increased amount of tax liability for residents who will then be taxed from income to be achieved in Slovenia and abroad. Thus, the principle of taxation by resident and source of income, as introduced in all developed countries, will be fully enforced. It is also a necessity to change the income scale, which is more burdensome for taxpayers and solutions that will help to reduce the avoidance of individual income taxes and ratings that we are witnessing to them today. We also welcome the clearer taxation of income from assets that have so far not been adequately covered, of course, in a thorough debate on the level of the tax threshold. We also welcome the clearer definition of individual benefits, such as in the current law, the shift towards higher taxation of passive income, as well as the solutions required by the various decisions of the Constitutional Court in recent years, which we have not yet sanctioned or adequately regulated by amending the Income Act. In agreement with most of the proposed starting points, however, we pay particular attention to the following solutions that the applicant will have to examine further and harmonise. The resolution of the status quo in Article 19 is necessary in view of the current use of these charges in order to avoid tax burdens, we are not exactly convinced in the United List of Social Democrats that it corresponds to the tax burden on other incomes, although we have obtained much more information on the impact of these solutions compared to the current solutions. Many point out that this article should be deleted because it means limiting entrepreneurship freedom, which we do not agree with, but we should really define solutions so as not to hinder new forms of work that they also know in other developed countries. If abuse occurs today in practice, we have the appropriate authorities to control and act accordingly. In Article 21 of the chapter dealing with the exemption from payment of income, it should be added that income is not also paid from income received in the form of pensions by beneficiaries under the law of our law or of a foreign country as a result of war violence. In this Article it is also necessary to verify the appropriateness and reasonableness of the exemption in the event of the return of property and compensation in cases of denationalisation. It is also necessary to examine whether charitable organisations should be added to point 25 in addition to humanitarian organisations, since part of this supplement is also included in the third reading of the law on income from legal persons. I also propose that the law also includes charitable organisations that act in the public interest. Although law-makers argue that humanitarian organisations include charitable organisations, we cannot fully agree with this in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats if there are in practice differences between humanitarian organisations and also charities. We believe that more detail should also be given to Article 26, paragraph 9, which is income based on participation in profits, because we consider this provision to be ambiguous and inconclusive, which means that in practice it will be subject to a variety of interpretations and unnecessary tax procedures. They should determine which benefits represent benefits on the basis of participation in profits and indicate them appropriately or indicate that these benefits do not constitute dividends and dividends of similar benefits. In Article 36, our acquaintances also point to the fact that the proposed solution is likely to lead to double contracts and avoidance of tax control mainly in sport. It is necessary to examine or urgently need all the points referred to in the third paragraph of Article as experts point out that they could delete points 2 and 3 and that the terms in points 2 and 4 of the previous tax year should certainly be uniformised. The question is also whether the fourth point means that whoever once led the books can no longer move on to the standard income referred to in Article 46. In short, tax experts point out that the present third and fourth paragraphs should be converted into a more meaningful text, which would in particular allow for more favourable taxation of athletes. In Article 103, it seems to us that the amount of interest not included in the tax base is still too low, although the first figures were even 150 000 SITs. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are not entirely convinced that taxation of interest on this sum will have a particularly positive impact on the current level of savings we certainly need. In Article 104, in order to determine the average rate of income of one year, we find it problematic to allocate for a maximum of three years, since this would in fact only mean two years if it were multi-annual income back. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance still insists somehow on the proposed text, which suggests that the remuneration received by taxpayers from several years can be taxed at an average tax rate of the last three years, up to five to ten years. We believe that this restriction must be lifted. In practice, these cases will not be much, and therefore we believe that there will be no special impact on the revenue of the State budget, and this may be a big, big difference for the taxpayer. Initially, the proposed unitary allowances for children in Article 110 have come under great pressure and a number of indications that the State does not support additional allowances for large families. While such observations are true of many demagogies and of the actual distinction between children and their maintenance costs, if they live in a small or large family, we would expect more analyses of how many such debtors or people are actually involved. In his opening statement, the distinguished Minister of Finance mentioned that 93.1% of all debtors applying child benefit will improve the situation, meaning that they will pay less tax or income. That is why it seems to us that it would be very good, or even expect concrete proposals, to see how tomorrow's income losses in larger societies could be compensated for by some additional help for a large family with over three children, because it is only difficult to agree to some thesis that we will solve this in another legislation, which is usually not accepted for a long time if it is to the detriment of the budget. We also have such a thought with regard to Article 113, we consider the limitations of intent, although they have been quite widespread from the first drafts, as well as the change in the level of relief from 3% to 2%. They seem almost unnecessary to us and are also reckless in view of the fact that those commitments have become used to them and also contribute to the prevention of work on the lines and tax incentives of some socially beneficial uses. I have only highlighted some of the joint findings of our Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. My colleagues and colleagues will also be involved in the debate and will also try to assess some of the urgent changes that are also taking place on the ground, but in the end, on behalf of the Group of Members, let me just draw attention to the solution in the 148th Article, which has also emerged after our efforts to address the Income Act so far. The solution envisaged is not yet, according to our assessment, a satisfactory guarantee for the financing of local communities that are self-financed when income from income is significantly lost. Since the debaters, my colleagues, who have also jointly identified themselves to some common starting points, will demonstrate these concerns, but in the Group of Members, we have found that this joint presentation of our views on the Income Act gives sufficient elements or grounds to give proper support to the Income Act and that it is also suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! The Slovenian People's Party's Group has always stressed the importance of fair, appropriate but at the same time stimulating taxation of the income of natural persons. We are pleased that the proposal for an income law has been discussed so far, because we believe that this is a law that must be adopted with the widest possible consensus. Tax reform, especially in the field of income taxation, must be broad-based, well-thought-out and, above all, universally acceptable to both citizens and the country. In our view, poor legislative solutions in the field of taxation are very harmful in the long term, although they may have some positive effects for a short time. We are in the Slovenian People's Party Group and will always stand for solutions that will benefit both our citizens and the country in the long term. Our basic starting point before the preparation of the reform of the Income Law was based and is still based on assumptions that income must first be spent on social elements, which means that relief must be raised for an existing minimum at least to the level of income that determines a person's decent life and survival. Special treatments must also be given to families as they transfer the basic cell of society. Furthermore, it is necessary to enable the taxpayers to make more explicit use of the evidence-based actual costs they have by generating income. Therefore, we must avoid administrative determination of the tax base and thus allow the taxpayers to be taxed for that part of the income left to them after deducting the costs they had by generating income. We are still assessing that the income scale is too low, which means that we need to raise the thresholds for the income scale mainly for the first income class, at a comparable level with other comparable European countries. Otherwise, life in Slovenia because of excessive tax policy will not be attractive, and the debtors, who will be given a better opportunity to live elsewhere in Europe, will simply leave, and Slovenia will thus lose important potentials and personnel. We estimate that this would not be appropriate, for everyone is important for the common good. Our further efforts are towards taxing capital gains and income from property and recognising pension benefits. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is necessary to make it more important for those who are committed to allow themselves and their family to take care of their security and financial autonomy. This also relieves the state budget and, last but not least, the pension bills. In this way, the debtors will have the opportunity to choose their own way of saving and thereby increase their financial autonomy, which ultimately leads to financial independence and freedom. In this way, the debtors assume part of their responsibility for their future, which is long-term good for them as well as for the country. Therefore, they should be recognised for greater pension benefits in terms of recognition of benefits paid in pension plans, and more than ever before, in order to promote their own saving of the debtors, which is the best way for each of the debtors to live their own lives. Finally, we believe that the income system must be consistent, theoretically intact and capable of optimal implementation in practice, both material and procedural. From this basic point of view, we have also assessed the proposal for an income law that is ahead of us today. As a government party, we have worked very hard to prepare this law together with the expert group for several months. In our view, the proposal for a law is a good basis for further consideration, since it contains the starting points, at least specified, which we have always advocated. This relieves the economically weakest members of our society. The proposal for an income law substantially increases the so-called general tax relief and is thus more socially equitable. This is also confirmed by the prepared simulations that we have made ourselves or obtained from the finance department. Thus, it is realistic to expect that those debtors who receive only active income will be slightly less taxed than the current income system. The next chapter, which has already generated a great deal of attention, is the incorporation of the Constitutional Court’s decision on allowances for dependent family members. So let's make it easier for these people to raise according to the current system. We estimate that such a solution is consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision but is not fully aligned with our starting points. The system of relief for families with multiple children is, in particular, destimulative. The simulations show that the proposed system is only good for families with up to four children and that the proposed system is worse for families with more than four children than for the current system. We cannot agree with this situation, nor can we accept any hints or interpretations that any further child costs less than his predecessor. We must be aware that a large family has far greater needs than a small family. Such a higher number of children mean for parents to solve the housing problem, the problem of financing these children's education, the problem of ensuring a decent life. However, a decent life has become a concept that is more than necessarily related to food and clothing alone, but it is necessary to ensure that every child’s development is comprehensive and that every child is provided with education. We believe that parents cannot provide this on their own and that the country must also help them. The State can also help to enable them to apply a slightly higher tax relief for each further child in the framework of income. We are aware that this is not the only possible measure the State can take, but in our view, that is the signal to families that will show that the country is also concerned about the largest families. At the final stage, we should all be happy with large families, and it is also right to support them with tax policy measures. In this context, we should stress in particular that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have always advocated the introduction of family income as an option form, i.e. as optional forms, so that the taxpayer would therefore be a family and not every individual in this family. We are convinced that in this way we would rightly stress the view that family is the basic foundation of each society. We further assess that certain corrections are also necessary in the context of income from assets and capital gains. A significant novelty in our legislation is introduced by the proposal of the Income Act when it foresees taxation of interest. We are aware that such proposals stem from the requirements of the Directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest paid. However, we believe that the proposal is still not entirely optimal. We estimate that a certain part of the interest, which represents the equivalent of inflation, cannot possibly be part of the tax base. We believe that this part of the interest would be better exempted from the tax base, thus reaching the tax base that actually represents the income or economic increase of the taxpayer. Our second serious concern is, however, within the framework of the capital gains, the deadlines under which capital gains are determined. Some fellow Members have already talked about this topic today. Thus, according to the proposal for a law, the time limit for determining capital gains in securities remains for three years, with the so-called predominant equity shares being re-emerged without an absolute deadline for determining capital gains. However, the time limit for determining capital gains in real estate is extended from three to ten years, excluding residential real estate. Such a proposal is contrary to our efforts, as well as to the expectations of citizens, including with past attempts to reach agreement and not least with international practice. According to our basic points of view, we will continue to advocate in the Slovenian People's Party that the deadline for determining capital gains in securities should be reduced accordingly or that the deadline for determining capital gains in real estate should not be extended. As already mentioned, one of the important objectives is the tax theoretical consistency and correctness of such legislation. After careful consideration of the proposal, we have found that the proposal for an income law is not entirely consistent and correct, especially in the work, where it also includes categories which do not have the nature of income in the tax base. In doing so, we are primarily referring to payments under agricultural policy measures, grants, grants, cash aid due to natural or other disasters which do not have the nature of income compensation. We fully agree that such categories fall within the tax base if they have a nature of income compensation. We cannot agree, however, that the tax base of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities includes categories which do not have the nature of income. The inclusion of such categories in the tax base seriously violates the principle of neutrality in taxation, since in the case of other categories of income we do not have similar provisions. Given that the income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities represents a potential market income from land production, we believe that it would be only right to find a new way of calculating this potential market income, cadastral income and to take due account of the categories which are unluckily recorded in the proposal for an income law. This issue will also be discussed in more detail by my fellow Members later in the debate. Furthermore, from a tax theoretical point of view, it was also difficult to establish the inclusion of children's income into the tax base of their parents and the rules on income belonging. In both cases, we estimate that this is an unacceptable infringement of tax law into other legal relations. The general rule cannot include income from children's property in the tax base of parents, as the proposal for an income law is based in contradiction with some of our principled positions on an individual tax basis and an individual taxpayer. In our view, it is also not possible to accept the rules on income belonging in a way that, under certain assumptions, the general rule, is taxed as income from employment, although this is not the case with its content. We agree, however, that the abuse of the law by the taxpayers is possible on these two segments and that such abuse must and should be reasonably prevented and also sanctioned, but not in the way envisaged in the proposal for a law on income. On the basis of this, especially on the basis of the fact that, together with the expert group, as a government party, we have participated in the preparation of this law with the experts from the finance department, we consider that the proposal for an income law is a suitable basis for further consideration and that we will therefore support the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group at this stage. The proposal for an income law is more than necessary, both from the viewpoint of domestic tax policy, tax practice and from the point of view of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The bill also addresses some of the key issues of the current income system and adapts to the requirements of European Union legislation in this area and enables Slovenia to have a broader, fairer and neutral tax base than the current income system, which, by the way, was not a bad system, as it lasted for a relatively similar period of more than ten years. At the same time, we predict that in the coming days, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will focus all our strengths on addressing the shortcomings that we see in the proposal so far with a view to a more optimal and long-term and broad-based system of taxation of the income of natural persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Pucko will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! There are several reasons why we are finally discussing the amendment of the Income Act after several years. Since the entry into force of the current law, which is from 1991 to today, experience has shown that for the first time there is a relatively high overall burden on the income of natural persons, in particular the income from work. Secondly, the situation on the way in which natural persons' incomes have been generated has changed. Thirdly, that a number of laws governing the income and status of natural persons have changed, which indirectly affects the tax system itself. Fourth time. It is necessary to adapt the system of income to internationally comparable standards and regulations of the European Union. Fifth. In a sense, it is a certain unequal distribution of tax burdens. As a result of all this, we believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that the following objectives must be pursued with the amendment of the law: global burden should be placed on the debtors, especially those in the lower income classes that will be fully burdened, up to the level of minimum income, as defined by the Social Protection Act. To tax the income from work and thus to try to increase our competitiveness in the economy. It is also necessary to pursue the objective of a more equitable and transparent treatment of incomes and the allocation of tax burdens between taxpayers and to extend the tax base. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we assess that the proposed solutions are appropriate, bearing in mind that, in the second reading, the individual provisions of the current proposal of the law need to be supplemented and amended, essentially or regulated by the following essential areas: First time. They maintain the synthetic or global taxation of all incomes of natural persons with one tax. Another time. The taxation unit remains an individual. Third time. The law consistently enforces the principle of taxation of residents by world income and non-residents by source of income in Slovenia. In order to avoid double taxation, a specific mechanism in the form of recognition of a tax deduction paid abroad is also incorporated into the law. It follows from the above that the application of bilateral conventions on the avoidance of double taxation of income will also be essential to a greater extent. Fourth time. An extension of the tax base is proposed in such a way as to cover, in principle, all taxes on natural persons. Fifth. Individual income definitions for the purposes of the law are also appropriate in order to avoid different interpretations. Thus, the type of income and the manner in which it is taxed will also provide for consideration of the status of natural person or the relationship on which it will generate income and income, namely, active or passive income and not only the legal basis on which the income will be paid and the income title itself. Six. It is good in the novel that more stringent additional rules are laid down that have prevented tax evasion from taking place It's a week. In view of the government programme of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia on the reduction of inflation and entry into ERM2 we welcome the establishment of a fixed income scale so that the taxpayers can determine their tax liability for the current year. Eight. The new law reduces the number of tax classes from six to five, reducing the minimum rate from the current 17% to 16%. Nine. It is particularly important that the increased general relief provided at the level of the minimum cost of living set out in the Social Protection Act is of particular importance. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed amendment to the Income Act is a suitable basis for a second treatment mainly because the tax burden of natural persons will be reduced by about a tenth or 35 billion tolar, which in the current budgetary situation is a major contribution to improving the financial or status of the lowest or worst-situated inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the tax burden of natural persons in the Republic of Slovenia will on average be reduced, most importantly, to taxpayers in the lowest income classes. This will reduce the taxpayers' tax burden by up to 50% of the average wage in 2002 by about two fifths and 41% respectively. For taxpayers between 50% and 100% of the average wage, about 45% in 2002, their tax burden will be reduced by a poor fifth and 19% respectively. The average burden will be reduced by a good 9% in 2002 to 100 to 150% of the average wage that was around 16%, according to the latest figures. For taxpayers also between 150% and 200% of the average wage, which was 5% in 2002, the tax burden will on average decrease by 5%, while the average tax burden on the taxpayers above two average wages will be reduced by around 3.2%. It is important to stress that an effective tax rate will also be reduced from 11.6% to 10.5%. It follows from everything that the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will put forward a proposal with certain amendments and additions, which I spoke about during the presentation of our opinion, in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Respectable present. At the time of the introduction to tax policy reform or to the Income Act, the initiator stressed that there were four grounds for writing this law. First, the relatively high burden or tax burden on natural persons. Secondly, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, comparability with the legal order of the European Union and fourthly, as pleasant as possible in the ear, redistribution of burdens. On the basis of these four grounds for marriage, two main objectives are to be pursued: firstly, more even burden and secondly, the burden on natural persons in particular. All of this is indeed stated in the explanation of the law. According to our assessment, however, the consequences are too vaguely written and, according to our assessment, the possible adoption of this law into our regime will bring into our way of life those consequences that will be reflected primarily in negative form. Allow me to try as systematically as possible in the moments at my disposal to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group on such a fiscal issue. Firstly, the area of relief, which can be found in all newspapers and through which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims to introduce that constitutional principle on social and legal society. The government claims that child support benefits will increase. Many of you have discussed such a dictatorship, and most of you have disagreed. According to our assessment, in this case it is only to facilitate those with fewer children, i.e. one or even for families without children, for all other families in our country, such a relief, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls it, will have a major negative impact. And if we put extra pressure on families with two, three or more children through smaller tax breaks, of course, any further discussion of how we encourage new families in Slovenia, how we are a friendly society to create quality conditions for the country or for the family will be disputed. According to our assessment, the bill in the field of relief - and if I'm only on the maintenance child segment - achieves even a new standard, a standard that is supposed to be a social standard, but in fact is not and should be based on the assumption: higher than the taxpayer's income, it will gain more, on the other hand, than the commitment of the child will lose more. Therefore, on the basis of this part of the facilitations, we cannot at any rate talk about respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that we have not been able to speak of respect for our highest legal act in recent times. So the talk about the legal and social state, I think, with this kind of government plan, tax policy is out, as well as any kind of talk and advocacy to encourage young families. But I would like to touch mainly the taxes below. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia argues that if the bill were adopted, of course, the tax burden on work would be reduced and that the threshold of untaxed income would be raised, which would, of course, logically, if accompanied by the text of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore, if they were to monitor the content of the government's conviction, which, in my opinion, is wrong, would have led to a simple calculation that measures under this law would have led to the loss of tax revenues. However, we all know that if tax revenues fall out and government spending remains unchanged, there is a greater deficit. And the question of this relationship or how we will replace this reduction, in my opinion, knowing that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were composed primarily by the National Party, the answer would be very simple: thus replacing it with less public consumption, especially with the part of public spending that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a direct impact. Only in the last period, a year or two have we had quite a few spending of our government, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which had nothing to do with the social state, but with common sense. And I'll mention, I'll just count some: a plane, police boats, hangers, awards of different worlds, pay levels for leaders in public companies, government property, government rolling stock, protocol facilities; in short, I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been acting not only as if it is not in our country, but that there are exclusively people living in our country who are satisfied with the current situation and who are willing to pay taxes and who are proud that almost every minister has their own marble palace. But of course, this way, that is to say, the way the country reduces its public consumption or to replace it with less public consumption, is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it is necessary and reasonable to ask ourselves where we will replace that deficit or the loss of income. And the government is also proposing in this tax reform scheme the simplest measure and measure, which is already a standing position in the government of the Liberal Democracy; that is, with new taxes or with a system that will show up in two areas. Firstly, the extension of the tax base, i.e. the taxation of previously untaxed or less taxed income, which, according to our assessment, is horrendous. And secondly, we're introducing new types of taxes. As can be seen from the content of the law itself and, above all, from the acts accompanying the law, it is reasonable to stress the new taxation of subsidies and in this area we can speak concretely: subsidies in agriculture, which means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will provide a modest share of the subsidies to this sector and later this amount will be reimbursed through tax. On the other hand, and in the sky, at least in the eyes of the Slovenian National Party, the idea of taxation of interest and savings and in the first form, i.e. from bank deposits, while we know that now in the current state, that is, when this matter has not yet been introduced, bank interest barely achieves inflation. And then what will be the ratio if the interest burdens new taxes or new demands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Next. Taxation on financial flows, in particular in relation to debt securities. Furthermore, all other financial claims and then we come to a new set, this is a set of higher tax burdens or burdens for any form of capital uptake and, of course, a new area, higher tax liabilities under the lease ratio. Of course, the rental relationship or the burden of the lease relationship will be reflected on both sides of the involved partners: those who rent a particular form and those who rent the form. Those who rent will be subject to new taxes, but of course they will burden the new renter price. We will come to a very simple conclusion that the full burden of this part of the tax burden on the rent ratio will be borne by tenants who are not prepared or excused who are unable to get to ownership. And if, of course, this is the tendency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I just have to do it again today, no matter how everyone says that we are criticizing the government alone, I also have to criticise it. However, according to our assessment, it is also reasonable to touch on a very important fact, which some of you have already dealt with and repeated several times in today's debate, which is the ratio of the tax burden of work to the tax burden of capital. It is true that the tax burden of working in Slovenia, in our dear country, is the largest, among the largest in Europe and that the tax burden of capital is among the lowest in Europe. But from this point of view, I would like to point out that, at least in the context of the National Party's parliamentary group, it does not seem to us that we have little tax capital. The main issue is that we have high taxes on our jobs. Therefore, this relationship should go solely in that part so that the tax burden of work would become burdensome and to leave the tax burden of capital as it is at this point, because the fact is that by entering the European Union, our tax will be at least such a capital charge or I am apologizing for the tax burden of capital in all likelihood a rather interesting country. However, the government claims that it has also addressed this area by means of a proposal for a law. According to our assessment, of course, that's true. This is another claim by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which is misleading under this law. However, it would be harmful, as I said earlier, to touch the tax burdens on capital in the sense that we now have to increase capital taxes. According to our assessment, exactly in relation to the labour and capital tax burden ratio, the tax reform, which today appears in one half, one third of the accompanying legislation, should be reflected or more radically addressed in the areas of securities where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and to this government, at least in the SNS Group of Members, has already warned and proposed in the past to regulate the so-called selective approach, which would, on the one hand, introduce into the framework of our tax system a so-called transitional tax following the example of some other countries in transition or a wish to tax capital gains and transfers of such securities, i.e. those which were created in terms of conditions and reasons for unjustified enrichment at the 90% tax rate. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has promoted the transitional wealth of individuals, i.e. those individuals who are capital and politically close to Liberal Democracy, and now those, some of whom we call strawed men, other men alone, are making a more or less role, namely those companies that were once in the social hands, but for all, it is typical that their only ability was to be in the right moment in the right political option and that, at the expense of their wealth, a large majority of people fell out of the system promised by the State on privatisation. On the other hand, if we were to agree to such a selective approach and introduce a so-called transitional tax with which all those who have unjustifiably benefited from the privatisation of state capital should therefore, in our opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, approach to a different tax policy primarily for other holders of securities. In the National Party here, we do not share an opinion with some opposition Members who have given their views in their previous reading. According to our assessment, for small holders of securities, for other holders of securities, I would stress once again that we should exclude those transitional rich people who were created by tactics and the approval of the Liberal Democracy, the tax on the capital gains of Slovenian natural persons should be abolished. According to our assessment, this type of approach to the Income Act or the amendment of the Law would achieve those three synergies that would be reflected not only in the capital market, but mainly in the labour market and in the competitive capacity of our country. So the positive effects of such an idea of the Slovenian National Party, which we also submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was immune, so it did not respond to this idea, but I sincerely hope that they will be forced to respond to it today - would achieve the development of the capital market. And given that the capital market is one of those sectors that has the highest added value to employees, it can be exclusive and only positive. Furthermore, by abolishing the capital gains tax of Slovenian natural persons who would have been terminated for small holders of securities and those who did not participate in wild privatisation, the saving of Slovenian investors would have been enhanced. Because if we follow and link the National Party's aspirations to the proposal, as introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the taxation of interest, of course this would mean that at least in this way we would try to pursue the goal of maintaining Slovenian companies owned by Slovenian citizens. Because the fact is that such a change of law would strengthen Slovenian investors. However, the third, very important issue that would have been realized by the implementation of the Slovenian National Party's ideas would have been the existence of capital accumulation, which would have been created in Slovenia. I wouldn't run to so-called "offshore" or black funds. According to our assessment, with a friendly tax policy, i.e. the abolition of the capital gains of Slovenian natural persons, this accumulation, which is created, which is something in the country, has reinvested in this country. At the very least, I personally assess that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should use fiscal policy instruments primarily to satisfy the interests of our citizens, citizens to establish or encourage this kind of life to our society, which will allow quality to continue or at least continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. And the position of the Young Slovenia Party, presented by Master Marko Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! The new Income Act, in fact the amendment of the entire tax legislation, was one of the most important pre-election promises of the current government. We therefore expected that the government would take the new tax laws seriously immediately after the adoption of the mandate and put them in place in the legislative process over the past years, when the adoption of the law could be properly carried out with possible public debates and inclusion in the public, which, at heart, are also the most affected by the adoption of this law. Oh, no! The law came to the National Assembly in March, just a few months before the elections, when the ruling coalition would certainly not allow such a long and bile debate. In fact, this law needs to be demonstrated in this way by the budgets already adopted for 2004 and 2005, which are based on calculations under the new tax laws. Thus we can expect a call from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the coming week to address amendments and at the April session a second reading of the law, while the procedure for other, much less important laws has been taking place for years. The Income Act, as it is prepared, represents a complete and comprehensive amendment to the current system of taxation of the income of natural persons. In preparing the new law, the decisions of the Constitutional Court should also be taken into account to a certain extent. With regard to individual provisions, the current Income Act, which the Constitutional Court has found to be unconstitutional, for example with regard to relief for dependent family members, children. The draft law introduces a completely amended subjective as well as an objective aspect of income. There is also a completely changed system of relief and, of course, tax tariffs. The adoption of this law is intended to bring individuals' income tax issues closer to comparable international standards in Slovenia. Among the reasons for the adoption of the law, the government has also written that the new law introduces greater fairness in the tax burden between the debtors and the burden of active income - income from work - and greater burden of passive income - income from capital. However, a more precise review of the law shows that there is little change in this regard in the bill. While the state will tax interest on savings deposits, capital gains in the sale of shares, if you own them for more than three years, will still be taxed. Thus, shareholders will be able to earn millions and millions by selling them, and the state budget will not be richer than that. Thus, those who are rich enough to invest their resources in stocks will be even richer, and those who are barely saving a tolar in the bank will be further taxed. So much for the Government's logic of managing social differences and greater justice. Because I know that a lot about this topic has already been told by the predecessors, I will focus mainly on the provisions that directly concern young people. At the beginning of the law, we are faced with a very large change, which concerns defined cycles of taxpayers and defined levels of taxation. The law is based on the principle of taxation of world income, which means that all the revenues of a natural person will be earned both at home and abroad. The main binding circumstances for determining taxpayers were predominant. In this way, taxpayers will be divided into residents, especially residents in the Republic of Slovenia and taxpayers for income, and non-residents, non-receivables, only obliged to pay income taxes originating from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. From the point of view of the status of students, students and students, it appears to mention the following change, which concerns this category of individuals, these are students. As non-residents, they are not obliged to issue an income statement and are therefore not entitled to the benefit of the students provided for in Article 108 of the proposed law. Thus, their remuneration will be subject to a definitive profit tax, which will be an income benefit for others. The current regime is therefore less discriminatory, since, as a definition of a taxable person, he takes a permanent residence and does not exclude individual categories of persons such as foreign students. We also believe that the drafter should specify in more detail Article 21 of the bill. It states that scholarships of students and students for so-called full school or study time are not taxed, but it is not clear what the applicant meant by the words "full school or study time". According to the new report, staff scholarships will also be included in the categories of revenue that are taxed, which, of course, was expected due to a number of abuses. The taxation of staff scholarships is devoted to a relatively high level of attention, the entire 100th article of the proposed law. While human resources scholarships will not be taxed to the full, they will be followed by some approximation to the Republic's scholarships, as far as they are concerned, and in this way the state will try to prevent the current abuses of this instrument. Staff scholarships will be so taxable at a certain amount, the limit is the minimum wage laid down by law. How rational that is, we'll see. We would also mention the provision of Article 108 of the proposed law, which redefines the student relief that is known today. Today’s system is that the student is granted a special benefit for the benefits received through student services, amounting to 40% of the average annual salary. In addition, the student, like all other debtors, also has a general benefit of 11%, totalling 51% of the average annual salary. However, the proposed new arrangement differs significantly from the present one. It will be recognised to the resident who is educated and has the status of a student, student or student and his income in the year for which income is taxed will not exceed a million 600 tolars and will be less than 26 years old. The amount of relief is estimated at 668 thousand tolars per year. Changes to the existing system are obvious. The limits to which reliefs will be recognised are placed on that amount of income, and it does not matter where the income was paid or paid, there is no longer a restriction on student services. If the revenues exceed that amount, let us make it easier for the sky to recognise what is unacceptable in our view. The age limit is set, in addition to the student status to which it will be recognised, which is clearly contrary to efforts to educate all ages. The height is easier if we try to convert it to today's values, reduced to about half. But it is also a completely different system of relief both general and special. In general, we can say that the system is set up theoretically better than the current system. Thus, it can be found that the amount of relief is increasing, such as general tax relief, which almost doubled compared to last year’s, as well as relief for maintenance members. An equal amount of relief is proposed for all children, regardless of their number, and is now increased compared to the existing relief for the first child. Amendments to the Child Benefit Income Act should have been adopted as early as 1997, when the Constitutional Court ruled, up to 10% of the aid does not allow the child's minimum of living. In 1997, the government presented a calculation of the minimum cost of living for a child of 17%. Last year we received a proposal to amend the Income Act, which would make it easier for the first child from 10% to 14.1%. This should make it easier for all other children. The law was rejected because the one we have ahead of us is already preparing. Here is proposed a smaller increase in relief, only by 3.8%. Therefore, these percentages are smaller year after year and the government has not taken into account the calculations it has proposed. Instead, the law used a calculation made by the Institute of Economic Research to determine the amount of social assistance in 1998. So we're going to take into account in the marriage a calculation that's over five years old. In the media, we have thus monitored the attempt of NGOs to prove to government representatives that such a small increase in allowances does not cover actual costs for the child. I'm sure representatives of the government also have a child. Let me explain to you how they cover the cost of a child with 32,400 tolars when only the costs of kindergarten are more substantial. And another question is being asked here. The country devotes about 57,000 to foster parents to cover the costs of their children. So he admits that the cost of maintaining the child is higher. Whether children living with their parents cost less or are not worth the same living conditions as their children. Members of the Young Slovenia Party have repeatedly pointed out the country's stepmother's attitude towards the problem of underbirth and family policy management. Slovenia still does not have a national programme on family policy, although it should have been adopted some time ago. Thus, it is not clear what strategy is being pursued by the State for the protection of families and children. Many times we were able to hear representatives of the government, and not least the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, answered the question of fertility on the emissary that the state is making huge amounts for child allowances, allowances for large families, child nutrition subsidies and other social media. However, it is not only the country's subsidies to the most socially disadvantaged families that are important for greater fertility. It is important that the whole country's strategies allow young people to create conditions for themselves, when they are able to take care of themselves and their families with their revenues. Thus, we have heard that the government does not support the formulation of family policy by means of tax and other reliefs, but through social transfers and subsidies. In the event that both parents are employed and receive relatively large incomes, thus they are not entitled to a child allowance or any subsidy, they pay almost the full price in kindergarten and are often in a poorer position than families with a slightly poor financial income. In addition, we need to take care of the pension security of young people and start saving for a safe age, solve the housing problem, which is the biggest financial burden on young people. [[...]] The country should not solve the problems of young families by increasing subsidies, but rather by burdening young people at the beginning of their working life and by allowing them to move to a life of their own as soon as possible and as easily as possible. Differences to the detriment of taxpayers compared to the existing system are seen in special, today 3% of the benefits that will be only 2% new. The range of tax reliefs is inappropriately narrower. The government, in the face of the usual green tax reform, proposes to delete a provision that has so far allowed the application of incentives to buy products that reduce drinking water consumption, electricity and other factors that contribute to a cleaner and more friendly environment. We strongly oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party. Special reliefs will continue to include funds aimed at solving the housing problem. In particular, I think that we should explicitly write down that it means solving the housing problem also by renting apartments and that, as a relief, the amount of paid rent would also be recognised. In addition, the cost of maintenance of dwellings and houses, I am referring to investment costs, not to running maintenance costs, could also be recognised as costs. As a relief, the rent is now recognised as a maintenance cost of 40% of the paid annual rent if it is a profitable rent or 8% if it is a non-profit rent. Sadly, many, especially young families, who for the first time solve a housing problem, cannot afford to buy or build their homes, so they are forced to rent apartments. The problem of renting an apartment is also the failure of the state to operate on the real estate market, as the vast majority of apartments are turned over in black, without contracts. In addition to the fact that the State loses millions of sums that could be collected by taxes on pensions, renters cannot, without contracts, enforce the rent as an income relief, which puts them in a subordinate position. We also propose an explicit statement that interest on dedicated loans used for purchases or construction and which you are returning for a longer period of time is recognised as a relief as long as this return takes place. In the current law, the annual annuity of the loan is deducted from the income base only in the calendar year in which the buyer pays the rent for the apartment. While this would place those who purchase apartments using credits in a privileged position, it would be contrary to those who pay the apartment without credit, since their income base would be reduced by interest on all the years of repayment of the loan and not just on the first year. We believe that buying an apartment is such an investment that only a small part of the population in Slovenia can do without bank loans. In addition, a large number of people are saving in the national austerity scheme and it is expected that, at the end of the first five-year saving year, there will be huge demand for housing and credit. Although the government has collected a reduced tax rate for housing construction in the negotiations for Slovenia's accession to the European Union until the end of 2007, the national austerity scheme will not be completed until the end of 2007. After this date, higher housing prices are also expected as a result of the increase in the tax. The majority of the savers who opted for this saving are saving for a period of five years, but the savings will certainly not be enough to buy the apartment. Therefore, the majority of depositors accounted for favourable loans from banks, which will be repaid for at least another ten years. It would therefore be appropriate to consider the interest on such loans as a benefit to the income. As a comparison, we can take Germany, which has contributed some money since 1996 to taxpayers who build or buy an apartment they will use for themselves. The basic cash assistance shall be provided for the year in which the taxable person actually moves, and further to that amount of the following seven calendar years from the purchase or construction of the apartment. Let me mention once again the 4th and 5th paragraphs of Article 113 of the bill in conjunction with the second paragraph, which refers to a 2% reduction in the annual tax base, which is still 1% less than it has been before. These two points refer to the purchase or construction of housing or housing for the purpose of solving the debtor’s housing problem and the amounts paid for the maintenance of an apartment or apartment. In my opinion, this is completely confused with every logic that is happening in real life. Let's take a case where the hostage builds a house or rebuilds an apartment, and I stress that I will try to simplify it as much as possible. If there is no fabulous revenue, this 2% benefit in a moment, for example, to replace two windows. Then he gets the contractor for another job and because the investor is absolutely unstimulated by the ridiculous income reliefs, he is, of course, in his interest, unable to issue an account. You'll say that's not possible, it's not in accordance with the law, but it's happening in real life, but it's losing the country. The debtor loses in possible complaints and in the quality of the service - where does the state lose? First, at value added tax because there is no account [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] displayed. [[...]] Secondly, in the case of public income, in particular in the pension, health allowance, because the workers in the operators are often paid on minimum possible salaries and employers pay the allowance in different ways. It's usually a "solar" way. Thirdly, a tax on the income of legal persons. Fourthly, not to mention that this is also the promotion of the grey economy and black work, which according to certain data today is expected to set even 18% of the gross social product. In short, I propose once again to the Ministry of Finance a detailed examination of the whole law, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In particular this Article, in the direction of increasing the facilitation and stimulation of all taxpayers towards rational behaviour that will benefit all. [[...]] I mentioned the nonlifeliness of buying an apartment. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will not support and expect the Government to examine our proposals and include them in the law when preparing the law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the Group of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Some replacements were announced by colleagues and colleagues. First, I invite you to the word of Dr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I am surprised that such a complicated law and such an important law are passed in such a swift manner, because if we look at other countries that have a little more experience in this matter, we see that months and months and even a few years to come to a smart tax law. In a few hours, we have to solve this thing because it is only now that the government has put forward this proposal, and we think that this is wrong. The explanation given by the proposal is very poor, as it repeats the text of the articles mainly, leaving us to consider or to determine which points are the ones on which we should work much more and also to assess the financial consequences. My colleague, Dr. Andrey Bajuk, has already described our problems in a very classical way with this bill, so I will not stress it or speak again, but I would like to touch on a few points. First time. Relief for a dependent child in Article 108. The new tax regime reduces the relief for the part of our society that we all count on to sustain us as a nation in the future in the race with other nations in the European Union. I wonder what a dangerous illusion the Slovenian government is living in. They know themselves and us where we sit or where we are doomed to live as a nation. If possible, I would say: let's stop the Slovenian world, fix it first and then move on. But it doesn't seem to be possible for a while. I also ask the Government when I talk about child-relief if it is aware of the resolution on the basis of the family policy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted in 1993. I think it would be very useful for all the offices of the Slovenian government to have this and even think a little bit about this. The second thing I'd like to mention is capital profit taxation. In the case of taxation of profits from sales or withdrawals of shares or shares, or should have remained, if the current regime remained, the withdrawal would have been taxed if it occurred three years ago at a 30% rate and not taxed if it occurred after that period. Taxed in the event of capital withdrawal, irrespective of the general arrangement, are the so-called main owners, all of which would have had a shareholding, voting rights or shares in a company or a company in the past five years prior to the removal of at least 10% of the equity shareholding in the form of shares, voting rights or shares, directly or through connected persons. And what does this 10% share in capital mean? The relative rate of profit taxation of 10%, without taking into account the nominal amount of this capital, would mean that: for the first time, in a small or medium-sized company, the owner who will sell his co-ownership share, for example, 100 million tolars, which will be 10%, will pay the tax of 30% of the capital profit. For example, if the profit is $20 million, he will pay 6 million tax. In a large company, for example, where the shareholder has one percentage, nominally in a thousand million tolars, the owner of this share, for example, will not pay any capital gains in fact. So, I'm comparing this to, say, the concrete example of some Mercator owner who would like to sell one percentage that was acquired three years ago - he wouldn't pay anything or any tax. The same would happen to him if we sold shares under the proposed new regime, since the value of the one-per-per-cent ownership of Mercator's shares was almost two hundred million dollars, a little more. Therefore, Mercator’s main owner would pay 30% of the capital profit under the new arrangement only when he sold for 12 billion shares, because only after that would he meet 10% of the relative share. Is that right? This extremely unusual, just-explained taxation of the capital profit of the majority of the shareholding would apply under Articles 2 and 3 of Article 143 only to those holders of capital capital which became capital after 1 January 2002 and will sell capital after the entry into force of this Act, that is, on 1 January 2005, when the five-year period is only beginning. The proposed capital tax solutions are even more unusual with these transitional provisions and let anyone else say that they are not written for the known holders of the bulk interests and perhaps we can only hope that this is done with the aim of protecting the so-called national interests. However, it is distasteful to tell citizens by such regulation that under this law they will also be taxed in the removal of capital by Slovenian transitional capitalists, who in many ways, in illegal or double terms, by damaging small shareholders over the past ten years have obtained huge capital gains and assets. Therefore, our question is to the government and its finance minister, what difference will it make if the capital is sold and transferred abroad, for example, by a foreign big or heavy owner - a Frenchman, a German or anyone - or if the sale and transfer of capital abroad wishes to transfer a domestic transit capitalist. According to the Slovenian Coalition, the proposed way of taxing capital gains is not appropriate, it is written in the interest of narrow groups of people and individuals. In our view, our country must join the world's dominant taxation regime in the taxation of capital taxes, either those who tax capital gains in the so-called short and long term in a different or equal manner. A few words would also be worth saying about the taxation of interest, but I will end this and add that, in our view, much more work will be needed on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. First of all, I would like to say that reforms or measures such as these usually do not begin at the end of mandates, when the effects of these reforms are no longer verifiable within the mandate, but all the consequences and also all the effects are practically transferred to the new mandate or to the new government, and finally the date of implementation of the law, which is 1.5.2005, will be the following year. And in cases where there is a change of government, all of this burdens the new government, in cases or if the same government remains the same, the same government, made up of the same or similar partners, is said to the previous government. The law provides for a very different distribution of tax classes, and it must be said that the benefits of tax reform or significant burdens are mainly borne by the lowest income class, but it is also necessary to say that this minimum income class is also significantly lower than it has been so far, so that these effects of this reform are significantly reduced. For most other taxpayers, it is likely that nothing will change significantly, and I think it would be right for the government to submit a class-by-class comparison, which would also show the new tax situation of the taxpayers. Another thing that is extremely problematic or controversial in this marriage is for children. The fact is that these tax exemptions are not positive, that they do not stimulate the birth or birth of children, and that this tax reform should be one, not the only, but one, of the foundations of a negative demographic trend that has lasted for many years in Slovenia. This can only be achieved if the benefits for children are also stimulating. It is unacceptable that we have, instead of having a progressive relief scale, essentially blocked and thus punished families with multiple children. And since most such families are in rural areas, this law is particularly harsh in the rural situation and has direct effects mainly in rural areas. As I said earlier, because this law does not solve one of the criteria or gives one of the criteria or gives an opportunity to promote demographic development, promote population growth, increase the population, this law also in some way interferes with the perspective of this country; because children are the future, children are the ones who are supposed to solve future problems, and if these children are less than normal for the reproduction of this country, then it is perfectly clear that we have systematically added and created new problems. Now, if Slovenia wants to maintain at least approximately the number, number and negative population trends, then it will be forced to replace the missing part of the population, probably areas traditionally linked to Slovenia from less developed areas. This will reduce the proportion of the indigenous Slovenian population, and I only hope that the things that have been dragging on these legislative benches for some time now, these are the problems that have been erased, are not one of the stones in the mosaic that we are dealing with solving a negative demographic trend. In particular, it seems to me that this government is not prepared to do anything useful, is not prepared to offer suitable conditions for the conservation of the indigenous Slovenian population, and I would just like to say that subsidies are not a suitable way or way of stimulating them, because they are selective and take over only part of the population, while they would stimulate these processes in all under appropriate and general conditions. In particular, I would like to say that the government has predicted only 80% of the amount of relief that, according to some studies or studies, is necessary for the survival of one child. So, she didn't anticipate the full amount of relief, but 80% of what's supposed to be there. The additional problem I find controversial in this law is also a 30% reduction in general relief, from 3% to 2%, that is, I think, an important negative effect. However, by not taking into account in this overall relief the costs that are, say, necessary for a dependent family member. And yet another thing seems to me extremely controversial or very bad in this marriage. The problem is that the law somehow does not stimulate certain activities of the population. Here I think it is particularly important that part of these activities are designed to solve the first housing problem. And the reliefs that you would have, say, someone who for the first time would have solved their housing problem should go in the event of a full credit in the amount of tax relief, regardless of all the other conditions. I would just like to point out that we are in our party or I have also tabled a proposal in this area to amend the housing law, which deals specifically with these problems of first solving the housing problem. It is also contentious that the law also covers subsidies, so far mainly agricultural subsidies, and this approach is just another blow to the countryside. For it is quite clear that the vast majority of rural subsidies are granted, a very small part of them are citizens, and therefore this government's intention is mainly towards rural areas, as is the case with child welfare. And it is likely that this activity, or way of doing it, is in full harmony with the saying that it strikes the poor. At the same time, I would like to say that not all the subsidies are taxed. I also cannot help but overlook the fact that in a privileged situation, the transitive rich, who have become rich in a very short period of time, who have acquired enormous wealth in a very short period of time. And it is unacceptable that capital gains are not taxed during this whole period, but only from a certain period forward. I think that such exceptions concerning the richest part of the Slovenians to the percentage or two of the richest parts of the Slovenians are unnecessary, are not necessary and are also catastrophic for this country. Many countries that already have a solid economy are applying and taxing capital gains, and Slovenia as a transition country is an exception in this case and is among those rare countries that allow this option. It is those who can make the most of their contribution to the tax box that pay the least, but it is covered by everyone else. In this case, it would also make sense to determine, in any event, as in interest, the lower threshold or the threshold of the non-taxable capital profit. I think it would make sense not to cover the capital gains of the poorest, the smallest, but only those who are rich. In short, I assess that the law is written in the interest of electoral time, that it has a very clear intention to punish large families and rural areas, that it is written in the interest of transitional capitalists, and therefore I do not think it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I am also convinced that the time in which we have embarked on the tax package is not the most appropriate. Public assurances to the applicants or their forecasts that the reform of tax legislation is burdened by the category of people who have the most problems with human survival, however, certainly raises the hope that we remain a socially sensitive society. But even such good intentions sometimes miss the goal. It is therefore worth noting that there are some concerns. Thus, trade unions point out that the definition of what is not considered a credit rating in the proposed law is too narrow. Any medical examination required by the Staff Regulations or by the Conditions of Safety and Health at Work or by the general acts of the employer prior to the commencement of the work shall be carried out in a similar preventive health check, the checks to which the authorised physician is sent by the authorised doctor - the authorised doctor is a medical specialist responsible for the employer’s health at work, should not be prudent. However, in this point, the law defines as being exempt from prudentity only those checks whose non-execution is a criminal offence. Therefore, the proposal is contrary to the principles of ensuring safe and healthy work, contrary to international conventions, contrary to the European legal order, because conditions for the safe and healthy work of workers must not create financial obligations. Receipts other than ratings should also include active preventive medical leave to which the employer is sent by the employer after the decision of the authorised doctor. The function of active, preventive medical rest is to prevent the occurrence of disability, to prevent the occurrence of occupational diseases, to prevent the reduction of the worker's working capacity due to the harmfulness and risks to the health of the worker in the workplace, which cannot be remedied by other measures to reduce harmfulness and risks. Article 8(32), which provides that what is not included in the base for the income assessment, provides that the remuneration paid in accordance with the rules on working relationships for the termination of a working relationship exceeding 10 average wages in the Republic of Slovenia shall be paid in kind. This provision is challenged by the basic function of retirement, which is compensation for the loss of employment. Any worker who has not ceased his employment by his will or by his fault is excused for his retirement. It is wrong to claim that the retirement is of the nature of the remuneration that allows the worker to spend time on new employment. In this point, the law should provide that no income should be paid from the deductions paid under the provisions of the amount laid down by the Labour Relations Act or other labour law. As the trade unions warn us, the benefits from the employment relationship from which income is not paid should also include compensation paid by the employer for infringements of labour rights and injuries at work and occupational diseases. In these cases, it is not remuneration, but compensation which is recognised under the principles of civil law. The compensation provided for in Article 112 of the Labour Relations Act should be included in these compensations, compensation for lost earnings for the period of notice, in the event of the worker’s extraordinary cancellation. Article 166, which deals with compensation for unused annual leave of a worker for termination of employment, Article 184 of the same law, which refers to compensation for damage to the worker to whom the employer has caused him or her and to the damage caused to the worker by the violation of his or her rights under the employment relationship. These compensations should also include compensation for respect for the competitive clause to which the worker is entitled because he is not entitled to work. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the problems faced by disabled workers for many years. The main problem is that the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the employer do not account for the corresponding amount of income indemnification from both benefits together. I have also asked Members of Parliament questions about this, and I have been given answers that I am not satisfied with, and even less so are the disabled working with them. Since they do this separately, i.e. the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the employer, the progressive income scale results in unacceptable large returns or income payments following the delivery procedure. The minimum wage and the minimum remuneration shall be paid after a reasonable period of reimbursement over the course of the year, and the higher salary and higher compensation shall be paid unjustifiably by the debtors due to a low-accounted, fictitious advance on income from the pension and disability benefits of the institution. The drafter of the Income Act provides that all the costs incurred by the merger of both incomes are paid in the appropriate part and disability benefits, with the final annual allowance falling in the face of a disability worker. Therefore, it is, for the solely working disability, also a proportional part of the disability benefit, which should be settled by the pension and disability insurance institution. Finally, let me ask you a question related to the law on victims of war violence. This is mentioned in the law when it speaks of compensation, but I did not understand within what has been written, whether the applicant also ranks a pension among non-taxable sources. I believe that this will have to be addressed with the amendment in the second reading, as well as in all the matters I have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Prime Minister, Ambassador and Members. It is normal that it is difficult to adopt laws, that these are as fair as possible and that, in fact, if we look at tax legislation, it is based on the fairness of all layers of society. The advantage of the new Income Law is probably in many ways improving and putting the layer in our society in a more equal position, except of course some exceptions - some have already been mentioned today. I would like to address two issues in my debate: agriculture and family policy issues. The question of agriculture, where Article 21 states that subsidies shall not be paid by special rules as income, other than those laid down in Articles 34 and 58. As has already been said today, it is likely that the applicant's thinking in this context has been that in recent times the trend of subsidies and aid in agriculture, seen from the budget work, has increased significantly and that, of course, it is normal for the financier or financiers to have this money back here. However, I would really like to be prepared and objective here. In fact, it is unacceptable that our cadastral income, however valued at this time, has increased by more than 100% over the last eight years. However, agricultural crop prices declined dramatically during this period, falling by 100 percent and more. I have some comparisons ahead of me, i.e. in terms of inflation, the average annual inflation was at least 7.5% in 1995-2003 and the prices of agricultural products were on average 5.6% in this period. In particular, if I compare the situation with wheat in 1995, the yield per tonne of wheat produced was 173.8 euros, and in 2002 only 131.3, if we take into account, of course, 54,000 SIT per hectare of subsidy, we still get a negative difference of €4 per tonne. Thus, in addition to the subsidy, which is, as the compensatory payment between costs, between the difference in price, because prices are falling, the profitability of wheat for 4 euros per tonne is lower than in 1995 plus subsidies, together with subsidies. The difference between cattle and bovine animals is even greater. In 1995, a ton of living weight was valued at 1568.4 euros, and in 2002 a ton of cattle received living weights, i.e. 1249.6 euros. Together with subsidies that are naturally included, with 43 000 per question, we get a negative difference of € 101 per tonne of beef. It's, say, just one comparative representation. On the other hand, prices of agricultural repromaterials, fertiliser prices, mineral fertilisers increased by an average of 140% during this period. Here we come to the basic problem of the Income Act, the proposal as it is. Indeed, in the fact that our actual cadastral income is inadequately valued, valuable if subsidies were included, and the methodology is also controversial in this respect - I agree with the representatives of the ministry who will also find this in the debates. But it is unacceptable that, in addition to such an overblown cadastral income, subsidies would simply be added. According to the calculations they have shown, these obligations of farms are expected to increase significantly, notably by farms directly engaged in and living on agricultural production. It will probably be necessary to reach an agreement here. Otherwise, I wonder why every day in the Republic of Slovenia eight farms dry up, stop living if it is so nice to live on farms, if subsidies are so large that they must now be taxed with a large spoon. I believe that this indicator that eight farms die daily in Slovenia or that it stops farming should be very enlightened. You will say, yes, because this is the process of concentration of farms, we have on the other hand a larger farm. It doesn't work that fast. Of course, we have a significant number of 100,000 hectares and more cultivated agricultural areas in the last 10 years, so it is not a transfer of ownership and concentration, that farms will then be simply not interested in farming - of course in addition to all the assistance the country is trying to do and now also in the future through the European Union to encourage farming. For this reason, I believe that the Income Act is unconceivable for agriculture and that the issue of determining cadastral income should first be settled and re-arranged. The cadastral income law is probably inappropriate and needs to be corrected before placing it in the income section, according to this law, in the income. Unless, of course, this law is pending second reading or third reading, I believe that there is no other option at this time than that for a certain period it simply remains the same status as at this time. And secondly, you will say - yes it is necessary to cover all incomes in fact and also farms to stimulate them to also try to run a so-called simple bookkeeping. Here too, I do not think that the law is ingenuity compared to other European countries. Actually, the fact is, it's just a German case. In Germany, the country actually encourages the entry into the voluntary bookkeeping of farms and any farm that enters the voluntary management of bookkeeping, EUR 1,022 is donated. We do not have any relief from the law on income in order to promote simple accounting. In addition, I must also point out that all agricultural policy measures are not in fact measures that provide compensatory payments. This is also the question of support for early retirement, according to the transfer of farms, incomplete. If we read both Article 21 and Article 58 and so on of the Income Act, we can find that these dictatorships are not broken down, and I believe that the following should be done. First, the cadastral income law should actually be amended. According to my assessment, the closest to the Slovenian situation is the Italian model, where subsidies are also included in the evaluation of the cadastral income. In addition, include incentives to promote simple accounting. Of course, if these solutions do not make sense for the second reading, I think that is the most meaningful thing at the moment and also in the situation that we are to simply remain for a certain period of cadastral income, is that the basic definition of taxation is KD. Nor do we know today what the situation in agriculture will be after the entry into the European Union after 1 May. It will only take one year to determine whether our manufacturing industry and, of course, the whole agricultural sector are capable of this competitive fight in a wide, large European market. So much for a little bit about it. The second question is, of course, family policy. Here I agree that, in fact, for families with one, perhaps even two children, a new law on income-generating positive change is in place. But it brings almost certainly negative messages and negative changes to families with four and more children. According to statistics, there are 1438 families with more than five children in the Republic of Slovenia. I tell these families that they are actually Slovenian heroes, that they are those families that have actually done a great deal to preserve the vocabulary, even in these times that are not most fond of large families. In fact, I would appeal to the applicants to find a suitable way, before the second hearing, to ensure that these families, too, do not deteriorate in material terms, even within the framework of the Income Act. You'll say, it's possible in other marriages, parenting and family benefits and so on. We have little experience relying on other legislation, and I believe that the income law will also be one of the messages of this national assembly and this country to larger families, because I think they deserve special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the Income Act, I would like to draw attention to another extremely important effect of this law, which is the financial consequences of this law. Income is an extremely important source of funding for municipalities. In fact, the only systemic tax source, whose part, which is 35% of the paid income, is the country, has resigned for the financing of municipalities. Income represents between 40% and 60% of their total income for the municipalities. As a result of a reduction in the burden of natural persons, the congregations are expected to lose some of the estimated ten to 12 billion tolars in the material. This omission should not be problematic for municipalities that receive a difference in their proper spending, since it will be covered by the State. However, the problem arises with so - called congregations that are self-financed. In Slovenia, however, there are fewer and fewer, since there are only 22 such municipalities from 193 municipalities at the moment, indicating a major systemic error and also injustice in determining tax resources that do not allow municipalities to be financially independent. Amendments to the Income Act will unfortunately be in such a position, highly developmentally inadequate and inappropriate, to push down all Slovene municipalities, and there will also be no more of those 22 self-financing. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has repeatedly pointed out this problem to the Ministry of Finance, but it is obvious that no new law on the financing of municipalities will be adopted in this mandate. The effects of self-financed municipalities are completely eliminated by other laws, as, for example, these municipalities receive only 10% of the country's co-financing share in investments. It is also not possible to replace this by a new, not yet established real estate law, since it is not considered by the profession to constitute a significantly higher financial burden than the current compensation for building land. We therefore propose that the proposed 148th Article, which covers the loss of revenue of municipalities, should be amended in the law, not only for 2005, as provided for in this Article, but for the whole period until the adoption of a new law on the financing of municipalities. We also believe that it is necessary to cover for the municipalities the total loss of these revenues and not again, as stated in this Article, in the first reading under the possibility of a state budget, since, last but not least, experience shows that this can mean nothing. We expect the proposer to take this into account, as the loss of these funds could severely jeopardise the functioning of the municipalities and the coverage of the fundamental obligations they have, particularly in the area of social assistance, subsidisation of rents, provision of funds for normal work of kindergartens, schools, cultural institutions and the like. In this way, again as a result, the most socially vulnerable strata of the population would be affected, which would in fact be the worst to lose. Such a non-systematic and partial solution, which only comes from the Income Act and so radically interferes with the Community funding system, would only deepen the irregularity and non-systematicity in the financing of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Zalokar. Now he has the word of his colleague Aloise Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone! I think that there is little time for such an important law to be thoroughly debated. I'm just going to touch on the agriculture issue for a little while. I'd start like this. After 1945, great damage was caused to Slovenian agriculture. I hope that this proposal will not continue. That is why I would urge the proposers of this income law to take a good look at the arguments of the agrarian economists, including Dr. Jerjavac and Dr. Kavčič, who warn you that such a proposal as is before us today is unacceptable and will cause further deterioration of Slovenian agriculture. I would not like to repeat what my colleague, Rokavec, said earlier in some calculations, but I would like to add something to it because Dr. Marble said in his opening remarks that subsidies in agriculture should be taxed because they are growing. See, in 1992 we spent 8.4 billion Slovenian tolars on agriculture, or at the time it was 3.9% of the budget, which was a total of 217 billion. In 2003, we spent 57 billion and 4% of the budget, which was 1.437 billion, on agriculture. So that's how this budget grew. I have to say, if I go back now, that the budget for Minister Osterc's time was not as small as some wanted to show - I repeat, at that time it was 3.9% of the budget, and today it is 4%. In the face of all the additional burdens that this National Assembly has accepted at the expense of Slovenian agriculture, with the rise in the prices of repromaterial, as explained earlier by colleague Rokavec, shows our agriculture before entering the European Union quite a clarinet image, but you are responsible for it by those who have been leading this resort all this time and who have regulated agricultural policy. Now we have a law on income. I myself am joining those who demand that this area be thoroughly examined, that it be well thought out, that no mistake be made in this respect, so that, because of this new income law, which will not contribute significantly to the state treasury, many who are doing agriculture as a complementary activity today would give up and continue to abandon this activity. Earlier, a fellow Rokavec mentioned that a few farms stop daily. And indeed, in the last three years, I think that the number of those doing this activity has dropped significantly, from 86.467 in 2000 to 77.145 in 2003, which actually means eight farms every day. And just for the end. We in our parliamentary group have ordered our research institutions in the National Assembly to prepare a comparative review of agricultural taxes for the members of the European Union. We received this morning because we missed the Austrian model in this research assignment - Austria is somehow the most comparable. Only two, three sentences from the end of this assignment will I read because I'm running out of time. The Austrian agricultural tax regime is comparable to other arrangements in EU Member States. Subsidies are only indirectly taxed in the payment of profit taxes and in the taxation of property. In the framework of income payments, a system of flat-rate taxation of agricultural income is developed which depends on the size of the farm, the type of farm and the quality of the land. Once again, who depends - is a real flat-rate taxation - which depends on the size of the farm, the type of farms and the quality of the land. I suggest that you consider and apply for Slovenia the same principle as they do in our neighbourhood, because after that we are the most similar in the agricultural sector, not in Germany, not in France or in some other countries, but in neighbouring Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Sushinik. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! This Income Act once again gravely exposes the government's relationship, the relationship between the ruling coalition and the countryside, because we simply and simply cannot interpret the attempt to end the progressive tax relief for many families and, on the other hand, the attempt to further tax agriculture, whose fate is inseparably linked to rural fate. It is not a coincidence or likely that the authors of this law have deliberately guided the integrity of this present tax country because the story of the past is repeating. We have recently heard that everything since 1945 has been treated in a similar way and the shape of the rural destiny. It's very short term. I do not think that this offers good promises or is not in line with the repeatedly implemented agricultural policy, which is intended to take care of rural settlement and preserve the productive capacity of the Slovenian country. In vain are all the analyses that we are listening to, which explicitly demonstrate that the economic situation of Slovenian agriculture in the year decreases or worse, that the outlook in agriculture is poor, that the interest in farming in young people has dropped significantly, that it is virtually gone. This shows, last but not least, the entry into agricultural education programmes, but despite all this, it is simply impossible to believe that not all of this would have been known in the agricultural field in the past, at a time and under the auspices of the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union, when you have repeatedly proposed and adopted legislation that has imposed excessively too much regulation in the agricultural field or, as a rule, more stringent measures than the European Union knows, which has led to an increasing number of administrations and unnecessary or unacceptable costs in the field of food production. I would like to draw particular attention to the scales of veterinary legislation and the related burdens and, as a result, the attempt now to tax direct provisions in the agricultural area recognised by the common agricultural policy of the European Union as compensation for improving the income situation of agriculture. Lawmakers or I am sure that this law will also be supported by coalition parties, you simply ignore all these facts and propose the taxation of subsidies, which is totally unacceptable. I'm just wondering where is the threshold for the patience of the Slovenian farmer when they will realize that this process needs to be stopped. This stop will certainly not be possible in any other way than with tractors and trailers. I'm sure this will happen soon. I would like to mention here that the proposal before us is also the result of ignorance of the actual ignorance of everything that has happened in rural areas or agriculture. But if it's the other way around, then it's a reflection of ignorance. Finally, it is necessary to know that the abolition of the exemption from supplementary activity also has a significant impact on development or on rural life. Let me remind you that the municipal standard in the Republic of Slovenia is unfortunately very different and that payment of these services through complementary activities has also been established as an established form of maintenance of public roads or, above all, winter maintenance of public roads. If we knew the situation, we would know that one import road to a high mountain or a farm in the middle of the mountain is simply not able to otherwise maintain or crawl in an established way, and this is that a farmer can crawl, clear this road from above down, you would understand what this intervention in the taxation of complementary activities on the farm would mean. It is just now that the local community will no longer find a way and a way to pay for this activity. I do not expect this to bother anyone, that the relationship of government parties, which have already shown with the proposal, how far they have been to rural development, has changed to something, because it is clear to me that no one in Ljubljana cares about how that farmer is going to come up from the hill or from Pohorje to the valley. That's the real state. Ignorance of such small and similar problems is immeasurable. For this reason, I fully support all those who bring together farmers, both the farmers' union of Slovenia and the agri-agricultural chamber, who are trying to change the procedures that have been run and the attempts to tax complementary activities have been avoided. In doing so, I regret to conclude that the Advisory and Agriculture Chamber does not justify the expectations of its members in this area. However, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has failed to meet my expectations in this respect in order to express itself around these attempts at taxation in the field of agriculture. If this is an additional preparation of the Slovenian farmer before entering the European Union, then this preparation is previously counterproductive to its purpose or kind of preparation, which will further accelerate the trend of the decline of Slovenian farms. No one is likely to be touched by the information that, at this moment, we have heard many times today, in the growth of over 100,000 hectares of the best Slovenian land and that 10 Slovenian farms have already fallen daily. This does not come at the expense of rounding up and increasing the property, but at the expense of growing and permanently changing the image of the Slovenian countryside. It's sad, but it's real. Members of the opposition are powerless, we can only look at it and warn. Sadly, though, no one responds to these warnings. I will once again express my conviction that this is happening, that these purposes can be stopped only by some organised protest of farmers. I expect and I am sure that these protests will take place in a very short time, because in such a situation or such an uncertain and bad situation as this government has brought a Slovenian farmer, it cannot be worse, and I believe that there are some boundaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. Now my colleague has the word mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, it would be good to discuss comprehensive tax reform earlier, not in the electoral year, in order to be able to adopt comprehensively conceived, professional and politically acceptable solutions resulting from all the laws of the tax package. This is due in particular to the projected lower inflows from income, as it is necessary to identify the implications for budgets, in particular local communities, as well as the state budget, which consequently also affects the State's ability and willingness to finance local communities. Of course, I stress that I fully support the basic intent of the law aimed at decommissioning the weaker income strata of the population. That's exactly why I'm going to support the marriage. In view of the impact of the changes on the income of local communities, I would like to draw particular attention to the envisaged solution in Article 148, which has also emerged from the efforts of the United Nations Social Democrats to deal with the income law so far. The solution envisaged, however, is not yet a satisfactory guarantee for the financing of self-financing local communities, according to our assessment of the significant loss of income from income. We have proposed an increase in the share of the municipality's income to 27% in 2005 and 39% in the coming years to ensure that these municipalities do not lose such a high share of their income after 2004. For illustration only, for the municipality of Maribor, this would mean a fall of between 800 and 600 million. The drop would be on average for Slovenia, as we read, about 9.5%, and on average up to 20% in municipalities where there is the most exemption. The situation in which self-financing is being financed today is indeed that a very small number of municipalities since 193 cover a very large part of the population, and it is worrying and shows a poor attitude toward funding the municipalities. At the same time, those who are self-financing wish to reduce income from income, which shows that local communities are too dependent on the will of the country to exercise their powers and powers. At the same time, we still impose new and new obligations on them through state laws and by-laws. In the United List of Social Democrats, we expect to find more appropriate solutions for this article by the second reading of the law. We expect stronger guarantees for the extent of the revenue of the municipalities and not only the promised amounts of compensation under the budget option; in the end, it usually turns out that there are no such options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Spending. Now my friend Brenčič is not here. Did you agree on a replacement within the parliamentary group? Okay. You have the floor, mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I would also like to speak briefly about the taxation of agriculture. I think we have to assume that, in reducing income on farms, tax reform must not make farmers' income worse. So far, farmers or owners of agricultural land and forests have been taxed on the basis of the cadastral income included in the income base. The proposal for a new Law on Income provides that income from basic agricultural and forestry activities is also a subsidy. This means that the subsidies would be directly taxed after the new. We oppose this in our parliamentary group. We believe that such a solution would impose additional tax burden on agricultural production and farmers. Subsidies are not income, but farm income. Subsidies, such as eco 0, direct payment, are intended to cover costs between own and market prices of agricultural crops. We also know compensatory payments such as Eco 1, Eco 2 and Eco 3. These payments are intended to cover costs in difficult production conditions, with smaller crops and the nature of a more friendly way of farming. Research by agrarian economists shows that, despite the increase in these payments in recent years, the income situation of agriculture has not improved on average due to the relative decline in buying-in prices and the increase in production costs. Colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that the envisaged solution to the new Income Act is to take into account, as an original source of income, payments from agricultural policy measures, such as those mentioned above, subsidies, grants and cash aid, in order to ensure that this approach is not sufficiently prudent and completely inconsistent with the existing methodology for calculating cadastral income. We have an unhurried earth cadaster that does not reflect the actual use of agricultural land. The calculations are not updated annually and therefore the cadastral income values do not take into account the real price drop in agricultural products and the price rise in production costs. The modified method of taxation in agriculture would only be fair if they had previously adapted the methodology for the evaluation of cadastral income, which would take account of the actual use and quality of land. The proposed amendments to the Income Act in the field of agriculture would primarily harm those farmers with a larger area in processing. If the methodology for calculating the cadastral income is not adapted to the actual situation pending the implementation of the amendments to the Income Act, this could mean an extremely high tax burden on individual taxpayers, which would not reflect the actual or potential income situation of agricultural families. I think that we should give reasonable consideration to the possibility that, as in the case of value added tax, we should make it possible for a voluntary decision to enter tax on the actual income from agriculture to be demonstrated by the farms concerned on the basis of a guided simplified bookkeeping. That's how we know in France. I must also mention the taxation method in Italy and Austria. Otherwise, this has already been mentioned slightly in previous discussions. In Italy, there is a system of taxation in terms of cadastral income, premiums or state aid subsidies are not taxed, cadastral income is fixed for individual cultures and classes. It consists of two parts, the economic work paid by the landowner and the agricultural work paid by the land processor. To illustrate, in Italy there is a tax on economic work per hectare of vineyards of 13 thousand Slovenian tolars and an agrarian part of 12 thousand. Of this, 10% of the income is paid to the State. This is undoubtedly a very favourable tax policy for agriculture. They also understand the importance of agriculture very well in Austria. Their goal is to settle and settle the countryside. This is also regulated by systemic tax policy in the way that only flat-rate income from agriculture goes to income. However, no State premiums or support are taxed. Colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that the proposed law is instimulatingly regulating tax policy in the field of agriculture. Our Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will undoubtedly be notified for second reading as an interested working body and will also deal substantively with this third chapter. However, we expect the applicants to take these proposals into account and make tax policy comparable as they do in neighbouring countries. If they do not prepare this, we will also propose, in accordance with the procedure, amendments to exclude inter-neighbourly aid from taxation in order to complete the threshold for standardised costs, in supplementary activities, to increase from the proposed 25% to 60%; support from agricultural policy measures should be included in the calculation of cadastral income and this cadastral income should also be updated and amended, including the implementation of this law. We need to introduce a new system for calculating cadastral income, and compensation payments and investment support must be excluded from the tax base, and we need to allow farmers to manage simple accounting voluntarily. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you. My colleague Butolen now has the floor, followed by his colleague Barovic, but he is not yet in the hall. But now I think the time is up. Comrade Butolen, then Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! The Income Act is, in my opinion, a suitable basis for making a simple decision because it relieves just the poorest of the population. In my debate, I would like to briefly address the two issues which have sparked the most debate in the public. Unfortunately, sometimes quite demagogic. Above all, I would like to talk about large families and agriculture, like most colleagues and colleagues in front of me. With regard to the number of letters and the initiatives we have received from citizens, one would say that something dramatic, very bad is happening in this area, something that will in fact completely destroy large families. The current scale has been progressive and has had between 10 and 220% reliefs for average Slovenian wages. The proposed scale is thus linear and takes into account that approximately the same resources are needed for each further child. Taking into account the overall relief, which rises from 11% to 17.2%), and this is included in the proposed Child Allowance, we can find that a family with one child will in fact have 10% more reliefs, a family with two children 9.6% more reliefs, a family with three children 5.4% more relief, a family with four children a 2.6% less relief, a family with five children a 14.8% less relief, a family with six children a 31% less relief and so on. The data of eight children would be that 75% is less favourable, given the average Slovenian salary. Of course, based on these percentages, this seems horrifying. What is the truth, reality? But it's something else. Reality means that a family with eight children after the current 233% chance of relief. If we convert this into money, we could, of course, apply a 7 million 79 thousand 472 dollars tax liability. Please, fellow Members and fellow Members, look at your envelopes, who has the opportunity to apply such a relief. We can increase these reliefs on paper, but in fact, when it comes to the poorest layers that will be affected today, those with such incomes certainly do not belong to the poorest layers. In our rural area, I checked the information in my congregation, I come from one of the poorest congregations, it will not hurt anyone. It is also, of course, necessary to take into account the fact that we have other policies in the field of demographics, these are social policies which, of course, take account of children's allowances. And there's a progressive scale, and there's something else I could count. Of course, we would be happy to have people with such incomes in this area so as to be able to give them such benefits. I don't think it's that dramatic. However, it would certainly be worth looking at a second reading, or there is something else to be done for families with four and five children. I do not think that the very strategy or structure of the revenue of any improvement would mean too much reduction in the inflow to the budget. The second issue is, of course, agricultural policy. It should also be said that in these poorest areas, the majority do not reach such amounts with subsidies in order to be affected. Here, too, I have reviewed the information in my congregation, and I will say, sadly, that I would be glad if I had someone who paid taxes on this account. Sadly, we do not have anyone in the congregation who would be hurt and should pay taxes. Unfortunately, you'd be glad to have rich farmers like that. That's why I think the estimates that this is going to be such a terrible impact on the countryside that it's going to be necessary to come here with tractors is too much. They'd better store that fuel for the spring work that's about to begin. Of course, I would point to one thing that I think is necessary. In Article 21, it would be imperative to include in tax exemptions the exemption from the tax on inter-neighbourly aid. This is very important for rural areas and for these poorest regions. Because there people are hard to buy machines, they are unprofitable, they are pointless, and they do not pay off economically. And in this way, when the so-called neighbourly assistance was organised 10 years ago, where the so-called machine circles in Slovenia are organised, following the example of Western Europe, where we are involved at this time, it is essential that the countryside does not grow as much as it could or as it will be if we tax this issue. I think that these revenues are so small that taxation of these incomes would bring very little income in the state budget and would cause a lot of damage on the ground. That is why I think it would be necessary, and I also have an amendment that I am going to table to correct in the second reading, and it is a shame, if we tax it, that it will be huge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague Butolin. A colleague of mags. The trifle man now has a word behind him, Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm gonna touch three points. The first is funding or relief for various purposes, limited to 2%. When we had a debate on these non-governmental organisations in the field of drugs, and elsewhere, in the field of disability, we found that civil society is not working in this area. Why isn't it working? Because it is all involved in the financing directly from the budget. In such a way that you limit to 2%, we will not have NGOs for a long time in Slovenia. All you do is be government organisations and are financed directly by the budget on such or other calls. The one who gives the money is the master. That's wrong. This should be opened up significantly more for government, sports, humanitarian, charitable and I do not know any other organisations, like in other countries, that want to encourage the development of civil society. You say you will provide 12 billion budget money for the operation of the organisations. But it's government money. And then state officials or politicians direct what civil society will do. This is the destruction of civil society and NGOs. Second. In Novi Slovenije we have introduced a law on the extreme reduction of tax liability. This is a relief for those who do not achieve a certain income in full. This could achieve a good goal, namely, unloading the lowest layers. What did you guarantee? General relief in a certain percentage for one who is rich or poor. This is essentially a kind of camouflaged approach, through which you will lose a lot of budget money, and achieve little effect. Next thing you know, kids' exemptions and a progressive scale. In the resolution on family policy, we said that we would harmonise or balance direct and indirect facilitations. With this scale you set, you're essentially making the situation of large families worse. That's what the others were talking about. I wonder what the ruling coalition is thinking about, how it thinks that the existing situation, which is certainly not good, is actually making this law worse for families with multiple children. Now I'm running out of time. I gotta go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Pukšič, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, Mr President. One Slovenian proverb says, "When you step on a cat's tail, it wails." And I am also one of those Slovenian parents who has more than two children. Of course, I can't help but talk about the part of the benefits that apply to families with multiple children when it comes to the income law that is currently under consideration. The main point to this law is that if most taxpayers increase their tax base, there is no reason and no justification why such tax relief would not be possible for those slightly larger Slovenian families. There really aren't many of them. Of course, we can view this as a child tax, if this is the purpose of this government, then it is not true, although children do not belong to that type of wealth that would be subject to taxation. Why would such a way of taxation, income, punish those rare families who still have the courage and joy to live? However, I am convinced that the proposal for a law on income at the time of possible reception, such as it is, would clearly show the position of the ruling Slovenian policy of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom that large families are not desirable for this ruling coalition; that they are not concerned about the decline in the number of children; that we will have new taxpayers who will take care of our pensions and the Intergenerational Treaty somewhere else; and that, of course, there is no more concern for the future of the nation, at a time when the Slovenians are less each day. What is the meaning of the State of Slovenia without Slovenians or Slovenians as a minority of international immigrants? I understand that the country needs money for its operations, which has already been shown in some of the debates here. You need a lot of money to pay the director of the insurance company Triglav 3 million 100 thousand gross, and no one gets circumcised. You spent a lot of money on the plane, on the airport, on the police boat and so on, but of course no good, except for the burden of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. And if you're going to do it on a handful of these more numerous families, you don't have the right intention. One of the parents wrote: "I am the father of four children and a wife without a job, so we live only on my salary. The autumn starts with secondary schooling by the second child and after experience with the first one, the family budget will increase further. The costs for a child attending high school are significantly higher than for a primary school or university; you know that too. On the basis of the recalculation of the new Income Act, I have found that the country with the new law will give me an additional modest family budget. I just don't understand how it's possible for the fourth child and everything else to give no encouragement. He says he even explains his actions with the theory that the costs for each next child are lower. Of course that's not true. Be aware that without children all efforts and entry into European ties for Slovenia mean nothing." And a few more statistics. From 1991 to 2002, there were 10,000 more families without children. There were 1,000 fewer families who had four children or 400 smaller families who had more than five children. In short, the indicators show that from 1991 to 2002, the number of children dropped from two, three, four or five down, while the numbers of families without children and families with only one child increased. It follows from this statistics that this is the definitive destruction of families with three or more children, so such a proposal will have to be either rejected or, of course, substantially amended. This is what the Slovenian Democrats will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. My colleague Jerica Frostel, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The distinguished representative of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament, loves the people. I would like to speak on behalf of those who, not only do not understand them well, I do not think they understand them well, because this way of work is not known and we do not have many representatives here. I'd like to speak on behalf of the carriers of immaterial wealth. Look, I've got it in my hands here, by chance, I got the Icarus Dream book today. How would we tax this book to those who want to buy it, and how would we tax the one who wrote it, if now Happy lived, how would we evaluate it and tax it? It's about intangible wealth, and I'd like to talk about it very briefly, because there's not much time. See, Article 53 mentions charitable stimulation, charity, humanitarian, cultural and other purposes, in short, here you now have a tax recovery of 0.3. We propose at least 1% higher reductions in the tax base in order to contribute to people giving more for these purposes and not to be afraid that taxpayers would allocate certain funds to such a large extent, because at least so far there has been no such thing as an exception to the rule. Here I remember one thing that no one talks about, and I can't talk about it either. We have a very large organization with us, including a very rich organization that receives donations without control day after day, and no one gets involved in it. Whether we hope or not, I don't know. And I won't call it a word either. Nobody's talking about it. But if anyone asks me, I can tell, but maybe it's, I don't know, it can be dangerous to talk about it or something. Let's move on. In the second paragraph of Article 108, after coordination, the price of $3 million has risen, which we welcome. We had a meeting and this number is also the result of this meeting and also an understanding of cultural creativity. Thank you so much for that gesture. But cultural representatives propose and propose that this amount increase to 5 million tolars. In their annual pricing proposal relating to the right to payment of the minimum social security contributions, they are derived from the payment class for soloists or specialist professions. The right is linked to an exceptional contribution to Slovenian culture, which also requires an appropriate income comparison, given that the value added tax law places 5 million tolars as a threshold for VAT accounting. I propose or propose that this amount be uniform in all cases. I said it very briefly. I want you to understand me very simply. I think we need to be more inclined to the creators of intangible wealth, because this is also one of the great values in our society and our culture, if we want to, especially now that we are going to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I don't see a colleague like this. My friend Kavčič is here, and that's why he has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Your Honor! The law is kind in its announced content because it reduces the tax burden or represents at least the more favourable part of tax reform based on increased capital burdens and reduced labour burdens. The scope of the decommissioning is estimated to be around 26 billion tolars for 2005. In my view, I would limit some of the solutions to this law to just two. First of all, the one that is processed in Articles 18 and 19 of the draft law and which discusses rules for determining income and income. In this regard, the applicant considered that the individual definitions of income in the current scheme were not sufficient and that the status of individuals who obtain individual types of income was not adequately regulated in many cases. In addition, the applicant assesses that taxpayers use a status that allows them to be treated more favourably. While the more detailed value of the analysis of this problem does not represent the applicant, it considers it necessary to introduce a definition of the nature of income and takes the view that the content is more important than the form. Such a position would probably require a slightly more detailed presentation and justification in the subsequent stages of the processing of the law. It is possible to agree with the view that the tax burden must be allocated in a fair and transparent manner to the widest possible number of taxpayers and the scope of the burden must be adjusted to the actual economic power. Nevertheless, the proposed arrangement raises certain issues and dilemmas. Only this emphasis, highlighting the difference between form and content, is in a philosophical sense very close to that Marxist principle of dialectic materialism. More than that, it is concerned about the assumption that the tax administration will now become a judge of the content of the business, of the business content. The tax administration is the one who knows what the content of the business is. Nobody else knows. Thus, written and even oral contracts between business operators will become tax-free. This would give the tax industry an all-powerful right to assess business content. This can be controversial, especially from the point of view of the kindness of the business environment. I see a little bit of a potential problem here. Of course, to understand that the applicant wanted to exclude from the Slovenian business environment the possibility of contracting legal persons, this is based on these arrangements. In my personal opinion, this is bad from the point of view of strengthening the competitive power of the Slovenian economy. Understanding and supporting, of course, is a possible government effort to limit the excessive earnings of individuals, but it seems to me that this path, which the applicant has chosen in this case is not the best, is not the right one, because the proposed solutions will make it impossible for the entire business sector of operators in the field of business services, for example, accounting services and other business services in independent economic operators, which have developed from former independent business operators, i.e. large business entities, in the context of major business restructuring processes. We would therefore expect a certain law-making in order to find a more entrepreneurship-friendly solution, or we would want to bathe the baby in a way that flushes the baby with dirty water. About interest. The bill provides for wider taxation of interest. In order to avoid the negative consequences of the imposition of interest taxation, the applicant provides for an annual untaxed amount of interest income of 300,000 tolar. This amount seems to me on the one hand quite well measured, since it means that the saver would not pay interest on the stake up to the amount, about 10 million tolars can be calculated. For normal savings, such a solution would probably be quite appropriate, but it will not have a positive impact on the savers of the national austerity scheme and, of course, on other savers. The question, of course, is also raised as to whether it is necessary to give up on the wealthy. Maybe, maybe not. Such a change will not be good for business enforcement of Slovenian banks. However, of course, we understand that, of course, the drafter has incorporated the principle of integral taxation into the draft law. However, consideration should be given to modifying this principle and introducing a cedular principle of taxation of the financial and capital revenues of natural persons. Perhaps such a solution would be worth considering even to the detriment of the tax exemption of the capital gains of natural persons for investments of more than three years as is now the case. The solution for all capital and financial revenues to be treated separately and taxed at a single rate, for example 15%, would be simpler and probably more favourable both for the budget and for taxpayers, but, of course, they should be exempt from taxation, in my opinion, long-term savings in any case of housing savings and other long-term savings of more than five or six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Kavčič. Next up is a colleague of Tsukati. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Well, it's been said repeatedly that this marriage is nice to taxpayers, I'd say, like who. It has been said that it is very social in order to relieve mainly the poor. Well, let's see. The one who earns 0.8 average wages is said to be already below the average wage, will pay 9,000 tolls per year less income than so far. But those who earn five average wages will pay 90,000 tolls less income than they have paid so far, that is to say, five times the difference in wages will come better through, up to ten times the burden of those who have a high salary. It's called a pre-election flyer. That's not how it works. The second point is that this marriage is kind to families, to children. I must say, whoever has one child will pay less. And if we take a middle layer somewhere, let's say those who have two average wages that earn two average wages that earn two average wages if they have one child to pay 44,000 dollars a year. Very nice. But if they're 6 years old, they'll pay 200,000 more income than they've paid so far. I don't think that's a nice marriage for families. The problem in families is the 1996 Constitutional Court decision, which stated that the costs for a child should be recognised at the real amount of the minimum costs for the child and that these costs should not be taxed. In fact, it is very unfair for parents to pay extra tax on what they offer to a child. Then that's a child tax. That's what they say, from what they spend on a child, on sneakers, on a school in nature, on everything, on food and the like, they pay another tax - and that's a child's tax. And, of course, the issue of this minimum of living, which the Constitutional Court had already requested in 1996 to be defined and defined as a tax relief, has always been an apple of the dispute what it is. In these discussions, the history of determining this minimum cost is already quite good. We have to say that this was the case: in 1997, as a minimum cost, which was considered a tax benefit for the child, there were 24,000 tolars, which was 17% of the gross salary at the time; then we had Mr Puck's proposal, which was calculated by the social services, which was 30,000 tolars, which in 2001 was 14% of the gross salary at the time, which is less. And in April 2002, the fostering law already laid down the minimum material cost for a child of 19% of the gross wage at the time. Compared with the German model, where they also have certain obligations towards the child in the Constitution and the whole system is very similar to ours in this respect, they recognise as a tax relief of 7,000 tolars, which in our situation would be 28% of the average wage. We have to say that our sneakers are as expensive as in Germany, and this would bring us very close to the real costs that should be recognised as tax relief. The Constitutional Court is then, on the basis of the fact that in our Constitution, it is clearly stated in four places that special care is given to children, namely, maintenance, education, child rearing, and that even the Criminal Code in 201st Article states: "Parent who neglects the minor for whom he has to care by seriously violating his duties of care and education commits a crime." This means that if parents do not offer a child a proper way of life, they are violating not only the constitution but also the code. And if this is not harmonized, if this is not acknowledged in this law, then injustice is done and parents are burdened with what they spend on their child. We believe that this is a child's real tax, and in this sense this law is very unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. My friend Potts has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The new Income Law is justified because, and if it does indeed contribute to a more balanced labour and capital burden, if it contributes at least a little to lower labour burden and thus to greater competitiveness of the labour-intensive industries, and thus to maintaining jobs, it will also contribute, at least to a minimum, to reducing the truly unacceptable social differences that have occurred in the last ten years due to under-privatisation, denationalisation, fair pay policies, not only in the private sector but also in the public sector. We know that this cannot be resolved primarily by tax legislation and tax policy alone. However, the fact that the largest capital gains remained untaxed over a long period of time that tax policy and tax procedures failed to always ensure the proper application of the tax and to measure and settle the tax of those debtors who earned the most, since, in a decade and less, they would not have achieved a wealth that could not be created by honest work in any generation. All of this calls for a reminder that new solutions have been announced in the Income Law a good one, says, but only the smallest step towards managing wages, income and social differences, with all the measures available to the State. I do not want to, and I am convinced that there are so many of us that we can get to a more socially just society through an uncontrollable social relationship that would cause not only dissatisfaction but also a sense of dissatisfaction, poverty, social and social exclusion of a large group of citizens, but also social tensions and unrest. Finally, let me say that this approach to eliminating excessive differences is also necessary through tax policy and is also necessary when entering Europe. In it, we will realise that the constant increase in the level of minimum incomes for the prudent management of the labour and private sector income ratios and the regulation of social justice is one of the fundamental social tasks and conditions for co-existence of work and capital, for social well-being and for the social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Potsch. Now he has the word of a colleague Trofenik, but not for long, because time is limited to four minutes and something.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, and a nice greeting to the audience. Very briefly, in four points of view, I would like to draw attention to some, in my opinion unacceptable, solutions in the bill. I'll start at the back. In the transitional provisions, Article 148, concerning the budget of the municipalities, which some debaters have already discussed today, of course with a different view or belief. I think that this article in this law has nothing to look for and that the proposaler in some way bowed down to a minority who can, in view of having something too much, also manage to lobby and pressure that this privilege, due to the uneven distribution of income in the Slovenian space, would continue with this anomaly. Let me point out that this surplus is estimated to be between 18 and 20 billion income in 22 municipalities from a key 35% income that exceeds the measured needs through the formula or appropriate consumption. Income as a source of income for local budgets is extremely inadequate due to uneven distribution, so it would be a good solution if the relevant law were to minimise the share of income in municipalities' incomes, but not in some way to try through this special law with some transitional provisions to even potentise or maintain an anomaly that is unacceptable. Secondly, allow me to touch on Article 56, or the income achieved by individual businesses, from a specific point of view as regards the work of professional tasks in sport. This is the cost of the professional tasks they are called the trial, and it is also the cost in terms of the profession in part when it comes to trainers and similar ones who are not professionals and are not in a professional relationship. This 56th Article, which will exacerbate the situation in relation to Article 57, makes it easier for this industry to reach 10% unacceptable, although it must be recognised that the two articles in conjunction, if I read it, give Article 101 and Article 101 give some new quality, which has not so far been, in terms of the recognition of travel costs, since so far the travel costs have also been taxed for such users or, in particular, if I say that any sports society has had to pay the judges, travel costs and daily expenses have also been taxed. There is progress in Article 101, but nevertheless we are making it easier, as provided for in Article 57, to be absolutely too low. Why? In addition to the compensation for the work carried out or the work carried out by such an expert, it, of course, also has part of the cost of the equipment and all it has to have in material terms. That's how he has to buy and pay VAT. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid that there would be no appropriate follow-up or appropriate participation in public finances, of course through another type of tax. And the third thing I don't think the solutions are good is relief or relief. I'm gonna be a little mean. We can forgive the payment of fees on fees or diaries, or as we call it, for members of the electoral committees and electoral committees, but we are not prepared to do this for a gift that someone would hand over to him - I will say in particular - as the mayor I find myself many times in such a situation; a centennial or a couple celebrating 50 years or more of law, this law gives me the possibility of 5,000 tolars of gift value, and forgive the centenary indeed for 5,000 tolars, but hopefully not such a loss. I'm sorry. If you'll excuse me just one sentence?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	One sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	The deposit of income is so that I just can't understand why the state won't let me order more income, I'm more willing to pay from the outside than at the end of a few hundred thousand bills. And again this law bears the same solution as is currently in force, as if the state had too much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Comrade Trophynik. My friend Skull has a word now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I also think that this idea of somehow equalising the income burdens in some way is good. The question is whether all these solutions, which we have with exemptions and special regimes, are carried out in such a way that they are not at risk on their own. But if we take this as the starting point, it's also possible to judge individual ideas from this point of view. I intend to say a few words myself about this work, which speaks of the work and the regimes that are established at the time of the author's work. Here's the thing, I'm going to say some really important news, which is worth discussing, recalculating, and finally seeing if they serve this idea of the same burden. For years and years, I have advocated that those who choose the path of independent professions, for example, in culture, should also be able to do research and add here to the press, which is completely abandoned, only to try through various incentives to enable these professions to carry out themselves as easily as possible. Most of the incentives so far have not been enough to stimulate self - employment. This solution, which brings revenue at the annual level, to a figure of 15%, is certainly a step in the right direction in this respect. Nevertheless, it is worth calculating when we compare these figures with the costs that the public sector, say, has, or does not show this 15% increase. It is also worth checking to see if we will not put all this copyrighted work at risk with this fairly radical cut when the standard costs are reduced from 40% to 10%. The vast majority of the copyright work is nevertheless organized so that I hope to say that 10% is not, I will say, the number that could cover even the costs of those authors who have the least, I will say, material and other costs. This number is certainly, I will say, in my opinion radical, but I understand it as a reminder that the instrument of copyright was all too easily used to pay for various matters in the public sector as well as in the private sector. It seems to me that in further procedures it is only wise to calculate, on the one hand, what these 10% of the standard costs mean and what it means to keep books for individual authors, and also whether this difference, which is welcome between self-employed and employees, can be captured with these 15% in relief. If we're talking about the freebies, then I think it's worth thinking about some more necessary relief, some possible investment. Practically the majority of singles, if they want to buy, say, studios, can't show it in any way as a relief. There are few who can afford it, and with the system of various leasing contracts this possibility can also be shown to many. Neither the congregation nor the state are solving these problems. In the case of the establishment of spatial conditions for the work of the freemen, I do not think it is possible to deal with speculators in the way that funds flow into, I don't know, cars, etc. From this point of view, it seems to me that this is one of the things worth considering. Practically they cannot reach the spaces for their work without public funds, these means of public funding for these purposes are virtually non-existent, but they themselves cannot calculate it in, I will say, their 'business activity'. When we talk about the freebies, it would suggest that, and thus I conclude, we should consider that, in agreement with the affected, independent journalists or journalists who carry out their own profession are also trying to bring themselves into this system. This is a typical work of art. They may, of course, be in some contractual relationship, but this would certainly mean in the segment of these media some greater social security and also some greater autonomy, higher-a-vis those who are customers of their products. In short, we are on track to do something good for those in our society who are hyper-organised in companies and public institutions, to do something good for those who are trying to carry out cultural, research and journalistic activities alone, and here the understanding of the Ministry is the basis for further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. My friend Visjak is no longer available. My friend Grošelj is also very small. My friend Kangler's gone. My friend Kavtičnik is away. Comrade Brenčič too, Comrade Kremjar. My friend Pucko has the floor. I don't think anyone's here before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives. In my performance, I will limit myself to three questions, or three solutions, which in my opinion cannot contribute to the country's kindness, and even less so, the financial effects of the proposed solutions are questionable. In my opinion, they are negligible at the budget of the state, which is at the level of 1600 billion per year. The first is Article 113 or facilitate investment in the solution of the housing problem of the taxpayer. Years ago, we introduced a national housing scheme involving close to 100,000 citizens and citizens, counting that once in the future they will be able to implement a three-percent investment facility to buy an apartment or build an apartment house. Now that this scheme has expired, they are expected to reduce this possibility of granting relief for a third. I believe that this is absolutely unacceptable and that it is necessary to maintain this relief at a level of three per cent in the future or until the second reading, even if any other relief provided for in this Article is to be extended to two per cent relief. Another issue that I think is that, given the available data or presented, where the effect is the same as literally zero, so-called subsidies in agriculture. I estimate that the impact, as presented or presented by the Ministry of Finance, at an annual level of 400 million tolars, is entirely negligible, especially in the fact that this income would be collected only from that handful or that few layers of this population or from the agricultural taxpayers who can literally withstand European competition in this sector. If this need is 400 million from this part or from subsidies in agriculture, I propose to charge some manipulative costs in the amount of 20 billion that are to be paid for this purpose. So, 2% of this is 400 million, and it's a hand-to-hand solution. In this sense, there would not be an eclectic distinction between those who would also pay - there are fewer of these, perhaps up to 100 - 50% of the income on these subsidies, and among those who are very large, who would not pay anything. Such a distinction between people who are engaged and who try to live with the same activity cannot be allowed. And the third question that I would like to point out, or think that the perfect shot is empty, is the equalization of the incomes of athletes and others who are active in the field of sport, which are supposed to be seen as income from employment or income from activities. This, on the one hand, means the force of these people, these very important promoters of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, all over the world, to seek out other, sometimes even illegal routes, and on the other hand, in my opinion, in a period of time the social amateur sphere in sport. Without that foundation, there will be fewer stars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Comrade Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I will also stop myself in the area that deals with either reliefs or solutions in the field of copyright fees, which are very specific and detailed in the case of the law being submitted. Even before I touch on the author's fees or such solutions, I will say that, of course, I support the way in which this issue is resolved in general, as proposed by law, especially because I think it actually relieves the socially weaker layers and distributes tax burdens more evenly and introduces European comparable institutions and standards. As I say, I will return to the question of self-employed cultural creators and to the solutions offered by the law in question. In Slovenia we have currently - and perhaps in a few months it will be different - recorded about 2,200 independent cultural creators once, today self-employed. The new regulation extends their activity to those professions that are deficient, and is also extended to those professions that are new and in this sense should be welcomed, as has been the case in the area of the most recent regulation of self-employed people in culture. This is mostly half of all employees in other activities, in short, regularly employed in Slovenia, and means that it represents an important segment of creators. The legal solution is that by 15% the tax base is reduced by income from activities for self-employed people in culture if their income does not exceed a certain amount annually. Personally, I think that the sum is undervalued, and certainly should have been confirmed, unless we should have reconsidered that we should not either raise 15% to a higher sum, or increase the price itself, as mentioned here with 3,900,000 tolars. To mention, in calculating the contributions paid by the State to some, of course, not all, but to some cultural creators for social, health, disability, pension and other insurance, this price is now over 4 million and a half tolar, which is, of course, normal at the time of growth. I would stop at another solution, which was very much debated and fortunately corrected in the preparation of the law itself and talks and touches on the question of percentages of the standard costs or discharges in copyright fees. It is again for self-employed people in culture who have some relief in applying reduced standard costs from once 40% now to 10%. I think that even in this article, I think it is necessary to reconsider whether this percentage is appropriate or not, because the very word self-employed in culture, however, means that it is those people who are employers themselves, who are also investing in material costs themselves, in purchasing their production costs, not only clay, bronze, colors, computers, but also the material costs, the equipment needed for their work, the maintenance of their primary and material and other costs, the spaces, the short cut of all the costs that public sector cultural workers or other sectors receive in their own place, travel, education and so on. In short, it's the spectrum that's already provided elsewhere in the workplace, while there's no self-employed. And the question is, if this current leave is said to be 10%, as far as it was agreed during the drafting of the law, because at the beginning it was not at all, it is sufficient, because if it is not, it means that the services, or the supply market, will be significantly undermined. Higher prices will be displayed in this respect. I do not think it would be appropriate to take into account such reliefs, at least the two I have just mentioned, or on which I would like to focus, only in the case of cultural workers. Years ago, there were many reflections in the direction that those people involved in journalism on the so-called free market, and years ago there were not as many as today, would also have been granted certain reliefs or reliefs, which, when they were in the grave and in a very competitive market, would have been affected. These are journalists who sometimes have given up on opportunities offered years ago that, like cultural workers, those who are registered and who are eligible for certain conditions may receive certain reliefs. In particular, it was proposed at the time that they could receive compensation for the payment of social, health, pension and disability insurance. In the sense that their ego is affected, if that means that they are in some way paid by the state, that the state somehow pays them and possibly requires more of them, they have given up. But time has brought forth completely different requirements. Time has put journalists at a much greater disadvantage, at a much more uncertain and much more closed areas of work. Less and less job vacancies, fewer and fewer journalists are employed, more and more competitiveness is created in them, which is not even based on quality, but too often on regret of something else. Currently, about 200 journalists are registered or registered, inside, I think not too much of the 500 who are registered. And if tax legislation were to adapt to certain facilitations in this area, I think that the objective for which the opposition has repeatedly warmed up in terms of plurality, heterogeneousness and the highest possible quality of journalistic work would be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. I understand you'd like the word of a fellow Kremjar? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Azhish? [[Not at all.]] Then, colleague Anderlich, please, you have the last word, then the government will want a word, too? Not even Comrade Anderlich. So he's got the word "minister." You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much. After all this discussion, I would like to say again and show you this broader context in which we are moving through tax reform. The basis, as I have pointed out many times, is that we have too much work and too little capital burden compared to our competitors. You must be aware that we have very clear tax competition, not only in the existing Member States, but mainly in the ten member states that join. Everywhere, they try to reduce tax rates and tax reliefs. Thus, if we want to attract capital, keep jobs, be competitive, then it is simply the least that we can do right now to make an effective tax rate, profit tax, a former corporate income tax, raise from 12.8 to approximately 17.8, depending on how it counts, to 18% and we are still competitive. In three years, we get 35 billion tolars, and then we use that 35 billion tolars to reduce the workload of income. So the space we have at our disposal is 35 billion tolars. In terms of the competitiveness of the economy, this space is to be filled most fully in the way that general facilitation is raised. And that's what we did. In fact, this is the most equitable way to relieve active income, especially work. When I listened to this debate, if I went to look at the words of how many times has been said, the most often spoken was the word of relief, and of course very special relief. If I were to count the value of these wishes for additional reliefs, I do not know now, but I am sure that more than once again the 35 billion we already have in this proposal. There's no place like this. That's the first thing. Another thing that's very important. Forgive me, but I have read any tax literature, it is very clear everywhere: the negative effects of reliefs and in particular the special benefits are significantly greater than the positive effects. And all of these special requirements, which have been expressed today, according to theory and empires, are very negative. This is how you need to be aware. Special relief for journalists, for culturers, for athletes, for farmers, for children and so on. In theory, there is no support for this; although it can be very, I would say, from the point of view of the performance interesting to the audience, but the economic impact, this positive one, is not, but if it is already weighed down with its simultaneous negative effect. That is how it will have to be brought into this framework. If we do not get into this framework, this means an additional deficit in the budget, which we cannot afford because, as you know, we have adopted an ERM2 entry programme and a euro where the European Union is simply limiting us with deficits. And when we fix or almost fix the foreign exchange rate, we will need a deficit space so that fiscal policy can neutralize the shocks that will certainly arise. Shocks happen all the time. Now, let's say we have a shock in the oil field, there could be another shock in the recession, here or elsewhere, and suddenly the deficit could grow very much. It can happen that we will go over the Maastricht criteria and, of course, there is no room. I remind you of this, although it is an election year, I understand this, but at the same time we are entering the European Union, at the same time we are going to ERM2 and the euro and we will need to be very, very rational here. I ask you to take this into account in these discussions, which will continue on the committee and then in the second reading of the law. The next thing's a relief. Today you've highlighted children's relief most of the time. I told you that for children - but this was just this selected segment of expenditure - we give you 114 billion per year from the budget. And we've increased this tremendously in recent years. So this encouragement, essentially demographic encouragement, what we are most concerned about is that, of course, the demographic number of children is not large enough to be renewed over the longer term and, of course, the problem of pension, etc., of course, we give very much money to the demographic field and increase it. At the same time, as I have already said, with the reliefs ordered by the Constitutional Court for 93.1% of all those who have children, we are improving the situation. We're only getting 0.7% worse. In doing so, I must say that, in economic terms, I have not seen a single study showing a positive link between the extent of the benefits and, on the other hand, the demographic trends that would be the result of these reliefs. This is said to be about giving something to someone and we need to be aware of what you've been up for today, giving it to those who are the richest and will be able to benefit from it at all. It is said that there is no economic logic in the back, and of course you will have a final decision. Regarding the reduction of 3% relief for different purposes to 2% overall relief, I would say, of course we can stay at 3%, but then it will take 17% relief, we went from 11% to 17% general relief, to reduce. Of course, it is a political decision at the end, and it brings a slightly different view of what is being financed from the country and what is also financed from non-governmental institutions. The area of agriculture, the area of capital gains; we have already had all these discussions and we have tried to find the most optimal possible solutions. In agriculture, in my opinion, we found them at the same time as the amendments to the Cadastrian Income Act, which will reflect more realistically the extent of farmers' income and in this way also have a relatively simple basis for taxation together with subsidies. It's about the capital gains. When I listened to your discussion, she went in a very different direction. One thought that capital gains needed to be taxed even more, the other thought that they should be taxed, the third thought that some would be taxed, some would not. We have tried to find an intermediate path where capital gains up to three years are taxed, not after three years, but if the dominant share is 10%, but it is taxed. From this point of view, as other countries also have this, let's say Germany, Belgium and Austria, and we've been looking for the comparison of where they would be, what they have and what experience they have in this area. And that was a solution that we thought made sense. Regarding interest, I agree with you, interest is a very delicate area. We've done a lot of catching up and repairing and coordination, with 150,000 we've gone to 300,000, and then we've gone to a transitional period, and we've slowly increased just those shares that go into the tax base. In our view, the calculation is now such that it gives a competitive advantage to loading in Slovenia, compared to loading, for example in Austria. However, I must say that we can check this together again with you, with Banka Slovenije, with bankers and see if we are actually right or wrong. In our opinion, so far, it's okay. About other facilities, culturers, athletes, journalists, students and so on. I would have warned you. Any relief you give, someone has to pay for it. We can pay it by reducing the overall relief from 17% or special relief. In this adoption of the income package, I think it will be no different than in the budget, when one facilitates such value, on the other hand, it must be followed by a reduction of another relief. Because otherwise the deficit will be higher and we can't afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mr. Minister, with your debate, I will now conclude this item on the agenda. On the proposal to decide whether or not the law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote in accordance with the timetable today in the context of the vote starting at 19.40. By the way, let me warn you that after today's votes, we still have a majority vote. Until then, I'm going to break this agenda. Until the next agenda item, I give a few minutes' rest, three minutes. At 2.50 we will move to 3rd, this is to the first reading of the proposal for a law on conditional access to protected electronic services. So for a few minutes, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	I invite colleagues and colleagues to take their seats, we will continue our work in the framework of the meeting. We're at 3. Agenda items - First of all, the proposal for a law on conditional access to protected electronic services. We have the Secretary of State with a co-worker. We will first hear a proposal or a supplementary explanation of the bill by the Secretary of State. As you know, a group of ten Members, with a first-signed colleague Janša, requested that the national assembly conduct a general hearing. We will now do so after your introduction, Mr Secretary of State, then the representatives of the groups of Members will be given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to present briefly the law on conditional access to protected electronic services. Therefore, this law regulates the rights and protection of providers of protected electronic services which provide these electronic payment services with conditional access. Simply put, there is some mechanism, some device that otherwise prevents access to these contents. We also refer to this law as a kind of anti-piracy law because it refers to measures that can be taken when a person in any way is violently or unauthorizedly able to access these contents. Of course, Article 2 of this Act explains the meaning of terms and defines only protected electronic services. In doing so, it is important to stress that the law is limited not only to television and broadcasting, as we have been trained, but also to interference with services of the information society, such as services normally obtained via the Internet or digital devices connected to the Internet or the Internet. Concepts such as, say, a service provider are defined, of course, a natural or legal person providing services from the previous point, and, however, what conditional access is, is a considerable technical definition, and what is a conditional access device. Here I would particularly like to point out that it is not necessarily a physical device, but it can also be software. However, a prohibited device is any device, i.e. a counterfeit device or a fixed device or software that allows unauthorised access to protected content. The law also prohibits the manufacture of such devices, import, distribution, sale. These devices shall not be allowed to be installed or replaced, maintained in any way. The third point of Article 4 also provides that the advertising of such devices, which would allow access, shall also be prohibited. Subsequent Articles shall govern inspection and administrative measures and types of actions for infringement of the rights of protection by conditional access. At the outset, I forgot to mention that it is essentially about harmonising Directive 1998/84 and that we are filling a certain legal void that has been in this area so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for further explaining the bill. We will now hear, if they so wish, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A colleague of mags. Drobnik, New Slovenia's parliamentary group, behind you, colleague Sušnik and so on. Please, my fellow mags first. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not, in principle, oppose this law in New Slovenia. In fact, it is about harmonising our rules, our situation with the legal order of the European Union. This is not a key reason to adapt to the European Union, this law must be adopted because the government in the Slovenian space is a particular mess, as regards electronic information services. In this regard, I also raised a question yesterday for the Minister of Information Society, in the field of broadcasting. It is a matter of cases where unauthorised technical devices are used to provide protected services and, as government representatives say, anything related to the marketing of these services, profit-generating through the misuse of such devices or interference with electronic services, in information technology services. The law is not clearly specified or, in our view, is not properly used to punish threatening violations. An attempt to commit an offence may be punished, not a threatening one, which would possibly indicate that a violation would occur; what is not appropriate in the legal system. This law would obviously have to be adopted substantially earlier, because of our domestic situation, where it is a wild intellectual property hunt, which we must protect, if we are to establish a proper market order in this area as well, and to prevent various earnings at the expense of infringement, at the expense of the theft of intellectual services. This framework may include the misuse of frequencies in specific areas, the broadcasting and misuse of temporary frequencies in Slovenia, and the suspension of public calls for these frequencies. In Novi Slovenije we also wonder what the government will do and what the government will do in the case of imports of devices for unauthorised wiretaps. She hasn't responded to that before, has she? So we heard that these devices were imported, but we don't know how to use them. The Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services may control systems which are state-owned and which may be used under certain conditions by the State authorities if the court so requires. However, it is not clear what is happening in this gray field, and this is a serious question. The Directive requires harmonisation of national rules. We have been thinking in New Slovenia that this legal matter would be included in the existing legal matter that we have or have in these regulations. The government has decided to make a special provision. Nor do we intend to oppose this because we are particularly interested in how we will establish a real market for intellectual services, prevent different kinds of piracy and abuse of intellectual property, and ensure legal certainty by amending that part of the regulation that I have already mentioned. It is likely to be a little more orderly also through greater digitisation of services or signals, which are significantly easier to limit or control. Another area should also be highlighted in this context, namely, that, by means of coding and protection of intellectual property, unauthorised distribution of various shows, including those illegal ones, is also limited. We also had a special interpretation of this in the National Assembly concerning the hard pornographic content, which in Slovenia also found a place or place in public space unauthorized and then those whom we thought would harm them, and this is indisputable because we are also bound by international provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Sušnik, present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear assembly, allow me to present to you the view of the Slovenian Democratic Party on a proposal for a law on conditional access to protected electronic services. We have not overlooked the fact that in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the admission of such services, or unwillingly overlooked the protection of the users of such services, the so-called information society, which in our view will continue to be without adequate protection. According to the proposaler, the law should also regulate anti-trafficking measures and the use of unauthorised devices to prevent unauthorized persons from accessing the protected services of both television and radio broadcasting and information society services. The legislative proposal should also specify the scope of the protected services in the area whose use is prohibited and has an ambition to regulate the institutions of legal protection of protected services against use and abuse by means of such prohibited devices. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the proposaler's intention to regulate the legal protection of such protected encrypted services on our market as the future part of the European market, while at the same time pointing out that users of encrypted digital services, the so-called information society, are not sufficiently protected from intrusions into electronic mail systems and from listening to unauthorised individuals on both fixed and mobile phones. We express some surprise or regret that this marriage proposal does not create or solve the problem of these intrusions into information systems and wild listening to conversations in fixed and mobile telephony. That this is happening is also confirmed by the generally well-known fact that in the last period, I think it is five individuals, buying or importing expensive and complex wiretap devices. This law does not provide an answer as to the holders of such and similar devices to prevent the use of such devices in terms of the protection of the users of such information services. With regard to this fact, a number of questions have been raised that, unfortunately, this marriage proposal, as I have already said or other laws cited by the applicant, do not provide a satisfactory answer or resolve the pressing issues involved. The law protects and regulates exclusively the rights and protection of providers of protected electronic services and does not regulate the protection of users of electronic devices who are all too often exposed to unauthorised intrusions and wiretaps. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I express my expectation that the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will further address the law in a comprehensive manner and also protect the users of electronic information society services. We expect solutions that will effectively protect users of electronic services of all forms from unauthorized and unwanted interventions in the nature of these services. Solutions must protect us from intrusions into our electronic mail and from listening, to which we are also undoubtedly exposed because of the transport of electronic listening devices and the use of these devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Sušnik. I don't see a fellow Webber in the hall. In this way, I will give my word to my colleague Brenčič, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice to meet you all. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the proposal of this law as a logical obligation and, of course, the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to bring our legal order into line with the legal order of the European Union. This is our obligation under the Association Agreement and we are obliged to do so by 1 May. But it is also good that this area is regulated by a situation that is only present in our internal market, even in the internal market. The proposal of this Act prevents both production, installation and the key use of unauthorised devices which would allow access to protected services, broadcasting and so on to protected information society services. This creates the legal protection of suppliers, unfortunately, slightly too little protection, the legal protection of the users of these services. More or less the content of the bill's proposal is based on the European Directive on the Legal Protection of Services, which the provider has the right to protect with conditional access, and in this sense it would be difficult to add something to the bill, something to challenge or otherwise write down. The provision of legal protection for tenderers is undoubtedly necessary, as this is the only way to expect the economic effects of this activity. Slovenia's membership in the European Union means a new level of integration of the Slovenian economy into the European internal market. Ensuring legal protection against the marketing of unauthorised devices is important not only for achieving economic effects in the Slovenian space, but also for the wider European space. Uncoordinated internal legislation in this area would certainly hinder the free movement of these services. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft law in terms of a good basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. My friend Kavečič. Mr Kavčič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Your Honor! With regard to the proposal for a conditional access law to protected electronic services, it is worth stressing that digital technologies also increase the scope of the potential choice for users in the field of broadcasting and information society. Therefore, logically, on the other hand, it highlights the need for an instrument called conditional access. This instrument protects the economic interests of the providers of these services. Well, the practice so far has shown that it is necessary, in sufficient detail and on the other hand, to regulate effectively enough the possibility of using devices for free access to these services. In particular, it is a legal basis for preventing the use of unauthorised devices. This bill aligns Slovenia's legal order with the acquis of the European Union, and it is specifically about the transposition of the provisions of Directive 1998/84. That is why we will support this bill in the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Comrade Kavčič. He's a colleague of grandkids. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. On behalf of the SNS, a colleague of Barovic will have a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the parliamentary group, we support the transposition of the provisions of the Directive, which the EU Member States undertake to provide legal protection of services based on or including conditional access to Slovenia's legal order, in the same way as in other draft laws adopted in the past in the context of the adaptation of the Slovenian acquis to European law. The adoption of the law will lay down specific measures against unauthorised devices that allow for unauthorised access to protected television and radio broadcasting services and information society services, as well as the legal protection of providers providing such services. In addition to many positive effects, these measures will certainly be welcomed by our estimates to the copyright owners of electronic services, as they will be much more protected on the basis of clearly defined legislation than they are now. Various pirate access to the reception of encrypted television signals will be legally prohibited, which is likely to distort their range of programmes in smaller cable television systems, but on the other hand we can assume that distributors who are already or will also be more competitive after the adoption of the law. This will make their services more accessible to people. Since we can expect many to be in breach of legislation, we are already warning the legislator and the government that it is very important that the government, in addition to introducing the law into the National Assembly, also provides a quality inspection and supervisory service, which will implement and supervise the provisions of the law that we are adopting today. And we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	As it is said, colleague Barovic will now conclude a presentation of the positions on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and then we will move on to a general debate, which will not be long given the expected speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a conditional access law, the important word "conditional access", follows the European Directive on protected electronic services. It is clear that it must be accepted until the entry into the European Union of Slovenia, which is supposed to be, 1.5. And I don't know, maybe later when the government representatives have a word yet, they'll tell me that, contrary to some other laws that are substantively very important and run by necessity, this law, this bill, this bill, which is not irrelevant, but of course has perhaps a smaller weight against others, following a regular procedure. This is just a question that we have raised in the Slovenian National Party, we have this right, too. The aim of the directive, which, of course, this proposal for a law, is to protect and exercise freedom of expression. Nor have I heard this from, or heard from, the other interlocutors, which we all think is very important in the Slovenian National Party. The bill is intended to regulate measures against illicit devices that allow for many things, of which few words have already been said today. Thus, all those still gathered in this Hall of the National Assembly know that today, in a broadcasting, television, computer, or information system, so - called hackers do whatever they want. And we know that the data will be available to anyone at any time, regardless of whether we adopt ten or one law. Why am I saying this? In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the substance, however possible for the preparers, is missing from Article 8 of the criminal provisions. Why am I saying this? See, if you, your fellow Members and colleagues - some, believe that you - have also read the piece that speaks to the comparative regulation, we can peacefully conclude that this proposal for a law at least in this part that speaks of criminal provisions is a great compromise between the regulation of this system in Austria and Germany. Why? If we look at the amount of punishment that is envisaged and the manner of punishment, the Slovenian proposal, at least in this provision, I reiterate, in criminal provisions, is the same. Here I would suggest to the government that it might compare Ireland, Luxembourg or Great Britain, because all these countries, apart from the fines, also provide for a prison sentence. This is because access to such devices, "smuggling" with such devices or the legalization of such devices under another name will be met; the law itself prohibits this, but as we know how all people are in this country will also be here. It is also good that the state penalizes someone in such an act, that is to say, a crime, is right. However, in my view and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it would be good to also impose a prison sentence in Article 8 of the criminal provisions. This would, of course, exacerbate at least those who have a purpose and will also have and maintain it, trafficking in such devices and their exploitation for illegal purposes. Such people might be encouraged by a little more reflection, a little more, let's say in connotations, fear and a little more protection against all the actions that respected colleagues have spoken of before me. It is right, once again, that the law must be adopted in accordance with the directive, and it is right that we have such a law. Above all, I want and ask the Government and, of course, respected colleagues and colleagues, to consider criminal provisions in the re-examination and to achieve at least one concrete and precise objective in this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Act on conditional access to protected electronic services because we are also aware of our responsibilities to harmonise legislation with the European Union, and once again with the desire and proposals to harmonise at least in those areas that will further secure the provisions of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We have a good half an hour to discuss. First of all, my friend Sok has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! What really surprises me, when I read this law and listen to these presentations by the groups of Members, is that we had to wait six years for such an important regulation of one area that we know what it means in practice and that we are applying it just before the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. So, obviously, I am imagining that this is a decision and that some kind of anarchy in this area was appropriate to the applicants, because it is obvious that the European Directive was adopted six years ago, and we are now dealing with it later. And it's a shame that you haven't arranged this before, because, of course, this technique has evolved extremely rapidly in this time of year, especially over the last few years. What I would like to draw attention to about this law, which has a total of ten articles, I would like to suggest to you that - before I have heard that there will be some abuse in practice, and this is an area of course very attractive and interesting. These criminal sanctions are here, I would say, so stimulating that they actually appeal to people. The penalty for a natural person dealing with this is, after all, 100,000 tolars. We have enacted certain agricultural laws here, for example, where penalties were also imposed on natural persons there of 3 million for much minor errors. 100,000 tolars seems to me to be far too small a sentence, if you really want to settle this matter and prevent it, because if that's the case, then of course a lot of people will risk the 100,000 if they accidentally catch it and work happily on all these things, as they probably do now. And the penalty for a legal person a million dollars for a misdemeanor in this area is, I think, far too small. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Article 5 which also speaks of inspection in this area and of measures in this regard should be made slightly clearer. I think that the market inspector should have the opportunity to assess when he will call the representatives of the Ministry of Information Society for professional assistance, but not to write down here that in more difficult cases. If you write the law in this way, of course, it will always be possible to determine which case is more difficult and which is not demanding. So, I suggest that you correct these articles to give the inspection the right powers in this law, so that it can also regulate this matter properly in practice, and that the violators properly punished if we really want the law to prevent what is happening today from being done, to listen to it, to hack into electronic systems, and that in fact probably one group of our fellow citizens is doing well and cheerfully in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Buddy Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the government! Dear colleagues! I'm going to be very brief, because there was something that I was going to say myself, I've already said. But in this short law, in fact, there are only two things that bother me in some way. One is Article 6 if I can speak directly about the article, although we are in general discussion When it comes to the fact that a service provider can alternatively demand an award against compensation that does not exceed the cost of production instead of destroying or disqualifying prohibited devices. I just don't get it, because I'm explaining to myself, "Someone makes a windshield to break in, but when they get it, they have to pay him for those glasses." So it's kind of a weird formulation in marriage. The second question is when a speech is made that the court may issue a provisional decision without hearing the counterparty, if there is a legitimate fear that insurance will not be possible later. Of course I want to know what kind of insurance this is. Last but not least, it was already mentioned in the debate that it might be good to protect not only 'provider' but also users of protected electronic services, and then this dictatorship does not seem appropriate to me somehow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The government will get the floor if it wants to end the debate. My colleague's not in the hall. Does Comrade Mamić want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you so much for what I have left, this bad minute. Mostly more or less, colleagues have already said, alerted to the problem. It seems strange to me just when a law is being drafted so that the applicant does not go a little deeper into the matter and then does not write constructively. For example, as it is said, marriage is needed, we need it, but it will be very difficult to do as it is written. We are actually afraid of this, so it would be good, as long as it is time for this matter to improve a little bit, especially as Mr Sok said for Article 5, to be seriously corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Good. The law is now in first and foremost consideration, and there are opportunities for that. The government wishes to provide some clarification or other information if I do not conclude the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A few very brief words, ladies and gentlemen, I might give you a replica or an explanation. The first is about the delay and, of course, the protection of copyright. In fact, in the harmonisation process, at the outset, the belief that such matters were governed by sufficient copyright law has prevailed. However, in its considerations of harmonisation legislation, the Commission later found that this was not the case and that a specific law was needed. This is also one of the reasons that, according to our belief, the law comes a little later than it should have been. The second point to which I would like to add an explanation is the abuse of frequencies, imports of such devices and of the grey field which originates in this regard. Thus, the related laws governing this area and at the same time protecting the user himself are, of course, a criminal code, an electronic communications law and a consumer protection law. In addition, in accordance with the recently adopted e-signature and e-commerce law, we are also introducing an instrument for the so-called Internet incident data transmission centre. And we expect that this centre will, of course, contribute very significantly to the protection of the user himself, which, of course, is not the subject of this law. With regard to the offences themselves and the amounts mentioned above, I would only stress that the allegations are somehow in line with the law on offences and that, of course, it is still possible to introduce possible modifications here. And the final explanation I would like to make is, of course, the inspection bodies themselves. The statement, which is such as, therefore, given the complexity of the matter, we assume that it is sufficient in this case, because the inspectors themselves can determine when the professional matter, i.e. in that theoretical work, is not part of it, and to this end we have introduced an assistance institute by the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. After you perform, I will conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the schedule of meetings, decide tonight in the framework of the votes, starting at 19:00 and 40 minutes. I interrupt this agenda item until the beginning of 4. It will be a second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the penal code. The bill will be presented by Minister Bizjak, then by the chairman of the committee and representatives of the parliamentary groups, and then we will also consider the amendments tabled for the text of the bill. By the beginning of the debate at 3 p.m. and 55 p.m., I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	I salute the Minister of Justice with a co-worker! We're moving to four. POINT OF THE DAY - SECOND DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE PENALTARY LEGISLATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the text first to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. My word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Ivan Biszak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the penal code. There have been many debates on these changes, and in part in this National Assembly, when you addressed the proposal already put forward on this subject, but of course there have been many debates in the professional public as well. Once the proposal had been tabled, the legal profession had also made a very clear statement on the proposed amendments, which had in particular pointed out that there would be no hurrying with changes in all areas where we had foreseen that these changes would need to be considered as thoroughly as possible. While it does not argue that such a consideration would not have been possible, so far, the consideration of the law in the national assembly, at the home labour body, has produced a complementary proposal for a law that does not contain some of the changes previously envisaged, not all of which we have jointly assessed that is not necessarily necessary at this time. Otherwise, the proposal of this law primarily aligns our criminal code with the series of ten international legal acts binding on the Republic of Slovenia, either as part of the acquis of the European Union or as part of such a nature that Slovenia must accede to these acts. Let me only mention some changes concerning international legal acts. Above all, we are laying the foundations for ratifying the United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime with both additional protocols, namely the so-called Palermo Convention. In this regard, the proposed definition of a criminal association is proposed in the law, and the possibilities for limiting the criminal offence to a criminal offence are introduced in such a context, i.e. within the framework of the association which cooperates with the judicial authorities. Amendments to the definition of a criminal offence of a prohibited cross-border crossing and a new offence of trafficking in human beings are envisaged. A number of changes also relate to coordination with the provisions of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, in particular the chapter on crimes against international law and humanity; we are also re-adding the offence of retaliation to an official for acts committed in criminal proceedings. Some amendments refer to the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, where, of course, Slovenia is rightly expected to contribute to the suppression of this scourge, which is growing in the European area. Some provisions also concern the protection of the legal interests of the European Union, but we also take into account the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime. This is just a few international legal acts on which we have put in place the necessary harmonisation. Of the other changes that have arisen, in particular due to previous experience in the application of the Penal Code, let me mention, for example, that the law now clearly sets out the criteria or circumstances to be taken into account by the Committee on Conditional Exemptions. That the period of limitation of prosecution of crimes against sexual inviolability was amended. In particular, on the basis of the debate in this National Assembly, there are harmonised and more stringent penalties for certain crimes against sexual inviolability, in order to clarify more precisely the provisions relating to so-called corruption offences, as well as the protection of intellectual property. So I propose that you support the text of the draft law, as supplemented by the proposal for this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Vice-President Franz Kangler, who has been authorized by his mother's working body to present the report, is absent today, but we have a written report on the benches. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister with a co-worker, colleagues, fellow Members! We therefore have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to a criminal code or code that should specify what we cannot do or what is considered to be so socially rejected that it is necessary to incriminate, of course, in the assumption that people have not been able to internalise it in such a way that incrimination is not necessary at all. As the proposalr already mentions, most of the proposed amendments stem from or are linked to a number of international documents. At times, we seem to believe in the international documents of the Slovenian public blindly because the debates that have already taken place around this law were much more concerned with who is right, whether professional or political. It's like you might have looked critically at a document like that. It is true that ratified international instruments are legally binding on the signatory countries, but they often only commit themselves to the objective and are not designed to be directly usable, why they should otherwise be admitted to the internal legal order. However, one such international document is the Rome Statute, which is very welcome by the DeSUS Group of Members. We need to know that the Rome Statute is the highest achievement of international criminal law, and that countries have committed themselves to it voluntarily by contract and is by no means a unilateral legal act. The fundamental principles of the Rome Statute have matured for 50 years, and even today they are not incontrovertible, as you recall the discussions on the withdrawal of the principle of State sovereignty. However, the principles and provisions of the Rome Statute are acquisitions for all mankind, as we agree that genocide, crimes against humanity, war of crime and aggression are thus rejected by all nations. Some will disagree with us, but in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it would be possible to better regulate the provisions of the Rome Statute in a special law, because some of the provisions of this Statute are incompatible with existing criminal law, for example, the fact that, under the provisions of this Statute, it is possible to exceptionally allow the deprivation of liberty for life, which is incompatible with the concept of an existing criminal code, or the fact that the provisions of the Rome Statute apply to specific criminal offences, when implemented into our criminal law system, but all criminal offences are subject to all. In the current amendment, for example, to prevent evidence that is threatened with imprisonment for up to 3 years. What does that mean? For example, there is no question about so - called rich crime. In the DeSUS Group in the proposal, we see a tendency to increase the penalties and incrimination of certain acts which, in our view, do not fall within the competence of criminal law. We know that criminal law, regardless of how humane it is, is still a means of repression, of state repression, should therefore be applied in cases where the company does not find other measures, which does not mean that these other measures can be achievable, contrary. The criminal justice system is probably the most appropriate in terms of the speed of action. Thus, in our view, the incrimination around which the Committee has also expressed the highest number of words: non-payment of subsistence. We wonder if it's for non-payment of subsistence. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The best penalty for imprisonment from one or up to three years is the one that is legally required to survive. [[...]] In fact, as we know, the obligation to survive is usually imposed on one of the parents after the divorce of the spouses, but this is not the only example of compulsory survival. In the DeSUS Group, despite some comments, we will support the bill and, of course, the Committee's amendments. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Criminal Law, which has been in force since 1.1.1995 and has been amended since 1999, has remained uncoordinated in order to harmonise material criminal legislation with the legal order of the European Union, in particular in areas relating to the emergence of international criminal associations, international terrorism, corruption, crime, crime, crimes against humanity, crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression, the suppression of terrorist financing, all forms of racial discrimination, child rights, child prostitution and child pornography, child rights as regards participation in armed conflicts, trafficking in information and market manipulation, and so on. All these phenomena are becoming more and more numerous, more extensive and more developed. That is why new multilateral, international instruments, which our country has already signed or ratified, have been adopted in the Organization of United Nations, in the Council of Europe and at various international conferences, but have not yet transposed into our legal order. There have been considerable debates, as well as attacks, including by the profession, with changes and additions. The treatment of the Nacional Committee, which was initially postponed with a view to obtaining further interpretations, in particular by the Department of Criminal Sciences, has shown that there is still a great deal of confusion. Despite the invitation, no eminent legal experts were present to defend their proposals. On the other hand, it was an opportunity for more. More than once, the policy has proved to be in favour of increasing the penalties for certain crimes. We can recall several attempts in the National Assembly to increase penalties in certain areas and extend limitation periods. Especially for those crimes committed in the family behind the walls of the house. The issue of who dictates changes to the penal code was in the air all the time on the committee. Is adapting to the European Union the main reason for the amendment? What are the real changes and additions, those proposed by the government or those proposed by eminent legal experts? Who's the expert? A total of 44 additions were tabled in the 67 articles, which were amended and supplemented. However, it shows that the basic proposal was not sufficiently prepared and that coordination at the Inter-Cathedral Conference was not sufficiently accurate and consistent. In our Group of Members, we believe that, in view of the areas that we need to reconcile with international documents, the proposal itself cannot be opposed and challenged, but it is necessary to give strong criticism to all those who, under the cap of the profession, cannot or cannot cooperate with one another in the search for the best solutions. All too often, we are witnessing such behavior that puts us in a difficult and unpleasant position for legislators. The laws we adopt are also appropriate. And these are usually bad and unfinished. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to review, amend and complete the entire area, in addition to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, and that such patchwork as we are witnessing does not bring the solutions that we urgently need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, co-worker, respectable! The current penal code was adopted in 1994 and amended in 1999. Given the pace of changes in other areas, there is a fact that this area has not been followed or has not experienced the necessary and also the expected changes. It means that we have maintained solutions for another time, even though at this time we have always found new and new infringements of legislation, especially standards. And despite the findings that we have no will or courage in legislation, including in the penal code of the gray zone or hole, in Slovenia the ruling majority has not found the will or courage to adopt such a penal code that would be appropriate to today's time and also to the spirit of today's day. It seems that our entry into the European Union is clearly not enough of a challenge, despite the desire and necessity, including the requirement for a uniform and harmonised regulation of issues of criminal law within the European Union. This is also proved by the changes ahead. Clearly, the flimsy changes presented by the proposer have also scared many, and this has probably also caused the creation of a inter-Cathedral conference, which has been defined before the proposal to amend the criminal code. The introduction in these opinions will tell us virtually everything about the view of this group of experts. I quote: "The common denominator of all the changes in criminal law so far, as well as the proposed amendment to criminal law, is to increase repression, restrict human rights and increase the powers of national and parastatal repressive authorities. Such a tendency is and is becoming increasingly controversial if we recognize that the rule of law and respect for human rights are also the primary criterion for the legitimacy of all legislative and practical measures to prevent crime after 9 September. There are also no reasons for this exclusive repressive general orientation of criminal law policy in data on crime movement in Slovenia. Therefore, the Inter-Cathedral Conference proposes to the National Assembly and the Government knowingly renounce such exclusive repression, targeting..." and so on. But they're signed, and I don't know if they're men or women, Sheligo, Bavcon, Bela, Korošec and so on. Look, there's a lot of talk about restricting human rights. But we can ask ourselves, whose rights. Or the perpetrators? Just like it's supposed to be. I can say that victims also have their rights and that they can also demand their human rights, but not just that we are looking out for the perpetrators and that we are becoming a state protecting the human rights of the perpetrators, not the victims, and we should be aware of that. And how clearly someone is disturbed or unaware of which professions to believe is the further reflection or conclusions and views of this conference, in which it is written, and if I just read one sentence: "We are only warning of the neutralising effect of the European on domestic criminal law and several framework decisions that will bind Slovenia after 1 May. Does it make sense to rush into KZ changes when it is clear that new changes will soon be needed? We can ask ourselves, ‘ People, where do we live? Do we not know what standards, what approaches they are dealing with in the society in which we are involved, in the European Union? As I recall, for at least three years we are working very intensively and in detail on where we are involved and what we need to harmonise. And here we hear some groups of experts, whether it makes sense, as if we don't know where we're going, as if we're going to fall for Mars. I would also like to quote a sentence that also says a lot: "Mechanical copying of such or other reports, some opinions and opinions that arise in Strasbourg and Brussels." Yes, people! And then it says, "...unless Slovenia will transfer the work of its sovereign powers in this area to Brussels." Yeah, well, that's probably what we're talking about! And we know exactly what powers we will transfer to Brussels, not all of them, but some of them. That's what they say. That's why we wouldn't do anything. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that changes to the KZ are necessary, but that they also have content, but not just cosmetic. We Slovenian Democrats have tabled an amendment to Article 1 which speaks of conjecture, on the pardon of punishment. We are proposing the original text of the proposaler, which is clear and must remain so. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'll be right with you. The amendment, which has changed the text into something vague and undefined and is subject to possible misinterpretations, needs to be amended.If our amendment to Article 1 is adopted, the SDS will also support these changes, otherwise we will distance ourselves from such content and from such thinking part of the profession, which is obviously very influential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The consideration of the proposal for amendments and the addition of the penal code was made under the impression of two conflicting views in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, the first position of the proposer, namely, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as the main reasons for the adoption of the law, cited the need to harmonise the criminal code with the eight conventions and the two optional protocols to the Convention and the Rome Statutes of the International Criminal Court, which are part of the European Union's legal order and therefore the other positions of the legal profession, at least part of it, from the academic circles. It's 14 lawyers from other inter-Cathedral conferences. This, however, did not deny the need for amendments to the penal code, but these should be the result of serious research, comparative studies, i.e. weighted and professionally justified, stressing several times the assessment of the increase in the repression and limitation of human rights and the violation of the fundamental constitutional principle that criminal legislation is within the sovereignty of Slovenia. This division also includes the opinion of the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, who supported the proposal of the law by ensuring compliance with international documents, correcting some of the shortcomings of the legal provisions found in the practice of the State Prosecutor's Office, and amending the descriptions and penalties prescribed for offences accordingly. Among the amendments proposed to Article 5 of the proposal were the most discussed at Article 21, which has been transformed from avoiding payment of maintenance into non-payment of maintenance. With this amendment and the correction of the working body, a basic offence is the non-payment of maintenance on condition that the perpetrator is able to fulfil his maintenance obligations. This protects children’s rights to a greater extent, as the amount of unpaid nutrients, according to Ostrzek, is expected to reach over 4 billion tolars. This will also reduce the pressure on the maintenance fund. In the proposal, when new crimes are proposed, more severe penalties are put at risk in the face of changed incriminations, which means transferring jurisdiction to district courts. In doing so, let me draw attention to the concerns of part of the profession that we have heard in the past that the more severe penalties at stake do not mean reducing crime. The question raised in this regard is in particular how these changes will affect the scope of judicial work in district and district courts and the related costs. Any changes to the scope of the work and the burdens of the judges will be resolved by redistribution within the harmonised budget of the courts and within harmonised obligations. For all of this, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amendment and addition of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party is not among us. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Roman Jakič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Dear Vice President! Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The free movement of labour capital and goods, international criminal associations, international terrorism, corruption demand a coordinated and uniform response to criminal law in all countries. This is why the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union have adopted a number of new international instruments since the last amendment of the Penal Code, which Slovenia has already ratified or signed, so it is also right that the commitments adopted are reflected in the national legislation governing this area. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we particularly welcome the fact that the government has followed our warnings and warnings to the public about the lack of regulation of the chapter, where crimes against sexual inviolability are defined. Violence and aggression are a phenomenon that society will always face. They will exist as long as there are humans. Unfortunately, violence is an increasingly common means of resolving disputes and problems. Such a trend can also be seen in our society, where we often witness violence, aggression, intolerance. Many individuals and individuals are increasingly involved in this pattern of behavior in their family life and in their sex relations. Therefore, to eliminate violence and reduce its consequences, the State must introduce a series of measures, including criminal legislation, one of the mechanisms available to it. Thus, the State declares, by placing a specific offence in the criminal system, that the act is considered to be extremely socially harmful or inappropriate and instructs it to prosecute it by means of a repressive apparatus and to determine the penalty to be imposed on the perpetrator. In the LDS, we have constantly pointed out inadequate criminal policy in this area. We have always advocated an increase in the prescribed penalties for crimes of sexual violence, as in these cases it is cruel interference with human integrity with irreparable consequences, including rape, paedophilia, sexual abuse of a weaker person, violation of sexual integrity, abuse of the position by teachers, priests, parents, etc. In doing so, we must point out that we have not advocated an increase in punishment in the "ad hoc" way, but we have advocated an increase in these penalties in a way that will take into account the systematicity of certain penalties for other crimes, with the knowledge that only an increase in punishment does not significantly contribute to reducing crime. It is said that the amendment of the Penal Code meets our expectations as it increases the lower and the upper limit of the prison sentence at risk for certain crimes and individual qualified forms. Secondly, in the case of individual offences, it prevents the imposition of conditional penalties in such a way that at least three years' imprisonment is at risk. At the parliamentary club, we are also pleased that the arguments of our three Members, Mrs Majnikova, Mrs Pavlinič Krebsov and Mrs Širca have come across fertile ground and have changed the first paragraph of Article 203 of the Penal Code, which sets out the offence of avoiding payment of maintenance. The proposed change as an essential element of a criminal offence no longer provides for the avoidance of payment of maintenance, but criminalizes or criminalizes only the non-payment of maintenance determined by an executive order, even though the perpetrator would be able to do so in terms of property or income. As a condition, the alleged dismissal of criminality is a prohibited consequence, namely that it is not possible to incriminate a person who is entitled to maintenance as a result of the serious abandonment of an act. In its consideration of the Committee, the LDS Group rejected some of the findings that the proposed solution was unfounded and inadmissible, as it was a criminalisation of a pure administrative or civil law relationship. We believe that the beneficiaries of maintenance are under severe hardship due to non-payment, as their survival is at risk. Given that most of the beneficiaries of children are children, I stress that the State must do everything in its power to protect the rights of only those, even though it must do so by means of repressive means. Since the amendment of the Penal Code contains these solutions, the LDS Group will also support the proposal of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party, presented by Mr Saša Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we expected a better, better law, in particular a law that would have some substantive, I stress, substantive changes, especially given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not only this Parliament, but the Slovenian public has been deceiving in the previous millennium how it will come with a new law, how it will resolve matters and how it will introduce, say, criminal policy and, on the other hand, a policy that will reflect individual violent acts. Of course, despite the Minister's words, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done so for this speaker. Today, in explanation, when they finally submit their proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the penal code, they say or do not tell why they are late, except for the statement of the 40 amendments. According to the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, the changes are affecting four areas. In view of the fact that some of you have touched all four of them before me, I will, on behalf of the Group of Members, first of all, at the discretion of the Government, be touched by changes which tend to impose more severe penalties for crimes against sexual inviolability, the victims of which are weak persons - children and persons in a subordinate position. This National Assembly in this mandate agreed with or has already met with this issue at the initiative of the National Party in the draft law which we have tabled and which we have therefore sought to subject to the penalties to the offences or the size and weight of the offence. You have agreed, by word of mouth, that it is shameful for the Republic of Slovenia to have our case law and, of course, Slovenian legislation in this area allowing that, if two people were intended to steal a third-party cell phone, they are punished for longer than a criminal rapist or a pedophile, but of course, it is not enough that you agreed to do so, that you rejected the content of the law and that the National Party's proposal, which dramatically increased the penalties, was rejected. The national party was, for example, partly naive in its quotations, when it expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take into account the debate presented in this National Assembly, in order to take into account the professional debate put forward outside Parliament and to take into account the public opinion. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is following, of course, a quasi-solution in the bill. Thus, in spite of the public controversy, despite the public requirements in its proposal for a criminal code, Article 181 does not touch at all, as does Article 19(1), which refers to sexual inviolability and which lays down penalties for a rape offence. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the existing situation in our country, provides for a penalty of six months to ten years for a rape offence. We proposed three to fifteen years in prison in the National Party during that period. In spite of the fact that, once again, the entire profession, except for the profession that came from the Slovenian prisons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took no note in this area. Furthermore, we think that it is a mockery of all rape victims, especially when it comes to the abuse of a weak person, of a government proposal that is essentially given in the criminal code, such as the current novelty, which increases from half a year to five years to one year to eight years. In the National Party, we have always advocated that when crimes involve such a tendency, that is, sexual inviolability, should be more important for adults or, of course, for the sexual abuse of a minor or a minor or even a minor who has different disorders, our society should or should be able to give the highest possible penalty. Of course, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has gone in this area in its constant approach, i.e. minimising penalties. Change only so much that changes are. Therefore, according to the National Party's assessment, we have not achieved public expectations and, of course, more importantly, we do not follow the height and gravity of such crimes. Nevertheless, we cannot afford not to support the proposal because of any increase [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's good to see you. [[...]] However, I would like to point out that at least I, as a bill-maker two years ago, and the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, are disappointed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has chosen such a measure and has joined in such a small increase in penalties. According to our assessment, it is a phenomenon in society that is growing, and this country should take a decisive step to change at least once and should not agree to the theory that the amount of punishment is not reflected in the changed number of rapes. That's not true. Your symbiosis tells you that if we lock someone up for 20 years, it won't be possible to do that for 20 years. Comrade Dušan Wolf, I know you agree with these things, as you have said several times. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Mr. Peche [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	but the position of the National Party is [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Please, if you finish [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	that there should be higher penalties. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. In the context of the second reading, we will turn to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 23.3.2004. We can see that the amendments are tabled under Articles 1, 6, 20 and 35. I am therefore putting to the debate first Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. About the 1st article you wanted, Mrs. Shirca? Here you go. I missed you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Article 1 is that article which discusses ways, how and in which cases penalties may be mitigated. The third supplementary paragraph shall also introduce options where minor penalties may be given to those who contribute to the prevention of the commission of crimes within criminal associations. The Committee has adopted such an supplement, which is substantially more specific, shorter and not so precise and taxive as to list the ways in which minor penalties may occur if the perpetrator of the offences is appreciated. I believe that the text, as adopted on the Committee, is much clearer and less binding in the third paragraph than the one already mentioned in the draft law at the outset. However, if we insist on the adoption of the proposed amendment, as proposed by the SDS Group of Members, there should certainly be an amendment, because throughout the text we have decided not to say organised, but merely a criminal association, which this text still brings. Undoubtedly, I think that the text, which is limited to the fact that if the perpetrator of a crime committed within a criminal association prevents the further execution of such acts, or if he discloses the information relevant to the investigation and proof of the crimes already committed, is significantly more transparent than the one that mentions certain cases when he can do so, as the SDS Amendment says. This is said to be the case if it is announced in due time or if it even reveals the organisation, which means that it lists some marginal, border situations that are normally regulated if it seeks to be clean, does not specify so precisely. I will therefore support the text which has been incorporated into the third paragraph of Article 1 of Article 42 already in force on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I wanted to take the floor in particular to point out that, in fact, as Ambassador Shirca has already said, in the event that this amendment was adopted, there would be a need for a harmonisation amendment, both as regards the word "organised" and as regards the 50th Article, where this cooperation is also defined. Otherwise, the proposer has no reason to oppose such a text, because it was also incorporated into the basic text that we have proposed and a second short sentence has been adopted on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. With respect to Article 50. We have also wanted to propose an amendment to this article, but we have received information that this can be done by the editorial agencies, so we have not invested it, otherwise we have had this in mind. But with regard to "organized" I agree. It was written here from the old law when we copied - so without "organised". Otherwise, we believe that this original article, which was submitted by the proposer, is much clearer. At the final stage we could also agree with this shorter, but after the experiences we have, feedback comes just because this thing is not defined, it is not written that way and that way, but it is somewhere in general, and then we haven't found each other. And then we don't know if that's it or not. That is why we think this original text is significantly better - it defines. We may let this go, but we can still fix it because we already have something. But in that short version, we have nothing, and it reminds us of events from last week or fourteen days ago when we wrote everything, and it's about that here. That "everything" is nothing. It is necessary to define this, this, this and this, that we can also forget something about it, but then it is easier to complement it than to have nothing. For this reason, we have re tabled this amendment because we believe it is less general and more specific and precise. Inzato for the "organised" that can still be fixed because this is the second treatment. We insist on such content. Maybe it's a little weird because we're just advocating a government proposal, but we think it's better in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. In fact, I was encouraged by the Minister's implementation of this debate. I think we have been discussing this article on the committee for quite some time. I can also agree with the Minister that the basic text contained in the amended bill and the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group follow the same purpose. However, the less maneuverable space for a court to decide whether or not the announcement would lead to cooperation with law enforcement authorities. And then, at least that's how I assess it, let the court assess what information, what information was the one that is important to investigate and prove that I have already done not to continue. Because if we accept this dictatorship, which I am conditionally accepting, I wonder, but what if someone announces only those who are not leading members, they are members of a criminal society. In this context, it is explicitly stressed that they are reported in due time or exposed to criminal offences, then to the organisation, leading members or association of the association with other associations or to the disclosure of information. We have witnessed many times in recent times, and we will also consider this meeting when we will later have to accept the interpretation of one article. Once again, the Committee has taken the view that in this case it is necessary to allow the Court of Justice to determine from the specific case whether the circumstances to ease the sentence are met and if it is necessary to decide why. However, if, of course, the SDS Group were prepared to agree and, given the position of the Ministry, if it so assesses, it could be so good at the end stage. The purpose is always the same. In this way, we want to increase the participation of those who have come to these groups in order to save, injure, and thus benefit society. So let's let ourselves be surprised by what we're going to agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Well, maybe two more sentences, why do we think this diction is better? The fact is that it is those who, of course, will be forgiven something because they will say something that is of course good. On the other hand, it is beautifully written here that these milder penalties will apply to the one who reveals the organisation, the leading members, or the links of the company, or the information relevant to the investigation. That is to say, if someone is going to announce a doorman in a group like this, I don't know if it's just enough to be considered a rite of passage and that we can forgive him. That's what they say. He's got to announce some big fish, that's one. Secondly, if the court finds that a "little fish" is also important, the information relevant to the investigation may also be found. Yeah. Now I'm going to say what seems important to me in general to the criminal code. As long as we have an approach in Slovenia to look for "holes in marriage", where we cannot find someone we cannot inform, who we cannot punish, where we cannot get to the bottom of the case, instead of doing what they are doing where they are looking, where they can " hang" so that they can specifically deal with this case, we can convict, we can reach the end - and then it will be significantly easier. We still have a strange approach from before, when we were looking for "holes" when we were writing the laws, we were looking at "holes" next to it. I think that when this thought prevails, we can find everything in such a short article, but for the time being, we are still where we are looking for the holes, how we do not solve a case, and how this does not concern us because it is not written down. And then we're always a little behind on at least one level, because we always get ahead of ourselves with something new, and we don't have it written down and normalized. But when we start to approach, we're going to look for where we can hang this case, and then it's going to be different. That's why we've also proposed this amendment back, and what I said before is that "little fish" is not the same -- that we could look at the data "for a little fish" and have someone for a scenic -- like a capitalist. That's why we think this article is good. However, at the final stage, well, even if we now accept our amendment, we still have an open article and we can still fix it in the third reading. That way, in any case, we have a solution to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you. I am not going to confirm the amendment because I think this reduced doctrine is significantly better, but it does have a defined crime committed within the criminal society, and it is necessary to prevent enforcement and so on, and to disclose what information is going on. What really bothered me in the original dictatorship was that part that referred to leading members or association with other associations. In fact, I was disturbed by the fact that someone, who is a leading member or even a leader, could benefit from the relief, so it seems to me that this matter is better, but it is not necessarily that disclosure of a leading member is so important when it comes to preventing an act. Sometimes it is more important to expose an operative who will commit an act to prevent evil than anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you. Last time I heard from him. So, what bothers us in the first place is that half of this "prevention" is the further execution of these acts - how can this be prevented physically? Let him stand there and say, "Boys, now you won't be "bixing." It's a bit of an awkward diction, and it's the widespread one that solves it. That's why our amendment is like this because we don't know how to stop someone from being a criminal association. [[The ad from the bench.]] That's the second part of it, or if he finds out. But the first part is -- I don't know, physically. We don't know how to imagine it, but the extended one solves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Vukko, which I invite to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The amendment is somehow a result of a debate that has already taken place on the committee itself. The proposed amendment essentially complements the existing Article 126 of the Penal Code, which defines the meaning of the terms used in this Code. The amendment is a broader definition of economic activity within the meaning of the Penal Code or for the purposes of this Code. It is a matter of amendment, provided that the possibility is in place for those carrying out activities of non-profit associations to carry out professions in health establishments or institutions or to engage in sport for payment, as well as for those carrying out such activities to supervise, manage or represent that those persons may be held liable for certain criminal offences typical of carrying out an economic activity. Allow me to state these crimes, as set out in Chapter 24 of the Penal Code. It is - here I would point out the offence of damage to creditors under Article 234, the offence of business fraud under Article 243a, the falsification or destruction of business documents under Article 240, the abuse of the situation of rights under Article 244, the misappropriation under Article 245, the unjustifiable acceptance of gifts under Article 247 and the unjustifiable giving of gifts under Article 248. The proposed amendment will therefore cover both the society on the one hand, not only sports, but also remain, as well as various foundations and the proposed provision, the addition was summarised by the Austrian, German and Swiss arrangements for the crime of abuse of confidence in the performance of the so-called broader economic activity. We believe that this is mainly due to the fact that certain activities of these non-profit associations can be classified or considered as economic activities for the purposes of the criminal code, due to the large financial resources to which they are intended. The forms of organisation of an increasing number of societies, their way of doing business, the management of substantial financial resources, all of which, in fact, has in some way aligned the functioning of these societies with that of ordinary companies. The proposed solution creates a legal situation in which it is clear that there are also worse irregularities in the non-profit sector. Here we can refer to the example of the Red Cross, the Maribor Student Organization, the fund for the construction of a pediatric clinic and more. In such cases, persons of these foundations will be subject to criminal proceedings, which is not possible today. The lack of such a solution has already caused many problems in Slovenian legal practice. At the same time, the proposed amendment will also remove the uncertainties regarding the handling of the suspicions of the above-mentioned crimes. For example, in public health, where the question still arises whether that activity can be defined as an economy or not. In the future, if we want to eliminate such non-profit-related inequities in the non-profit sector, we need to provide the right tool for those who detect and persecute the perpetrators of these inequities. Let's imagine a blacksmith without a hammer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	So the proposed amendment is certainly to be supported. It is clearer than the text contained in the supplementary proposal that lays down the basis for the prosecution of offences which may occur within an activity which is not economic in general, but where all the other signs which are so close to economic activity as to justify such a definition, of course, are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Since no one wants another word, I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 20 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. My word, Mrs. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that, in our Group of Members, we regret that the proposal has limited itself to certain changes and additions and that the law will have to wait for a more thorough intervention. However, it seemed worth giving us a supplement to Article 20, in order to include, in addition to the crime of evasion of minors, a specific offence to prevent personal contact precisely for the sake of protecting the benefit of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Well, we do not support this amendment because it falls out of the framework of the concept, as it is now established, when we have excluded from the basic proposal a series of changes that are similar in nature, such changes as have been estimated to be worth more careful consideration. In this regard, I should also say that the Ministry envisages the launch of a research project to provide the professional basis for a comprehensive redesign of all these provisions, which have been partially imposed here, but also, of course, a comprehensive regulation of the penal code after both novelties.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Although I could agree with the intention of this amendment by the New Slovenia Group of Members, I must say that in a two-day debate on the amendments to the Penal Code, it has been often said that interference with such an amendment is a very sensitive subject and that changes to the Penal Code should be addressed only after the widest debate is held. We, even when we tabled the amendments, followed the conclusions drawn up by the Inter-Cathedral Conference so many times and followed the opinion of the criminal law experts that we should not open the penal code with some intervention. Unlike, for example, the following article, where we have succeeded with the amendment, that we have defined as a crime only the non-payment of subsistence rather than the avoidance of subsistence. However, I must say that we have also followed the initiative, which came from the Attorney General's Office, and we have relied on the many data available to us. In the case of, say, non-payment of child support, we were able to operate on information that, despite the issuing of the maintenance act, a lot of nutrients were not paid. In Slovenia, after the decision of the social work centres 23,888, we had dependents determined under the judgment of the Court of Justice of 22,000 and after the settlement of 2,700, a total of 48,779 maintenance acts. Of these, a third of the livelihoods were unpaid, 10,000 compulsive, due to the vulnerability of courts to debtors due to mother’s inadequacy and financial inability to lead long and expensive trials and executions. It is true that since 1999 he has continued to pay compensation for the maintenance fund. We are back to the data that in 2002 this fund paid 379 million tolars or that from the start of operation the maintenance fund paid a total of 893 million tolars. And this, while the Attorney General's Office has also taken the initiative to amend this Article in the criminal code, has led us to table our fellow Members of the amendment and to thank everyone for their support for this amendment on the Internal Policy Committee. As it is said, in all the applications submitted for amendments, we followed the opinion of the Inter-Catheder Conference and left, as the Minister had already announced, a greater intervention when criminal law experts at the Symposiums were united and decided, and where the experts on our shoulders, in the National Assembly, would not then find out who is more applicable in this country in the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	I'm sorry, but I don't know if that's possible procedurally. In my previous defense of the amendment, of which I am the first to be signed, I mistakenly cited the amendment as an example of the Student Organisation in Maribor. I was thinking about the student club Celje, and I'd like to ask for the record so that there's no mistake and I apologize for the misrepresentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are now discussing Article 20 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Article 20 deals with cases or penalties relating to the abduction of a minor. During the hearing, we followed the Government's proposal that in cases where an illegal person takes a minor away from a parent, adoptive parent, guardian, institution or person entrusted to him, and so on and keeps him or her, or even prevents him or her from having the right to have her, the sentence increases from one year to two years. The government then prepared a supplement, which was also partly summarized by the New Slovenia Group and whose support could be disputed. Why? I think that the addition to the second and third paragraphs, as proposed by Nova Slovenija, may in some ways be dangerous. Why? Because it refers, for example, not only to what I have listed so far and what the current law already contains, but also to cases where it is simply to force someone to do something to force him to give up either out of self-interest or out of revenge to take away these rights of a minor and to prevent contact. I believe that such proof of a purpose punishable by a period of six months to five years may be questionable insofar as in some way it touches on any arbitrary conduct in the family relationship itself, and that in the event of such violations, other crimes affecting both human rights and property motives may already be available. Because of, I will say, the fragility and indeterminability of this purpose, which can have a very wide range of meanings, it would be appropriate not to support such a solution as is proposed because there are other mechanisms for sanctioning such consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this article? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude with this debate. I am opening the debate on Article 35 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. I give the floor to Mrs. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, the amendment to Article 35 was intended to further define the word "internal information" with the words "to which the public has not yet been informed". We have written in explanation that the amendment in its content follows the 1989 Convention on Trade on the basis of confidential information, Number 130, which considers the operation to be an incorrect trade operation based on confidential internal information to be the property of the use of data that has not yet been made known to the public or that is still undisclosed. However, it seems particularly important to us that the current criminal code contained this property of information and that the applicant omitted it without justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	We do not oppose this amendment, partly because such a dictatorship is in the existing article of the law, although the question is whether it is already possible to conclude from the proposed text that such information is not known to the public, since it is probably not an abuse, is simply the use of something that is so accessible. However, this delivery proposed by the amendment will certainly not break the article or negatively affect the basic purpose of the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 7.40 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and my co-workers very much for their cooperation. At 6.15 p.m., we will proceed to the consideration of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code. [[Official Journal No 83/01]] . Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Good evening! Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Justice. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIC EXAMPLE 195. Member of the bond law. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code was submitted by Member Jožef Kavtičnik, who gives him the floor to further explain the proposal. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a decision that will enable many individuals who are impenetrable, not too important and socially well-established, that is, to help average citizens and citizens when they need help and have already been elected through first and second-degree courts. I am convinced that in certain cases the Supreme Court has circumvented the purpose of Article 195 of the Bond Act, which protects the beneficiaries of compensation if it has been paid to an honest recipient. I have submitted my proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code for one reason; to protect a person, a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia from an organisation which is financially and organisationally superior so that it can, by its power, also affect changes in the legal practice and decisions of the Supreme Court. Cases such as these are increasingly common in everyday life. The worker was injured at work in the factory and was severely injured and became a third-class invalid after the SPIZ on the basis of this injury. The Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance held that the first accused party and the second accused party were obliged to pay compensation to the defendant for bodily injury and costs. On the basis of a legal judgment, the applicant requested payment to be made. The first defendant was unsuccessful in bankruptcy, while the second defendant paid the compensation along with the late interest. In this regard, the second party submitted an audit to the Supreme Court and after four years of the audit, the Supreme Court ruled that the application against the second party was rejected. As a result, the other defendant requires the return of the full compensation paid for the injury suffered. The Supreme Court has ruled, as it merely states, on the basis of jurisprudence in the last period. So this took four years, and at that time, the case law changed. The complainant would have fallen into a difficult socio-material state because of the complete part of the incompetence and low pension if he had to return what the Supreme Court had demanded. At the request of compensation to the party of the other party, he sought to enforce the provision of Article 216 of the Bond Relations Act, which is also fully summarized by the Bond Code in Article 195, which states, quote: "It is not possible to demand back unwarranted amounts of compensation for injury, health or death if they have been paid to an honest recipient". End of quote. It is an exceptional determination when a fair recipient does not have to repay the amounts of compensation unduly paid for injury, and the legislator has accepted this determination precisely to avoid such a traumatic event as in this case or in such cases. And it is precisely because the case law has recently acted contrary to the theory and practice of previous years that the protection and justification of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia necessarily require an authentic interpretation of the said Article of the Bond Relations Act. It should be interpreted as a fact that there is no return claim under the law itself, since the purpose of the legal relationship established by the parties has already been achieved and the return request would be contrary to the principles. However, the assumption to be fulfilled in doing so is that the recipient is paid compensation for injury, health or death suffered. Therefore, if the injured party was compensated on the basis of a legal judgment, it was certainly fair, even when the court annulled such a judgment on the basis of an exceptional remedy. Your Honor! Members of the Internal Policy Committee have accepted my proposal, amended it and made it even clearer. By doing so, they have instructed us, Members and Members of Parliament, to follow them. I therefore propose that the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Law be adopted. This is not such a pompous and receptive decision of the National Assembly, but decisions about the lives and work of individuals in our country are very important.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. A member of the committee, Dušan Vukko, should present to us the report of the committee. Since he's gone, we won't hear him, but you have him in the building. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Secretary, if I understand correctly, you said you didn't want a word. Now you'd like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Dear Members and Members! The Government has adopted its position on this proposal for authentic interpretation on the basis of the text submitted to it. So, such as has basically been invested, but not what the Committee on Internal Policy is now proposing. With regard to such a text, the Government has determined that the provision of Article 195 for uniform implementation in practice is sufficiently clear, provided that it is understood in the correct context, in accordance with the provisions of Article 190(3) of the Bond Code, which provides that the obligation to return or replace value arises even if someone receives something in relation to a basis which has not been fulfilled or subsequently has been waived. In the Government’s view, the Supreme Court’s legal opinion cannot exclude the application of Article 195 of the Bond Code when the conditions are met for the application of this provision and this decision exempts the injured party from returning compensation for this type of damage if the compensation was paid to him as an honest recipient. According to the Government's assessment, the proposed text amends what was originally proposed because some provisions would be narrowed down. Therefore, according to the Government, the provision of Article 195 is clearly recorded and, in particular, the court is competent to interpret the law in the light of the circumstances of the individual case. As stated, the text of the authentic interpretation has been amended in the meantime, now at least in principle to agree with the arguments, but of course also with the warnings of the possible negative effects of such an interpretation, i.e. with those arguments "for" and "against" mentioned in the Committee's report. So, of course, it is at the National Assembly to decide, for these reasons, how to explain that article in an authentic way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of one of the articles of the Bond Code is only an example of the situation in which a citizen or a citizen of our country may come, because the trial is not provided within a reasonable time period and because the courts are dealing with large judicial backlogs, which is why there is also a review after several years, which may result in payment of the basic amount also from late interest payments, which we know are growing up in the sky with us. This is a case where a citizen has received compensation from an insurance undertaking on the basis of a legal judgment, but an audit has been tabled against this judgment. The Supreme Court granted the audit and the legal judgment was amended and thus the Court demanded, in its view, an unwarranted compensation, whether in the event of physical injury, health or death. Under the same provision, the caselaw took different views either that it rejected the amounts recovered in the event of a successful audit or that it insisted that the refund amount was justified. The proposal for an authentic interpretation relates to Article 195 of the Bond Code and it is necessary to follow the enrichment principle, as stated by Dr. Juhart, which means that the recipient does not have to repay compensation for personal damage or as the legal and regulatory service states in its opinion that it is not possible to claim the amounts of compensation unduly paid if they have been paid to the fair recipient. The Government considers that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code is not substantively acceptable, since the provision is clearly recorded, or that the interpretation of the law under the circumstances of the individual case is the responsibility of the court. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the opinion of the legislative and legal service is more acceptable and acceptable. Especially since it proposes to consider the possibility of explicit regulation of additional circumstances in the application of Article 195 in terms of the protection of the recipient of compensation, which, in our view, is particularly important in the context of large judicial backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to us by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! Normally, authentic explanations go quieter and pass quickly. This is probably a screeching case in heaven, and he deserves a few words for it. Clearly, this case is a typical reflection of the present moment and is a typical indicator of the situation in our judiciary. Nor should we be surprised by the findings of the German judge Dukoff, who raised so much dust last year and clearly pointed not so much to the problems, but, above all, to the causes of such a situation in this branch of government. The very hard words of this judge, that our contractors in this branch of power work much less than they do in Germany, get their confirmation in this case.The claim that our courts do not solve cases in real time is in this case'made meat'. It is not logical, and it is incomprehensible, that someone who had a work accident in 1992 and this in March, went to battle with a court mill for justifiable compensation. The company where he was employed had all the insurance procedures regulated. In almost seven years, exactly November 1998, the court’s legal decision on compensation to the injured person amounting to 2 million 366 thousand was given to the injured person. However, the audit requested by the insurance company in the Supreme Court lasted almost five years and surprised the injured person in February 2003, after five years. The judgment on behalf of the people, as recorded in the paper received by the injured person, stated that he had to pay back the money he had already received as a disabled person in 1998 seven years after the accident, with interest. And if I quickly give chronology: the 1992 accident, the compensation based on a legal judgment in 1998, 2 million 366 thousand, return on the basis of a review in 2003, and that 2 million 366 thousand principals, 6 million 786 thousand interest and almost 200 thousand costs, that is, a total of 9 million 339 thousand. So, the wrong world. Apparently, something went wrong in the system that solves this, and there's obviously something really wrong. The solution proposed by the authentic explanation is only meaningful for the SDS. And if someone didn't interpret our legislation as an elastic that we can also experience at the expense of people who have become disabled, it wouldn't really be necessary to explain. For an ordinary citizen, the law is clear and understandable enough. We will, of course, support this authentic explanation in the SDS, because it is also the only possible way to prevent the arbitrary elastic interpretation of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Once we speak domestically and understandingly to people who will hear us or listen to us, or understand: yes, Mr Kavtičnik, you are right. Your original request or proposal to amend the authentic interpretation is justified. Absolutely. And we'll back her up. We have heard, I am very disappointed, the Minister's explanation, in which it was not clear to feel "yes" or "no", you decide, something is changing, something is not. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we all have the opinion of the Government, which states: "In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal of Ambassador Jožef Kavticnik to accept the authentic interpretation of Article 195 is not substantively acceptable." And last sentence: "Considering the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the proposal for an initiative to adopt an authentic interpretation of the law be set out in Article 195 of the Bond Code." I haven't heard that from the government today. I don't know why not. I don't know why not. Mr Kavtičnik was absolutely right in his proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, ordinary people. We can't do something right now. If someone's a speculator, he's a speculator. But we can't talk about speculators right now. We're talking about an authentic explanation of something that happened. If something happened to someone, if a first-degree and second-degree court admitted it to them, then that's what's left. In any case, someone can imagine an audit. And this review will determine, according to my, your, your wish that something doesn't work. And she's gonna say, "Yeah, now put the money back." To talk about - also express honesty that an expression, if someone is an honest customer, is too quick to spend the money that he is dealing with because he is a disabled first degree, is not fair. Ladies and gentlemen in the legislative branch of power, if the court decides twice to do so, it is so! No insurance company, no rich man has the right to invent something for himself that's been decided and wasted, I'm sorry. That's actually how everyone can do it. Now, if we doubt each and every one of us, that's not how it works. And I'm sorry that something is now changing, some amendments, some, I don't know what kind of change the government is agreeing with and even a little committee, a little bit of even the legal and legislative service, which has also made it clear. I truly respect her. The non-legislative service based on the articles of the law has made it clear that, I will say, between the lines - there is no preference for an authentic explanation or proposal, but it has given at least an opportunity to study it. Let's be honest for once. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the authentic interpretation given by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik is fully justified and we will absolutely support such authentic support. We will not have all the other arrangements, negotiations and talks, because the next god knows who will keep the insurance company's payment, request an audit, the audit will find, I don't know, that 215 tolars have been misdirected and the whole process will be stopped. And someone who, in fact, I speak for someone who actually pays insurance, who is actually entitled to some compensation, because all of them are actually forcing us, even through the pension law. And someone who is actually entitled to some payment because of some - forgive the domestic expression - the finte will not be justified. And now we're going to keep the payout, we're going to keep it together, and the audit is going to find that 200 tolars doesn't justify 200 million, and even if he's dead - I'm sorry, I don't want anyone to do that. This is also evident from this. Mr Kavtičnik, in the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support your original authentic explanation, which you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee, which fully replaces the text of the interpretation and is contained in the report of 12.3.2004. Mr. Barovich, would you like a word? Time's up. Mr. Wolf is not here. Does the proposer want a word? [[No, no, ……]] A representative of the government, Mr. Minister? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and the amendment on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and on the amendment of the home working body, we will decide today, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the vote at 7.40 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. At 19:00 and 5 minutes, we will move on to the 14th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Until then, I'm adjourning. I thank the Minister very much for his cooperation. We'll pick it up at 7.05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AVENTIC EXPOSURE 137. A MEMBER OF THE INVESTMENT FUNDS AND MANAGEMENT SOCIETY LEGISLATION LAW. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of this Article of the Law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to a government representative. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, adopted by the National Assembly on 28 November 2002, prohibits transactions between certain persons in the first paragraph of Article 137 or lays down in three points persons with whom a mutual fund account management company is not allowed to enter into business. However, there is no specific subject of transactions whose conclusion is prohibited or which provision is able to be interpreted in several ways. Given the logic of the language interpretation of the first paragraph in connection with the language interpretation of the second and third paragraphs of Article 180 of this Law, we believe that the prohibition referred to in the first paragraph concerns only those transactions the property of the mutual fund and not all transactions. However, this legal provision should be amended. Therefore, for reasons of greater security and clarity, whether the prohibition on the conclusion of transactions relates to all transactions concluded by the management company for the account of the mutual fund with certain persons referred to in points 137 of Article 137, or whether only transactions the property of the mutual fund is prohibited are subject to an authentic interpretation of this Article of the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. At the initiative of the supervisory institution and certain other financial stakeholders, the government has prepared an appropriate authentic explanation. On the basis of this authentic interpretation, it is specified that only transactions whose property is the property of the mutual fund are prohibited. This will contribute to greater legal clarity and facilitate the application of this law in practice. According to that Government, the authentic interpretation of this Article is necessary and we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the proposed text of the authentic interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Mag. Silk. We are now going to the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I ask the chairman of the committee, Comrade Puck, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The original working body discussed the proposal for an authentic interpretation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its last meeting. In doing so, after presentation of the authentic interpretation by the applicant, we have also seen or examined the opinion of the legislative and legal service from which it follows that certain corrections need to be made in the interests of clarity. Thus, the Committee decided on two amendments, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and adopted them. That's how the text of the authentic explanation is now, as I'm about to say. The text of the authentic interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act shall be amended to read as follows: As transactions for the mutual fund account referred to in Article 137(1) of the Investment Funds Act and the management company shall be considered as transactions for which the mutual fund is held. The title of the proposal for a compulsory interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds Act and the management company shall be amended to read: Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 137(1) of the Investment Funds Act and the Management Company. By correcting the original text of the authentic interpretation, we have essentially added a more precise view that the transactions which management companies cannot do for the mutual fund account are those relating to the management of the mutual fund. And I suggest to the assembly that they accept an authentic explanation in such a text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much, colleague Pucko, chairman of the committee. We will hear some views of the groups of Members. First of all, colleague Bernik represents the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State and escort. With regard to that Article, the following question arose: whether the prohibition on the conclusion of transactions referred to in Article 137(1) concerns all transactions concluded by the management company for the mutual fund account with the persons referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of paragraph 137. articles, or are the subject of a prohibition only on transactions the property of which is the property of the mutual fund and which fall within the concept of the management of the property of the mutual fund to which Article 137 is systematically located? The need for the adoption of an authentic interpretation led to a divergent interpretation of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency for the Market in Securities. The Ministry of Finance shall interpret in these articles in an intensive manner, contrary to the Securities Market Agency, which has taken a restrictive approach to the Article. The proposal is written by the Ministry and is attached to it by the Association of Investment Funds Companies. The Minister of Finance is of the opinion that the prohibition of entering into transactions for the account of a mutual fund with the persons referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 137(1) shall apply to the prohibition of the conclusion of transactions of which it is the subject of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the mutual fund. Therefore, this prohibition does not apply to the conclusion of a contract which is subject to the provision of trust services to the Investment Fund. For that reason, Article 137 also does not prohibit a management company from concluding a trust fund contract with a custodian associated with a management company. This Article should therefore, in particular, prevent spillage within connected persons, which is also covered by a restrictive interpretation. Of course, in New Slovenia we accept the amendments that were adopted on the committee. This was somehow a solution in the midst of both situations, because we have accepted some changes to what our legislative and legal service has proposed. However, I agree with the opinion of the legislative and legal service and here I state: "In view of the dependents, it is a question of its own making, and therefore shows further consideration of the legal regulation of the prohibitions and restrictions imposed so far with a view to ensuring transparency of business in the financial market."the end of the quote. With regard to the text from the Government of the proposed authentic interpretation, however, I believe that the essence of the interpretation is that it is explicitly determined that the transactions that a management company may conclude for the mutual fund account are those relating to the management of the mutual fund's assets. So, we went out, like the Finance Committee, at the same point, and I hope that the government will accept this and that they will also consider what more needs to be done in this regard. Transparency in financial transactions is an extremely important thing and we need to be careful here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Comrade Podobnik, you have the floor to present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! When adopting a new law on investment funds and management companies, we actively participated in the Slovenian People's Party with the assistance of the expert group. In the context of the sub-chapter ‘Provision of the assets of the mutual fund’ and Article 137, our purpose and the purpose of the proposer was by no means to prohibit the conclusion of the transactions referred to in Article 137(1) and (2) or (3) of the first paragraph of this Article from all transactions concluded by the management company for the account of the mutual fund with the persons referred to in paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of this Article. The text of paragraph 1 of this Article alone does not define the subject of transactions whose conclusion is prohibited. However, it is already clear from the following text that the prohibition does not apply to all transactions that the mutual fund account management company has decided on. Even in the systemic context of the text, it is clear that the legislator's will relates to transactions the subject of which is the property of the mutual fund. The purpose of the first paragraph of Article 137 is to prevent conflicts of interest in terms of the protection of the assets of the mutual fund or to prevent the possibility and damage of holders of mutual fund coupons. Conflict of interest shall be prevented by the prohibition of a management company from entering into the management business of the fund for its own account and, in view of the possibility of abuse, also by prohibiting the conclusion of transactions for the account of the mutual fund with the persons associated with it. However, the purpose of this prohibition is not to prevent a company for the management of transactions for the account of a mutual fund managed by a trading company which is a related person with a management company, provided that such a company has concluded such a transaction in accordance with the rules of the applicable securities market law or management rules. Since the beginning of the drafting of the law, therefore, our purpose has not been to prevent the custody of a trustee from participating in a management company operating mutual funds for which the trustee provides custody services, and we will therefore support the text of the authentic interpretation in order to avoid problems and complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	If I see the presence correctly, it's my friend Pucka's turn. You have the floor in the general debate. Would you like to present the Group's position?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	Good, because then you're also listed as a Member. So on behalf of the Group of Members. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Group will provide an authentic explanation of the first paragraph of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, mainly on the grounds that it should clarify the issues which the management company should not carry out. The present first paragraph of Article 137 states that it must not carry out business, but it is not determined which. It could therefore be misinterpreted that it must not enter into any business, which would not be consistent with other provisions of this Article as well as with certain other provisions of the law. For example, in such an interpretation, the management company could not conclude contracts with the custodian for the account of the investment fund at all, as provided for in Article 53(1) of the Act. Therefore, the authentic interpretation of Article 137(1) provides that only those transactions relating to the assets of the Investment Fund are prohibited. Such an explanation is appropriate for three reasons. For the first time, the purpose of the law is to prevent conflicts of interest. Secondly, for reasons of the language interpretation of the law, the literal meaning of the provisions is said to be. Thirdly, the inclusion of Article 137 in Chapter 5.6 of the Investment Funds and Companies Act - 1, which governs the management of the assets of the mutual fund. The management of the assets of the Fund also includes the conclusion of transactions the property of which is the property of the mutual fund. From what I have said, it follows that the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will support this authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Okay. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Would you like a word as a Member, Comrade Pucka? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Peca is not present, colleague Krebs is not present, colleague Anderlich is not. Does the Secretary of State want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government shall adopt the Committee's proposal in the amendments that have been tabled. At the same time, I would like to say that we are also in line with the securities market agency with regard to the amendment of this Article, so we propose, as I said earlier, that this article be adopted in this complementary form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. With your explanation, I conclude the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. In less than 20 minutes, we will move on to decisions in the context of the vote. I would just like to remind you that first of all we have four decisions on our colleagues' proposals to consider the answers to their questions at the next meeting. Then we'll go to the Income Act, decide whether it's a suitable basis or not. Then we have some amendments to electronic services, deciding that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis, complementing the penal code and then going on to mandate-election issues. That's what I wanted to warn you about, because it's gonna take us a while. I wanted to warn you that today is also on the agenda. As secret elections, it will certainly take us a little longer. [[Back-up advertising.]] We have secret elections. All I have warned is that we have a mandate-electing matter, at this point also secret ballots and that this will take some time for us to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the agenda items that were on the agenda last night and today. First, we will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, to the interrupted item on questions of Members and Members. As I have informed you, we need to decide on four matters, four proposals for decisions by which our colleagues propose to consider the answer either to the Prime Minister or to the competent ministers to their questions. First of all, we will decide on the proposal of Comrade Dr. Bayuk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of Mags. Robbery on the question of the economic and financial effects and consequences of the changes in the proposal for a health reform in relation to voluntary health insurance. Please take a look at your voting devices, see if everything's all right. I don't see any objection to that. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal by Koleg Bajuk wants to explain his vote. [[...]] I simply point out that this is not a controversy on substantive issues, just an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this proposal. I am sure that the debate on this issue is necessary because in the public statements of Minister Kebra, in the Saturday annex of Dela, we could read that the initial proposal should be to introduce income-based premiums, the idea they were working with, and that this was rejected. And that's why - this explanation in their interview in the Saturday annex of work - they decided on something else [[and this is supposed to be the proposal]] In order to eliminate, actually eliminate voluntary insurance and make it compulsory. Now they have abandoned it again, on behalf of the same proposal, which the profession has already rejected. Mr Prime Minister said he would re-examine this profession. It is not clear to me whether the Prime Minister has all the information or not, because in this sense you are very much at odds with your own minister. That is why I think that the debate is necessary because, while we are in a strange game of public statements, we are not actually credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision proposed by Dr Bayuk. We're voting. Of the 62 present is 21 for and 40 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposal for a decision has been rejected. Our colleague, Jožef Jerovšek, suggests that the assembly decide on a proposal for a decision to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister Bohinc to his question about bankruptcy proceedings and the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Bizarro on bankruptcy procedures and the functioning of bankruptcy senate and bankruptcy managers. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	What came the day in Maribor is that the four bankruptcy managers are companies [[There, Maribor Printing, Metal]] , so companies where thousands of workers were left completely unharmed on the road and were then defrauded and are now being cheated on for the second time by the actions of bankruptcy managers. These are outrageous acts, in my opinion, planned money laundering and planned robbery. We all know that everywhere in Slovenia we have a number of bankruptcy procedures that do not take place and end. The completely imprudent operation of bankruptcy managers, and apparently the bankruptcy Senate, too, is very well involved. Yesterday's responses to the two ministers were extremely slow. It is clear that there is no intention to bring some investigation to a close here, and it is therefore extremely important that the National Assembly, with a debate on the course of bankruptcy Senatees on these financial insolvency management affaires, should hold a debate and that we move the matter from a dead point, such as the political will now in the country, in order to make a difference in this area in order to change the bankruptcy law or anything. Clearly, you're not in a political mood. Our experience teaches us that in other financial affairs, the activation of the National Assembly has only contributed to things starting to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	He's a friend of mine. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	Your Honors are here! We also assess in the Slovenian National Party Group that it is in the interest of the rights and, on the other hand, the labour relations obligations, as well as in the interest of the system which would prevent duplication of functions in our case, as suggested by the distinguished colleague Jerovšek, as well as in the context of preventing the impoverishment of the Slovenian economy, and, in our view, one of the more important ones, this is in the interest of the system of transparency of insolvency proceedings, and therefore we also appeal to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members to support this National Assembly's idea of wider debate and thus to instruct or assist the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the development of such positions, which will enable, for the first time, transparent, secondly, the most important, effective procedures that have been reflected in the exercise of rights under the title of work and rights of various masses in such procedures. In the Slovenian National Party or the Slovenian National Party Group, we will, of course, support the proposal of our colleague Jerovška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I will personally support this proposal. Why? As soon as I asked the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, how are these things being handled, to be triggered in the government, because I have provided information that some bankruptcy procedures are deliberately stalling for so long, because these bankruptcy managers are serving well. I have demonstrated in my implementation how many bankruptcy managers lead how many procedures and when the masses run out, they close the process quickly, and they delay it for years. I think that this general debate can contribute to transparency when we give evidence of how they work, how bankruptcy managers work and delay bankruptcy, so I think it is right to hold this debate and therefore I will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Damage to social property is the current theme of our transition. Unfortunately, the damage triggered more than 100,000 people on the road. This injury was done in several ways. One of the most disgusting ways, of course, was to amend legislation and amend the Criminal Procedure Act in 1994. Another such disgusting way was the establishment - and behind it was the legal basis - of so-called Bay Pass companies. And, of course, the third such way was to adopt legislation for precisely certain matters, the case of the Maribor TAM. That the injury and social property, that the damage to these creditors, which caused damage to social property, has so much to do with the roads and that these creditors, the workers who once worked in these companies, are harmed by the way they did and did, in fact, by the bankruptcy managers, are going across everything and the last borders. Finally, it will prove in this debate that these bankruptcy managers have even significantly higher salaries, significantly higher incomes than the personal income of the Director of the Insurance Company Triglav, which is over 3 million Slovenian tolars. That they also sponsor a lot of things from this bankruptcy mass, including politics, will also show this debate, so of course I will support the proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	In the parliamentary group, we will support this proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response to the question raised by his fellow Member Jerovska. It is necessary to speak in order to see, speak and adopt a law on income, and these capital gains created through such procedures would in fact become an object without being taxed for a certain period of time. In fact, this story is continuing, and these transitional tycoon profits would not be taxed, which is also the government's proposal. It is therefore necessary to discuss this in order to warn the Government that such actions do not continue. These bankruptcy proceedings, which took place, were illegal and illegal. This was a method of illegal and illegal property. And, as Mr Puksic has already said, parallel companies have come through this. We will support such a proposal, and hopefully, colleagues and colleagues, so will the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Well, this afternoon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	When we were discussing [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	We don't hear from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	on the law [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	We don't hear from you. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u183	This afternoon, when we discussed the Income Act and we raised the question why, after the new family with more children, we should pay inappropriately more income than before, of course, the Finance Minister replied that this is the case. The state has to save if we want to provide all the benefits and admit it, then we'd need 30 billion and so on. However, perhaps this debate on these most recent discoveries of the location of social property, because it is also a place where social property is treated as its property, and where social property managers behave as if they are owners, and not just social property managers, might still be able to obtain any funds from other addresses, not from income and income tax or wages. I think this is an important question. When the SIB ended, Orion opened up when Orion had not yet closed up, new affairs were opening up. And each time the National Assembly addressed a topic, they began to resolve themselves. Not before, I'm sure, never before until the thing came out. And the parties want this to be clarified too, the proposal will be supported. However, if they want this not to be discussed and the continued management of our funds continues, they will, of course, reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u184	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The proposal for a decision shall be rejected. 29 for and 41 for 71. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] Mr Pukšič suggests to the Assembly that the next proposal should be decided to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, to his question of the Member's attempted bribery. Comrade Pukšič, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Seven years have passed since my fellow Member, Paul Rupar, attempted to bribe himself and, in fact, recorded the way this bribery was done with the tape. That tape was handed over to the police. It was said that this tape surrendered or went to Belgium for research. What's been happening from here on out is not really what the report was, what happened to alleged briber Igor Šimenc, whether he really won certain awards for this action in the form of a caravan in Jezerska, what these measures were, what was happening by the prosecution. And since there was also a Justice Minister on this question in the Chamber yesterday, the government would have had the opportunity to speak with a debate on this question in the National Assembly before all matters were completely obsolete; that the 1994 event would not have been repeated when Šubic did not write the judgment and then the case was obsolete. I therefore propose that we support the proposal for a public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u186	Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u187	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal, in part or in particular, due to egotistic concerns, at least in this case. As we know, during the 2000-2004 mandate period there were quite a few activities against the Member, with such tensions being felt mainly in the Slovenian National Party, from colleague Jelinčič to Barovic. And it is through this debate that colleague Puksic proposes, otherwise with a different purpose, that we would like to touch in particular the instrument of the opposition Member. We believe that the issue of the different status of the government and opposition Member is still important during this period. According to our assessment of both government services and various government organisations, such a difference in the status of competence and, above all, in political responsibilities, they exploit themselves in the interests of their own interests, i.e. themselves. We therefore assess that it would make sense to support this debate and to extend its content in the context of the debate itself to all the irregularities that have taken place during this mandate, but we know them, of course, in the story of the previous mandate. We will therefore support in the National Party's parliamentary group the idea of this kind of debate by my colleague Puksic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u188	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision proposed by my colleague Pukšič. Of the 71 present, 23 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposal for a decision has been rejected. We have a fourth decision, proposed by our fellow Member of the Magi. In order to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Information Society, Dr Ganttar, to his question on the allocation of radio and television frequencies. Voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u189	I propose that we confirm the proposal for a decision to hold a debate on the response of Minister Gantar. It is, however, a matter of assigning radio and television frequencies, where I have argued that there is a wild west, wild distribution and mag in this area. In fact, this has also been confirmed by the Gantar that this has happened in the past and that it does not have the leverage necessary to resolve it properly. That is why I believe that this debate is necessary in order to establish order and to divide frequencies in the manner necessary in which calls are made. In addition, there is also an open issue of coordination of frequencies with Italy, where coordination is not taking place, where the power of Italian distributors is being overwhelmed and they are being turned on by coordination and international standards. Otherwise, in the context of this debate, we could then propose conclusions, given that we have adopted a different interpretation for the last time, that, in the context of the 10th item of the agenda, the national assembly should be able to resolve certain procedural issues and we can also adopt conclusions on this answer. First of all, it was an interpretation that we could not reach any conclusions in the debate, but this time we could help Minister Gantar to resolve this wild West. The Broadcasting and Telecommunications Agency is its own kind of dicks, which do not control it sufficiently, and apparently also does not have the power of a minister to establish order. So the capital moguls, because here are these capital moguls, control the area of broadcasting these frequencies. I think Minister Gantar would also support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u190	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u191	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Perhaps sometimes we naively believe those who claim that the Slovenian government is not a government. It is precisely from this title that we believe that it is also possible through such a debate in which individual decisions cannot be taken, but in some non-directive form, it can affect the course of events in a particular ministry or within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Based on the fact that the Ministry of Information Technology and its Minister Paula Gantar are likely to be one of the less visible members of the Slovenian Government, and given that, despite the small activity of the Ministry in question, there are a large number of outstanding issues and, after our assessment of the issues, we believe that it would be very useful to help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define the matter in substance at the time of the debate. As for Mr Drobnik's accusations, they make sense, according to our assessment. And it would also make sense for the Minister to throw them away at such a meeting. This would, of course, avoid any charges of premature or electoral interpretation. The fact that takes place in terms of promoting competition and precisely the activities of the Minister in this area, namely the elimination of the ability to compete in the allocation of frequencies in both the domestic and foreign fields, would take such a step forward. Therefore, not only could such irregularities possibly also cause interpolation, but in particular in the sense that in this field, in the field of the content of the information society, we should take a step precisely to promote competition, which is in line with the new expectations of 1.5. in this country we still need. But we also want to tell the other side of the medal that this National Assembly is the forum where such debates, doubts or accusations must take place, develop and eventually spread in such a form that there will be no dilemma, no questions. We may also draw a conclusion, but I believe that this will help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that this is also the intention of Comrade Drobnic, to resolve this issue in the interests of citizens and citizens of our country. Therefore, we will also support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u192	We're moving on to decision-making. My friend Kremjar wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u193	I myself will not support this proposal for a simple reason, because we are in this national assembly, as Minister Gunter also warned yesterday, and the interpretation of his performance here today was not entirely correct. Minister Gunter, without wanting to represent him now, because he can read from the magnetogram, what he said, of course also said that it was such an irregular situation, but this is over two years, a little more than two years ago adopted legislation that regulates these things and this moment is well arranged. All the things that were discussed yesterday talk about things that are 8, 10 years old and are, of course, from a period of time and are not the subject of these organs that deal with frequency sharing, so of course this would be one for my taste a rather pointless discussion that would discuss some things that may be problematic, but they are a matter of some history and they need to be cleared up somewhere and eventually. But since we have adopted this legislation, the matter has been settled and it is supposed to work as we have adopted this legislation in this national assembly, which is why, of course, I cannot support such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u194	Comrade Sok, please. You have the floor, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to call, but my friend Kremjar challenged me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u196	There's no controversy, just an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u197	It's not a controversy, I'll explain. I just said that he challenged me and forced me to speak. A while ago, we discussed the report of the Broadcasting Council on the Infrastructure Committee. There the director answered the questions, I think it is written by Simič, and he drew attention to the major problems that prevail in the field, just as my colleague Drobnič said when frequencies from Italy go deep into our territory and the Italians do not respect legislation in this area. That is why I think it would be very important to deal with this issue in the National Assembly and to adopt certain decisions. He also pointed out the dilemmas of the unresolved relationship between the world and between the agency. So it would be appropriate to talk about this and these issues from 1993 are not resolved, just as the frequency for the radio hearth is not solved. I'm sorry, I have to say this here. It is very immoral and unethical for this country to have this problem, despite so many interventions and the expectations of our citizens, especially in the field of north-eastern Slovenia, in Pomurje, that we do not solve this problem properly. I will make this proposal that the debate on the Minister's response be held, supported and I think that it would also be in the interests of the Minister to be able to develop here in Parliament, respond to all questions and also get views from Members on the problems that are present in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u198	There are three other colleagues who want it. First Dr. Bajuk, behind him colleague Marshich and colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was myself informed of a specific case raised by my colleague Drobnič's questions. And this is really one thing that has been going on since 1993, but, dear fellows and colleagues, I will vote in favour of this proposal for this debate because this matter is not resolved. It is true that it is already in our common history that it has been going on for 11 years now, but this is not solved. It's completely incorrect that he's trying to present himself today as if it's already part of our past. This particular issue is still open, it is still open. It was very domestic. First, they gave someone a temporary frequency, and now it's pretty permanent. That's, you know, these things, if we don't get to them, they're gonna keep going the way they've been. But we're doomed to put up with you. More. As Members of the Republic of Slovenia, we have a duty to settle these matters. And I don't know any other way than to have a public debate on this matter. We need to have this public debate and we need to solve this problem definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u200	My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, President. I must say that I will not support this debate. But I have to say here, there were some wrong indications. We have considered the report on the Telecommunications Agency on the Committee on the Economy and not on the Committee on Infrastructure. And if the colleagues who discussed at the time were present on this committee, where the discussion was held, I must say, rather boisterous, lively and controversial, they will recall that I was the one who triggered this issue, and here in this national assembly has also repeatedly raised a question regarding the pollution of our frequency space, particularly at our Western border. However, this question has nothing to do with the frequency distribution. This is a completely different story, and it is simply a matter that our country must settle on an international level with our neighbour, who is definitely ruled by the wild west, and here we are in some objective problem. Although I would like to remind my colleagues that there is probably a lot of need to be cleared up from the past. Maybe even a story about TV3 frequencies, which was set up at the time, if I remember correctly, I was not even involved in politics, for one particular reason, that this television would be of national importance, which would mainly cover religious content. This television was sold as a completely commercial television after various colloquiations and failed management. And go and take a look back at who was then the head of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as it was then called, and who ran the agency that then shared these frequencies. You will find that many strange things have been happening, especially when it comes to broadcasting radio frequencies, where someone has been allowed, such as Radio Fireplace, to become a national programme while others have not been able to, and today this is very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u202	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u203	This debate could also be called a contribution to the pluralisation of media space. Or just to find out if all local radio stations meet the conditions. I could argue that at least one radio station has exceeded this and that it is no longer local, but it is national, beyond the criteria, and in a way that through the proximity of officials who have allocated frequencies, or just because someone would like to influence that some political option or some content, some programs get more space. I believe you know what I'm talking about - I'm talking about the fire station radio, I'm talking about TV3 and someone else. But it's okay, I'm putting up with this calm soul, because it's a privilege that I don't know at this point on the fingers of one, two, three hands, as far as I have them, to list how many of these content, how many of these radios, after all, even how many televisions, and I think it's okay. But I think it is even better that this is not discussed by the National Assembly and that this is not regulated by the State Assembly in the debates, but rather by the Council of the Telecommunications Agency, which allocates these frequencies and allocates the media space, if I can say so, as someone declares himself as meeting the conditions, but rather that we do so politically in the National Assembly, who is louder, who cries out more, who is threatened by a public word and does not come to terms. That is why I will not support this question or debate because I feel that this must be resolved elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u204	Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I myself will support my colleague Drobnič's proposal, because I was alone at that meeting of the Committee on the Economy where the debate really got heated and that debate also showed that there is still a way to open this debate. Indeed, also about what Mr Mamić said, about the coverage of the frequency space in the Slovenian Primorje and across the border. At the same time, the reasons given in these explanations were why some are against transparent sharing of frequencies to cover the media space. It has just been said that if we translate them into political-ideological reasons that some stations can develop successfully, others need to be stopped. During the pre-election period, you can see what's behind all this, how you're going to abuse media space. That is why I think we should be so democratic that we can open this debate and also prevent this abuse of media space in this national assembly now, at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u206	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Of the 70 present, there are 25 for and 41 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. Point 1 is closed. We are moving on to the 2nd item of the agenda, to the interruption of the first reading of the draft law on income. On this point, we have only one decision to decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for an income law at first reading is appropriate for further consideration. My friend Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the Income Act and I do not think it is suitable for further consideration. That is also how I understood today many debaters, including those who participated in the coalition negotiations and who have troubled many of the articles of this law. I think that the law is more or less pre-electional, something promises, and the actual effects will, of course, come the second year, which is the time after the elections. But what I find controversial is actually two things that are unacceptable to me in this marriage. The first is to reduce the progressiveness of taxation for families with multiple children, of course it is not social criteria as some of you have consistently repeated today, but it is simply a matter of giving larger income discounts to families who choose more lives. And I think that with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, this will be very important for us Slovenians, who are few of us in this great community of European nations. Secondly, which is why I cannot vote in favour of this law and I think that this law is bad, but of course it is the intention of the Government to include subsidies among taxable sources, despite today's argument that the prices of agricultural products, despite the subsidies introduced at that time before joining the European Union, have not increased but have decreased. Instead of being rewarded by farmers who persist and farm in high-mountain areas, the ruling coalition intends to burden and punish them. I think it's the wrong world. We reap the knowledge on which we sit, and for these reasons I will not vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u208	Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you. Of course, I will not support the law either, especially because it wants to achieve the goal, so it is said that work is under tax, and it is not selectively causing a number of criminal new tax increases by reducing the benefits. I think it is also from the Minister's response to the many concerns of the unjustifiable and, in fact, the senseless new taxation, that there was no reply from the Minister, and on the average he replied that they had decided to do so because they needed this money, of course. I think that by taxing subsidies, taxing pensions on expulsions, pensions and abolishing progressive reliefs for children, the contribution to the budget or to this State Treasury would be unreasonably low in relation to the effects that this entails, so I do not like such an approach or I cannot support it, and the Minister has also shown no willingness to listen to it in the second defence against this procedure, which is why, of course, I cannot support such solutions, because there are many injustices and many bad decisions at the expense of some higher and broader objectives, which is unacceptable to me, so I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u210	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u211	On behalf of the Group of Members. For the Slovenian National Party Group, the law is unacceptable for three basic reasons. Firstly, if we take into account and believe in the theory of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law will reduce the tax burden on work and that it will raise the threshold of untaxed income, it is necessary to know that, of course, with the knowledge stated by the Government, part of the tax revenue will be lost. And since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not specify anywhere in the content of the law how this part of the tax revenue will be compensated, and since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared to reduce its government spending in return for this part or, say, state consumption, which has proved to be abnormally high in this mandate, the government instead of self-critically reducing its consumption, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided in this proposal of the law to make a different choice. For the option of raising existing tax rates or introducing new tax rates. Thus, the government in the draft law shamelessly suggests to us the theory that it is not a shame to admit that the citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia today is too taxed. But even more. On the contrary, citizens and citizens are subject to the necessary amount of taxes, and under this law they impose or impose so-called interest taxes, saving money deposits on banks, debt securities, special financial claims, higher tax burdens on any form of capital withdrawal and introduces a new tax assumption, according to our assessment, on the basis of a tax obligation on the basis of the rental relationship, which, on the one hand, will impose both on the subject and on the other hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, the subject of rent. In the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we expected a different tax reform, particularly such a tax reform, which will take place on the one hand and be reflected in the structure of taxes. Therefore, tax revenues under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be reduced and those revenues of the budget called non-tax revenue reflected in the economic capacity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be increased. But since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have this ability, the so-called non-tax revenue under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is less than 10% of all budget revenues. According to the National Party's assessment, this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should aim to make the country more efficient in dealing with its assets, rather than exclusively raising funds for its own consumption, which, of course, is totally inappropriate, from aircraft to hanger and all these matters. From this address, we cannot support the draft law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u212	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Without mistaking, if we are now 77, at least from what I have been able to read from e-mail, and before the content of this e-mail is listed 90 names, it means that all Members can read people's opinions. It was just a voice to the public, an interested public, a public opinion that we cannot say is safe and proper, but I personally read at least 14 comments to the law we are talking about right now on the income law. Dear colleagues! We could all see that, between 14 or 18 comments, no one praised this bill, and everyone was holding it back. My conscience estimates that the public concerned has the right to express its opinion. This has also elected me, and for this reason, on my behalf, I will be speaking as a member of the Slovenian National Party, as Bogdan Barovic, against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u214	My friend, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I cannot support this decision because this is not the basis for further discussion. If anything, what we have considered today is the basis for the continued existence of such a tax system that is actually harmful to Slovenia. Until the Slovenian government has the political wisdom to propose to the National Assembly a minimum redistribution of the tax burden, then we will not support such a decision. As long as it doesn't happen, it's a shame we're talking about the woodwheat, so let's look at the woods. And the forest has a very clear image. Slovenia is in the lowest place as regards capital revenue taxation and among the highest when labour taxation takes place. And that is how it will remain on the basis of this proposal. No matter what Mr. Minister said today, Dr. Maramor, that 35 billion will go up over one law and 25 will go down. The net effect is to maintain this system, and this system is unfair and unfair, this system will consciously and planned to retain the privileges of capital tycoons, an untransparent transition process of transformation of social property. We will never support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u216	Please, Comrade Master Petty Officer. You're up. Comrade Jerovšek behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u217	I will not support this decision for more reasons. First, what a fellow Member Dr. Bajuk has already stated. Moreover, I do not support such a law that will reduce relief for large families. I also do not agree with reducing the possibility of special reliefs for NGOs to be brought to life in the Slovenian space. You're destroying them even more with this proposal. It changes to para-national institutions because they will all be paid from the state budget, not directly from citizens through specific foundations. That's what you're doing. To make a typical corporate state, on top of the political elite and alongside their ties in mandatory chambers and paid civil society that makes you an electoral campaign. I can't support this. That's the law. Reduction of specific facilities to enable citizens to finance civil society through foundations. There's no such thing. You can't. And, of course, the exemption of capital gains, especially those gathered at Forum 21. This is a forecast of this income, this income law. Thank you so much for that! I'm going against such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u218	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. In a situation where the state is increasingly indebted when the public financial situation is getting worse, when the whole state apparatus is just studying how to extricate a Slovenian man, which is commonly known, the government has done a good study in this pre-election period, a backward demagog draft law which is in fact a law for the rich and is directed towards the average Slovenian. This law sends a completely wrong, unacceptable message to young families who want more children. This law is actually a conspiracy against the Slovenians against the further improvement of the demographic situation in that country. It introduces a number of new taxes, but of course it is all wrapped up in cellophane, as if it would be for the good of the country. The taxation of Slovenian citizens will also increase on the basis of this law and this law is therefore unacceptable. The government should start saving up bankruptcy, not that bankruptcy managers will drive a billion tolars into the pockets of some! And the Moroccan Members were unable to vote in favour of the debate on these abuses! They didn't. They didn't vote against it. This is outrageous. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u220	It's not a controversy, it's an explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u221	For the tens of thousands of workers who voted for you, you are not even prepared to discuss their rights as bankruptcy creditors. You have all voted against this and in this way you also vote for the current law, which is against Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u222	Comrade Jerovšek, this is an explanation for the voice, not the controversy, I must warn you and everyone else. This part of the point cannot be depreciated. Comrade Shirtz, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Of course, fellow Members are looking in the Income Act, which is proposed, for partial disruptive elements, such as the issue of the future and the deterioration of civil society in the context of this law, or looking for issues of state waste, while noting that it is a law that will bring only new and new benefits. However, no one or few people in today's debate have pointed out three essential elements, which is why I will also be at first reading, taking into account the comments made today, support this law. And these three essential elements, if you didn't listen carefully to the Minister's presentation, they are. The law, as it is, relieves socially weaker layers. In addition, it brings a more even distribution of the tax burden and introduces European comparable standards and institutions. And that is to be taken into account. In addition, the law introduces general relief from the current 11% to 17% of the average annual salary and thus, clearly, significantly relieves taxpayers of lower income. The other measures that I wanted to emphasise are important and in the interest of my own too short-sighted emphasis, however, do not overlook what this law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u224	Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to today's law, I would say that I would support the law even though we have received as many e-mails as possible, where citizens and citizens have asked us to vote against this law. It is true that large families with four, five or more children will be affected because this relief will be slightly reduced, but it seems problematic that this measure will affect 0.9% of the debtors, that is 2795 debtors, and we will be able to compensate for this failure with other family policy measures, such as a special allowance for large families. I would like to say, however, that for various family benefits and parental benefits in national and local budgets in 2003, they booked and earmarked as much as 113 billion tolars, almost 50% of the total income realised. Therefore, I think that with some additional measures within the framework of family policy, we could achieve that more families will not be deprived, and that is why I will support this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u226	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you, President. I will support the proposed Income Act at first reading. I am sure that I will also be followed by fellow Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Each government coalition is considered to be at some risk of deciding and going to such an important law in the last year before the elections. This was the commitment of this coalition and it is right to fulfill it. It is true that in the debate today, both in the coalition and in the opposition, we had some comments on some of the solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that we will be able to find some improvements in the framework of the coalition arrangements, but I am particularly sure that we will find the right solution for the benefits for families with a greater number of children. And there were some other solutions that I'm sure we'll find solutions with the cooperation of Minister Dr. Marble. However, the law is a good law globally, it is a European law-oriented law and it will also withstand peer reviews in comparable countries. And we have to be correct, we have our first reading ahead of us. If there are concerns about certain solutions, then it is necessary to come up with proposals, with amendments. And if you fail at that time, then you can strongly oppose it and say that you disagree with the law. From this I will also support the proposed law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u228	Please, Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm surprised we're excited about this law. I cannot understand this, because this law is a mirage, full of beautiful words written in law and explanation, or at the speech of the Minister. I've always lived in confidence, and I've said it here many times before, when the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Rob, was a minister of finance you can never trust. Because they're here to manipulate government finances, no matter what government you have. The figure is somehow undemocratic or democratic only by appearance, the less you can believe. Let's say all this stuff about foundations and so on. If you have little insight into the international world, you will see that work is done differently in other countries. But if, of course, we want to be provincial and planned, then that's the way it is. Let me just say one more thing. For all the explanations of this law, there is no data to be relied on. It's not like that. And then how can they believe that this will really do what the government promises will equalize citizens before the tax law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u230	My friend Tuck. There's someone else up behind you. Oh, please. Let's get my buddy Tucky first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you. I will not support the law because it contains two fundamental errors that are unlikely to be rectified by amendments. First of all, it's a system where it's kind of tiny, not to say, just in cosmetics, it fixes the situation of those who have the lowest wages. They're going to be very slightly burdened. Their income will be slightly lower than before. The income of those with the highest wages will be significantly lower. At the same time, only single workers will feel this reduction in income, those without children, those who have children, will have higher, significantly higher income. Another error that is unlikely to be rectified by the amendment is that reliefs are revalued in line with price increases rather than with wage increases. I hope that one day the situation will pass where the lowest wages or minimum wages are such that a man, a worker, cannot survive alone, let alone his family. And that wages will increase and grow faster than prices. But in this case, the relief will not grow according to wages, but only according to prices, means that there will be an increasing burden on wages. This is as we would say, we will cement the economic status of workers today, and if they have higher wages, relatively higher wages, we will burden them more. I don't think this is a law worth further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u232	A colleague of Tisovic's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are aware or aware that tax reform is necessary. The state must also have a certain amount of money for its function to function as it should. However, with this law, the country is starting to collect less money for those people who actually have less money, and not where there is a lot of money, on capital, even though there is less of it, but there is more of it, so I cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u234	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! It is true that this law in some distant future is likely to offer, if you say in jargon, a finger, but in the back of our head it certainly is tearing our hand apart. This is definitely because its effects, when, of course, it is possible to enforce this law, which will not be until next year, will, in other words, be far removed because of the incentives that are already taking place. That's definitely true. Already, there are encouraging and harmonising certain prices with some European comparable prices and the impact of these minimum concessions, because we know, on the other hand, that we are taxing or taxing other revenues, as well as subsidies for farmers and so on, where tax coverage will be significantly higher again, so that the second year this law is actually in force, the effects of increasing other prices will be totally eliminated. And then how to justify the adoption of this law, which will only apply during the period when the effects will no longer exist, is actually questionable, and for that reason I will not support this law for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u236	Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! To say that a tenth of the income collected is a trifle is a first-class demagogy. And so much, exactly 35 billion, commits the bill to taxpayers with the lowest income. Therefore, I will support this conclusion that the law is a suitable basis because the law is not a pre-election move. If it were a pre-election move, they would have taken it in a different form long ago. At the same time, I think [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u238	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u239	At the same time, the proposed law is a fruit of long-term negotiation and negotiation with different stakeholders. I therefore consider that, in view of the many comments, it is also possible to complement it in such a way that it is in the best interest of all those who are in favour of continuing the tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u240	Now I think we can go to the vote. We decide on the proposal for a decision that the law at first reading is suitable for further consideration. 69 attended, 43 and 24 versus. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] The decision was adopted. The law will be allocated to the competent working body. This point is closed. The following point 3 of the agenda deals first with the proposal for a law on conditional access to protected electronic services. Here too, we will consider or decide that the proposal is appropriate for further consideration. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The Slovenian national party will support the proposal by asking at the same time and calling on colleagues and colleagues to study Article 8 again with the government, as we have called for. I think that Article 8 which speaks of criminal sanctions on which we will prepare amendments on behalf of the Slovenian National Party for the second reading. Please take these amendments into account, because it is in fact the substantive importance of protecting electronic services, i.e. the proposal we will once again support in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u242	We can decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting! 71 present. 55 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] The law will be allocated to the mother's labour body, as the decision has received support. I conclude this point and move on to the next 4th point; this is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the criminal code. We have amendments to Articles 1, 6, 20 and 35. We'll decide in a row, as I've just stated. We will first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. 70 present, 33 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment was not accepted. Let's go to Article 6. Amendment of a group of Members with first-signed Dusan Vukko. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We vote on Article 6. 71 in attendance, 55 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. With Article 20, the New Slovenia Group is proposing an amendment, and we decide on it. 70 present, 23 to 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 35. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote. 71 present, 22 for, 43 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. Proposer of the law, Minister, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u243	Mr President, since only one article has been adopted in addition to the draft law, i.e. less than one-tenth of the articles, I propose that, on the basis of Article 138, the assembly conducts a third hearing at this meeting of the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u244	The proposal for a decision was clear. It is the application of Article 138. If this decision is not opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members present, we will take a decision to hold a third reading of the bill at this meeting. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 47 in and 20 in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] The decision is adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday 30.3 after the end of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. The amendments to this Article may be tabled by a qualified proposer before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This point has been interrupted. Here we go on the 13th item of the agenda, this is the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code. We have a proposal for a decision by the competent working body, which reads: "A proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code shall be adopted." Barovic withdrew his explanation, so the vote is under way. There's a vote. 58 attending [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] Yeah, we've never had a situation like this before, just for a second, please, we've never had a situation like this before. It is true that Comrade Barovic raised his hand, that I said he would vote, it was for a short time. It is essential to express the political will of the National Assembly, and I will put it to the vote again. However, I must say that I ask my colleagues and colleagues, and I always wait long enough to see if the time limit for explanations of vote has been raised to do so, if possible, quickly. We are once again deciding on a proposal for a decision to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 195 of the Bond Code. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're making a decision. 69 present, 67 for and none against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted and this point is concluded. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. President, is he all right? Comrade Lavrinz. My friend Lavrnic! We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to the proposal for an authentic interpretation text. We have a decision to make. Yeah, yeah. Okay. We're voting. 67 present, 63 for and none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Authentic explanation, too. Now this point is closed. At the 14th point, before we move on to the electoral issue, we still have the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The competent working body shall propose a decision which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 137 of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act shall be adopted. We're voting. We're voting. 69 present, 59 for, 1 against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to a proposal for an authentic interpretation text, which is being amended in full. We're making a decision. 66 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The Committee also proposes an amendment to the title. We're voting. Text for editorial correction of the title. 62 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] This concludes this point. We are now at the 38th, last stop of the day in this session. These are mental-voluntary matters. I'll ask for your attention. May I have your attention, please? Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider four proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, to elect a candidate for a national representative in Eurojust, to elect an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body, and to propose a president for the appointment of a President of the Court of Auditors, and then four other proposals by the Judicial Council for the election of candidates for judicial office. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. In particular, I would like to inform you that the secret votes on the proposals of the President of the Republic will be held at the same time, following closed discussions on all four proposals. We will first proceed to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly, under Article 6 of the Law on the application of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, that Prof. Dr. Mark Ilešić be elected judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. In fact, I will repeat a question which my colleagues have already raised at a meeting of the Election Commission and which we have not received a convincing answer. This question, however, is how does the applicant explain this proposal, in which this proposal is better than the other two candidates, given that the proposed candidate, who is not aware of any professional shortcomings, does not nevertheless have the international experience to qualify for this function. Two candidates who have fallen out have this experience. Moreover, even at home, they performed much higher judicial functions, both of which were constitutional judges, one even the President of the Constitutional Court. Of these three candidates, two of whom had all the qualifications, the one who did not have those qualifications came forward. That is why we expect in the course of this debate that the applicant, as well as the representative of those bodies, should be here, who gave opinions, of course, which were not mandatory and which helped to make this candidate come forward, this position is explained. Otherwise, this procedure has some drawback - we are voting here, taking responsibility for this decision, but we are not aware of the answers to the questions and dilemmas that are being raised. So please, once again, to explain why of the three candidates, two of whom have already had or have had international experience, one of whom has not, came forward precisely to those who do not have this experience.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? My friend Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will adopt the proposal for the election of the Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Dr Mark Ilešič. In the procedure, Dr Marko Ilešič received a positive opinion from the government, as did two other applicants. In a judicial council, which is one of the authorities that gives an opinion to the State Election Assembly, only Dr. Marko Ilešič received a positive opinion from three candidates. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have decided that, according to the professional criteria and professional references, we do not support the candidacy and it seems to us that there is no political evaluation in this place for such a judicial function in the international institution and it would not be appropriate. We support the proposal and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u248	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u249	Just for a little while. However, I did not understand that anyone would have raised the political criteria in the debate so far. Out of the procedure [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u250	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u251	I want to base my assessment on the fact that the question of procedural nature has been raised. And as I understand this procedure, the Council of Justice, by secret ballot between the three candidates, has decided for one candidate. If this information is correct, Members will be important to us. Perhaps a representative of the proposer could confirm this. The second question, which is very important to me personally, will also be an argument as to how we will decide, but the following. Only Slovenia from the countries entering the European Union does not yet have the proposed name in this place. Only the city of Slovenia is empty. And the fact that the proposed candidate, as has been said, has no doubt, with very convincing professional references, particularly in the area of economic law, bond law, transport law, intellectual property law and international private law, and much when the court decides on this issue, that is to say, the issue that Prof. Dr. Marko Ilešič is very well aware of, will be the one that will direct me personally to support this proposal. However, I think it would be right for us to get an answer to our colleagues' very clear question before we decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u252	This concludes the presentation of the views of the submitted parliamentary groups. I have two colleagues for the debate, colleague Školč and Anderlič. Any of them want a word? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u253	In a situation where there is a secret vote, there is a way of discussing how someone is actually going to vote, an unappreciative matter, and I also find it inappropriate. It is for this reason that a secret vote is envisaged that each Member decides as it thinks it is best and that without control and without suggestions and without anything else it will do so. Such situations, when there is a secret vote, are few in the National Assembly. Therefore, I find it totally inappropriate and unnecessary to discuss why someone was not proposed as a candidate or even possible, why someone was not among the candidates made available by the President of the State to choose from them a candidate to propose to the National Assembly. On this list, it could be, either after self-declaration or upon the application of the relevant institutions, which are qualified to propose candidates for a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, a number of eminent experts, experts we certainly have in Slovenia. But that didn't happen. The matter of choice is always in such a situation, and also this time the President of the State, after extensive consultation both with the professional public, with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well as on the basis of the opinion of the Judicial Council and after discussions with the presidents or representatives and leaders of the parliamentary groups - as I know, none of the leaders of the parliamentary groups expressly opposed the proposal for this candidacy - decided to propose one of the candidates. Or someone would like to see that someone else, another name, could be on this spot, on this candidacy. In this case, however, it does not. I believe the situation is very simple. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we elected the President of the Supreme Court, where support was provided in the broadest sense. But not because everyone would think that the best candidate would be interested in this or them political party, but because the candidate convinced the judiciary, convinced the profession, convinced those who had something to say in the process of running. Finally, he convinced all those Members and Members that we had decided to support him and to elect him in secret elections. I think the situation is quite similar. The President of the State elected one of the three candidates on the basis of broad consultations. And this one's right in front of us. I think it is right to make a statement about this candidate, not to ask why someone else is not proposed, but to ask why someone who was not among the three has not been proposed as a candidate for a judge of the Court in the European Community. That is why I think it is completely depressed and misleading, and even, I would say, a discussion that offends the institution of the President of the State, which has done everything with the constitution and the law of procedure and has come before the National Assembly with the candidate. I would like to discuss the proposal for a candidacy. And this candidacy, in my opinion, is duly justified. The candidate has the right references, so I'm going to go to a secret vote, and there's no doubt how I'm going to vote. However, I do not want any discussions and no explanations as to why any of the following could be a candidate is not proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u254	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u255	Thank you very much. From [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u256	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u257	a debate that has already taken place in the framework of a mandate-holder's commission, and also here today, can be discussed in two ways. [[...]] One is what the mandate-holder committee had to decide on or would have to decide on, and this is the question of determining a judge for that court in this case. The second is, of course, the question of whether the President of the Republic could have acted differently. It is difficult for any Member to answer the question of whether the President of the Republic could have acted differently. I suppose and also believe that the representatives of the Office do not have the authority to doubt that the President acted on his best judgment and conscience. There are situations that allow the President to propose more candidates for one seat, and there are situations where the President must offer one candidate or candidate. As far as Professor Ilešić is concerned, it is worth saying that this explanation we have received is based on the opinions received by the President in consultation with the leader of the groups of Members. This report does not show that anyone would object to Professor Ilešič. And secondly, it is based on the opinion of the Judicial Council, which, as far as this candidacy is concerned, was uniform. Why the President did not propose the other two candidates in this context and it is not so important, but it is only necessary to say that different courts and different courts, I will say, "institutions" of the judiciary in the international community are not always, by their working powers, and are completely comparable. This means, in my opinion, that if someone is a specialist, for example, for constitutional law does not mean that he can come into, I don't know, one of these institutions, that he is automatically competent to resolve maritime law disputes and so on. If we are looking at this particular function for which Slovenia is proposing a candidate, then it is true to say that this explanation implies that Mr Ilešič is familiar with civil, economic and international private law, which is, I will say, the two key areas in which the court is being held. This is not comparable to what we know as the Venice Commission, where another candidate was involved, or, say, those courts that judge human rights, because that means other specialist knowledge, as we will immediately have in the next situation a candidate for one of these institutions, where I think she has all the expertise that they qualify for, and the question is, if we have them for what we are currently discussing. That is how these candidature judgements - I assume the President has taken this into account - also to see what an individual court is doing. And that this - I apologize if anyone is offended - naive notion that anyone goes from Slovenia, is automatically suitable for all functions outside of Slovenia and no one else is necessarily able to endure to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u258	Several other colleagues and colleagues have applied for the floor, so I must explain to everyone that I cannot give this word because they have not been declared for discussion in advance. The representative of the Office of the President of the Republic also wishes to provide an explanation. Please, Dr. Nahtigal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u259	President, very briefly, because I believe that everything has been practically told. Regarding the candidates' references, the dean of the Faculty of Law, Prof. Ilešič, however, in his rich opus, would also like to highlight his activities in the field of international legal activities, namely, Professor Ilešič, also the arbitral tribunal of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris, the arbitrator of the ICSIT International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes at the World Bank, the arbitrator of the permanent arbitral tribunal, namely the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. As I announced earlier, we will vote together on all four candidates, in four secret ballots. We will now proceed to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a national representative to Eurojust. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to Article 6 of the law on the nomination of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts to the National Assembly, that Mrs Barbara Brezigar be elected as a candidate for national representative. He wants to give a representative of the office any explanation? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] My colleague Tsukati has been reported for word. He wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u261	Although some feel that in the case of secret ballots it is not worth discussing or worth discussing the candidates, I would nevertheless like to take the business opportunity to speak up on the position of our parliamentary group. This is a candidate who is relatively well-known. I must also say that, however assessed her work outside of her profession, she has nevertheless experienced recognition as honest, correct, as committed to her work and as a person on whom we can rely and who will certainly not be doing us any shame in Europe, but will be more to our honor. I am also pleased with some concerns or remarks that we will not take into account the political views of the individual candidate when it comes to the examination of candidates and the election of candidates, since these are other categories of expertise. I also believe that it will actually fulfil the task that Europe expects of it as we do, because it will be a national representative and in some way will also represent our colours in this institution. Surely it would be good to remember before that that we, as a party, are in some way, not to say, sad, but we certainly think that this is some loss for Slovenia, but on the other hand we believe that it will likely experience a different environment, a better environment, such an environment that is more friendly to these basic human qualities, that is, political independence, independence, self-reliance, honesty, maybe a more friendly environment than it has ever been in Slovenia. Of course, we will support her candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u262	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Although two candidates were first nominated for this town, one of them resigned, and Mrs Barbara Brezigar was the only possible candidate for the President of the country, which he also proposed to us for election as national representative in Eurojust. Colleagues and fellow Members of the United List assure me and I believe that we will support this proposal. It is probably not necessary to stress in this respect that we knew and counted in our decision-making on this support that Mrs Barbara Brezigar has been very politically active in the second political field in Slovenia in recent years, as she was also the Minister of Government, Dr Andrej Bajuk and the Presidential candidate, with the support of two political parties. This fact did not disturb us, on the contrary, we felt it was right that, in the course of our professional functions, political candidatures were disregarded and we would be pleased if this would apply to all political parties for all the candidates proposed for four places, three for positions in international institutions and one for the President of the Court of Auditors. I mentioned the political criteria for the reason that I was alone on the Commission on Mandate-Elective Issues and I knew and heard that the political criteria at the time were very much present with representatives of serious opposition parties. We therefore welcome the fact that the President of the State is on this occasion a number of candidates, more than that, he also took into account the different political affiliations of these candidates and that he in particular had the expertise of this candidate. The formal conditions that she has fulfilled and met by the candidate assume the possibility of such an election and, as I said, my colleagues and colleagues from my party will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u264	Comrade Squirrel, if he wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u265	Thank you very much. High Prosecutor Barbara Brezigar is a good candidate for a national representative for an important position in The Hague. The president of the state only had her candidacy. We will support her in the parliamentary group. Her professional competences are very important, including human virtues. But I can add that the choice for political activity is a free choice of individuals. Political activity is an integral activity, a normal component of human life, and it is certainly this decision that someone who has been active in politics then decides and enters a world called the professional world, that it actually normalizes views in Slovenian society on such decisions and we understand this as a good sign. This will also be an additional reason for Mrs Barbara Brezigar to receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u266	I've got four MPs registered. Comrade Jerovsk is not in the hall. My friend Skull wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I would say that in this case, too, it is necessary to draw the same starting point as before with Mr Mark Ilešič, to believe that he has chosen a candidate who meets the criteria and, above all, to believe that, not as said by his colleague Potrč, he has calculated these things with some political views, but that he has chosen these things in this candidacy as well as in other candidates. If we vote with the assumption that at some point we can call off political engagement, I will say, my friends or villains, then it will be significantly easier to decide on these things than if we introduce this computer into recruitment. From this point of view, it seems to me that this candidacy is also a test of our tolerance, and it is not particularly an easy test, and of course I have supported this candidacy on the Commission's mandate-electing committee, and I do not think there is any reservation that we can support it even when we get these ballots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u268	Comrade Lavrnic, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then he's Anderlich's last friend. Do you want to? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We have a third hearing, and this is the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body. For this place, the President of the Republic proposes to elect the National Assembly of the University Professor, Dr. Lovr Šturm. Does the representative of the office want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The President of the Election-Mandatory Commission? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Sušnik applied for the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are pleased with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovska. We are pleased with his election and support his proposal to propose ad hoc personal data judge in the common supervisory body of the European Community bodies a university professor Dr. Lovr Šturm, regular university professor and director of the Institute for the Protection of Human Rights in Ljubljana. Prof. Dr. Lovro Šturm is a candidate with outstanding human and personality qualities, he is a doctor of legal science with extensive experience in the field of the legality of administration, constitutional protection of human rights, legal protection of personal data and legal protection of the environment. Prof. Dr. Lovro Štrum has worked as an expert and consultant in a number of respected international institutions. He was elected a member of the Constitutional Court in 1990 and served as a constitutional judge for eight years. He was also President of the Constitutional Court in 1997 and 1998 and also Minister of Education and Sport. Dr. Lovro Šturm is the author of numerous books and articles in the field of public science. All members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote in favour of the election of the Unions because of these qualities and the candidate's knowledge of the field of human rights. Prof. Dr. Lovra Šturma for an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the European Union’s common supervisory body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u270	Mr Školč and Mr Anderlič applied for the debate. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The debate is closed. We have one last decision to make. The proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors is under consideration. The President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes Mr Andre Engelman for this position. Does the representative of the office want a word? He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[No, no, ……]] The three representatives of the parliamentary groups wanted the floor. My friend Janez Janša is the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u271	Today, the National Assembly will decide for the third time on the candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, and we can say that the proposal from round to round is worse. The fact is that anyone proposed by the acting minister or by the State Secretary of the Executive or by a comparable function would be inappropriate, irrespective of name and surname or worldwide orientation. To propose for such an institution that is supposed to oversee public spending in all public finances, someone who has previously worked in this area, which means that he will practically examine himself in the new function, because there are possible audits a few years ago, is plagued by the logic of the functioning of the rule of law. This is about something that should not have happened even in order, let alone in the actual proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u272	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u273	So we have a government coalition that has broken two proposals by the President of the State so far, it has almost a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. None of these candidates for this government coalition have apparently been clientalist enough, biased enough. So now we have a third vote, when the President of the Republic has finally proposed someone who is now going from the warm chair of the executive branch to the very top of the supervisory authority, in public finances where hundreds of billions are flowing. Whatever this President of the Court of Auditors will say in the coming years, and wherever his decisions will be chosen, of course, they will face dilemmas, such and other controversy, there will be suspicion of bias. There will be actions objectively where the Court of Auditors will have to decide in one way or another, including border situations. Because of history, because of the work in the executive branch, at the very top of the executive branch, any such decision will be disputed by anyone who can oppose it, anyone. And the same criteria would apply if there were any other government, and if there were anyone, regardless of political orientation, world view, gender, race, religion or anything. It is simply an impossibility from the top of the executive branch to appoint someone to a key supervisory function in the country, regardless of professional qualities, regardless of anything else. That's actually inappropriate. Therefore, I propose that we just take the final exam at this last point, although of course this is ungrateful and we will have to make another decision. As has already been said, any candidate who has been proposed - the first candidate has been the farthest from the executive authority and has received the least vote, the second candidate has sometimes been Secretary of State, has been absent recently, has received a little more votes. But the one that comes from the warm headquarters of the Secretary of State in your government will obviously be elected. However, in the event that Mr Engelman falls, you will probably propose to the Minister of Finance to this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u274	My friend Potts has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u275	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleagues and colleagues, we support the proposal of the President of the State, Dr Janez Drnovska, to elect Andrey Engelman, President of the Court of Auditors, a university graduate economist. As has been said, this is a third public call. Seven candidates and candidates were registered. At the meeting with the Prime Minister, we have announced that there are other candidates or candidates for us, but also Mr Andrey Engelman, who was finally proposed by the President. For a long time, Mr Engelman has worked in the field of public finances for many years. For us, that's positive. He was also particularly involved in the design and use of state budget funds, and he knows this very well, although in the last few years he was working on another government business that had no direct business with public finances and years ago. We are convinced that he meets all the professional criteria and that it is extremely unfair for him to be challenged by any moral quality in the case of other superlatives that have already been said today. We are confident that he has them and that, if elected by the National Assembly, he will be able to act properly and honestly as President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u276	This was the last debate. Do colleagues of school and Anderlich want a word? My friend Anderlich doesn't want to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u277	See, the position presented by colleague Janaš is only to be challenged in some way, at least in two points. My colleague Janš says that I should be more precise so that the president should not propose to anyone in executive power. How wide does this mean that he has not fully defined himself, but in fact he could hypothetically find anyone who has used the money from the budget in a situation so that he does not think he can perform this service properly. At the very least, what would happen would apply to state secretaries of some kind, I'll say, super bureaucrats like we all do. What is problematic in this claim is that there is no such restriction in law. If it is not in law, it is not possible to ask the President and others, and it means some voluntary opinion which, I will say, has a different weight in its background, however, politically or otherwise. In a procedure where there are no such restrictions, I cannot ask the President to introduce an additional criterion that, say, state secretaries could not be candidates for the President of the Court of Auditors. The second statement, which, I will say, needs some observation, is the claim that the coalition has collapsed two proposals, if I understand correctly, because it is not supposed to be the current policy after a year. It's a claim that's self-disputed. In a way, it says that the President only proposed two candidates who were so independent, so self-sufficient that they would not serve the coalition. It is said that this demonic assumption by Mr Janša that prisoners will be the ruling politicians does not hold back.Therefore, in these debates, I would still plead for less paranoia and more respect for the rule of law and it will be easier for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u278	You can't get a word for the debate, Comrade Janša, because he mentioned you, colleague Školč, I am giving you an opportunity to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u279	Replica, he named me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u280	Just for an explanation. I'm asking for an explanation. Please! [[...]] Of course you can, for an explanation. Please. For an explanation of the incorrect indication. Please. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u281	I have not attributed this proposal to the President of the State. That's his third suggestion, and he's probably just suggested someone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u282	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u283	for which he received firm assurances from the executive authorities or representatives of those who rule in the national assembly to finally support him. [[...]] So he doesn't get a basket for the third time. That's what I'm [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u284	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u285	not to speak to the President of the State. [[...]] Can you say anything? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u286	Peace in the hall, please! Peace in the hall! You don't have a word. Just a colleague of Janš's for an explanation. I said, a replica in accordance with Rule of the Rules of Procedure. Please, please, please, please, please, Peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u287	Well, in short, it's unworthy that Mr. Skolcz says, let's act legally, and everything will be fine. No law provides that State secretaries should not be proposed as the President of the Court of Auditors. It's the other way around. No law provides that state secretaries should be proposed. So it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u288	Order! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u289	It's your choice. [[...]] And because of such conduct, respected colleagues and colleagues, when you name those who are in the LDS and in the United List, when it comes to the Orions, to Sikur, to the various storage facilities that belong and ultimately to it, when it comes to the Orions, to Sikur. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u290	Order! Explanation. You have three minutes. Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u291	to steal even bankruptcy managers [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u292	There's no need for this controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u293	To those who have already lost everything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u294	Peace in the hall, please! I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u295	That's what you've brought up with this kind of policy. In the end, you even steal from the bankruptcy masses.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u296	Look, it is perfectly clear, please, that the President has assessed whether the condition has been met to allow clarification of the vote, which is what Janša has applied for. He didn't have a word for it. This is what I do, and my fellow Presidents always do. We will now proceed to the vote. To vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Election of candidate for national representative in Eurojust, election of candidate for ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the joint supervisory body and appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts and in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors on the election or appointment, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. These are colleagues of Moga, Kelemina, Yuri and colleague Areh Lavrič, and I as chairman. Does anyone object to such a proposal? If not, we'll decide on the composition of the commission. We are voting on the composition of the Commission that I have stated. 56 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, four votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word pros or cons on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. Can I please read to the end in peace that there will be no misunderstandings in the vote? In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposaling of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts and in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, each proposed candidate shall be elected or appointed, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are now moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10 p.m. It'll take 20 minutes, till 10:30. A fellow school, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u297	Dear President, it may seem strange to anyone. However, on the Commission's term of office, Comrade Jerovšek has somehow operated on information about how individual Members elect even when secret elections are held. I would ask you to ensure the full secrecy of the vote in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u298	Comrade Skull, the commission will do what it is in its power to do its job, in accordance with the rules I have told you. We'll start from 10:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Now I ask for silence so there will be no misunderstandings. The vote will begin at 10 p.m. and will end at 10:30 p.m. Now I'm asking the electoral commission to join me in room 217 to give me the material. At approximately 10:50 p.m., I'll announce the results.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-23-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u299	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats in the hall. I will inform the National Assembly of the outcome of the vote for candidate or candidate. We have some decisions to make, so I ask everyone to return to the hall, because we will continue with the point of election and appointment. I will read the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote as a candidate for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 March 2004. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, none were invalid and 73 ballots were valid. 46 members voted in favour and against 27. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members, he was elected as Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, Prof. Dr. Marko Ilesic. On behalf of the Members and Members, I sincerely congratulate him on his election! Minutes on the outcome of the vote for candidate for national representative in Eurojust. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 March 2004. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, two were invalid, 71 valid. 30 members voted in favour and 41 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mrs Barbara Brezigar was not elected by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members to this post as candidate for national representative in Eurojust. Minutes on the determination of the outcome of the vote for ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 March 2004. 73 ballots were distributed, so many were delivered, one was invalid, and 72 ballots were valid. 34 Members and Members voted against 38 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of this vote, he was not elected by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members as a candidate for an ad hoc judge, Prof. Dr. Lovro Šturm. Finally, the minutes on the conclusion of the vote for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 March 2004. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 were also delivered, one was invalid, 72 valid. 39 Members and Members voted in favour, against 33 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome, Mr Andrej Engelman was not appointed President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I will inform the President of the Republic of the results. We're moving on now. Peace in the hall! We're continuing our session. May I ask for peace in the hall, Comrade Jerovšek? Comrade Sok! I'm asking for peace in the hall! There's no debate. We are in favour of the motions for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice has submitted four proposals for election to the National Assembly for a judicial function. Peace in the hall! The Council of Justice is a national assembly [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] Peace in the hall, please! [[...]] Comrade Pukšič, can you please allow us to decide? The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office, namely, the courts of the three District Courts in the District Court in Ljubljana and Maribor and the Judge for Offences in the Judge for Jesenica's Offences. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do any of the applicants want to discuss the word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll move on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magistrate Valerija Jelen-Kosa to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 47 present, 43 for and none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Mrs. Kossi was elected to this place. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Nina Kodra-Balantič to the district court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. We're voting. May I have your attention in the Chamber? We're in the middle of a vote. 52 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] Mrs. Balantich has been elected to this place. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Melite Puhr to the district court seat of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. 52 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted, and the lady is appointed to the Court of Justice. Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Simone Ferjan to the court seat of the judge for the offences before the judge for the misdemeanours of Jesenica. We're voting. 52 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] This Decision is also adopted. The lady is appointed to a court of law. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 35th meeting of the choir. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. Have a nice night.
