ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, all present. Today is the last day of this meeting of the National Assembly, 42nd Extraordinary Meeting. I think that we have done so well now, relatively well at hand, and that today we can not expect a successful conclusion to the session too late. But we'll start with 30. It's a day's work. It's a mental-voluntary thing. It is a matter of informing the National Assembly of the resignation of five ministers by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, ministers have an opportunity, if they so wish, to explain their resignation. Some people will do it, some people won't. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Rop informed me that they are: Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin, Minister without a Resource, in charge of European affairs, Dr. Janez Potočnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Franci Booth, Minister of Justice, Mag. Ivan Bizjak and Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Preseknik resigned from ministerial office. Three ministers asked me to explain their resignation before the National Assembly, because there is no discussion. Which one of you gentlemen wants to be first? Minister Mag. Bizjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Everything under the sun has its end and is aware of this truth, it is not particularly difficult when, for example, the performance of the minister's duties expires a few months earlier than it would have been in line with the duration of such a function. The reason for the resignation that I have the right to explain here, of course, is simple. As the party that proposed me as Minister, the Slovenian People's Party, ceased to be a member of the government coalition, the reasons were given for me to make myself available to the place on which I was appointed to resign from the post of Minister of Justice. If we looked at a level deeper for reasons, then perhaps a little simplistic could say the following. That, therefore, the reason for the derogation is the difference in the answer to the question: may the decision of the Constitutional Court be the basis for the issue of specific individual decisions. However, there has been so much said about this issue in this house in the past days that, of course, it would not continue to explore this issue. Above all, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am satisfied with the view of the work done, with a view to these three years and almost five months, which I served as Minister of Justice. Satisfied with both what has been done at the legislative level - including and in particular in cooperation with the National Assembly, i.e. with you - as well as with what has been done on important topics such as the modernisation of justice, such as the resolution of problems in Slovenian justice and the like. Here I would particularly like to thank all those in this house, in this Chamber, who, despite many resistances to any change in the field of justice, have come to realize early enough that there are no changes in justice without change, and who have supported the proposals that we have sent to the National Assembly. I think that this has allowed us to make significant movements, both in terms of the key issue of the relationship and the relationship between the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government, as well as the control of the functioning of the judiciary itself and so on. So thank you all and everyone for their good cooperation. I also thank the co-workers in the ministry, without which these achievements would not have been achieved, and of course also the colleagues in the government and the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We all wish you the best in your further private and public work. [[....]] [[Let's hear it.]] Please, Mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members. I have also assessed since the first day, as perfectly understandable and logical, that insofar as the party that proposed me to the post of Minister is no longer in the government, there is no reason or political logic for him to continue his work in the government. So I think that this is some European practice and something that I think everyone needs to be able to do if it is in a situation where our party, which has somehow been excluded from the coalition, is in a position to do so. I thank the National Assembly for all these years of cooperation. I think we have done a lot together, especially for Members of the former coalition as well as for opposition Members. I thank my colleagues in the government, including the two Prime Ministers. In these years, there has also been a lot of hearing for projects that have been somewhat difficult and even more problematic at times. I am alone with my work done at the Ministry, pleased, in fact, I will say that I am very proud of many achievements. After seven years, I'm leaving this department. I think we have completely changed the way we support agriculture. In the negotiations, we have managed to bring a good half of all the money that Slovenia will be able to use after the entry into the European Union, in particular the area of rural development, due to these successful negotiations that we have conducted, it will receive great support this year twice as much as it has been in previous years. Last but not least, we have achieved two fundamental objectives: the first is that this country can trade normally after entering the European Union, and Slovenia will be one of the few countries that will not have any restrictions on trade in any food, or with all that we eat and drink. This is a great success and a very positive fact for the Slovenian food industry and for Slovenian food producers. And the others. In this week that's coming, we're going to be accrediting the paying agency. We will be the first country to do so, and the only one that will likely succeed before May 1st, of all the ten we are entering the European Union. I think I'll do it before the new minister arrives. And last but not least: these years have also been quite lively. It was necessary to respond quickly in view of the many events that have also resulted from everything that has been happening in the last 50, 60 years in the world in contravention of nature. Thus, we were forced to face challenges, problems, and illnesses daily. I think that we have managed to manage them well enough in some way, in accordance with consumer requirements, so that I think that the Slovenian consumer, for whom I was also responsible, can rightly be convinced that he eats at least as healthy food as other consumers, which is, after all, very important. It's clear to me that the world doesn't start and end with you coming and going. So I'll be happy to wish my successor that he would continue his work where I have finished him. And I believe he'll be successful, too. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] We also wish you all the good in your further work. [[...]] Thank you for your cooperation. Please, Minister Presecnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will not, of course, repeat the reasons for this act, for this resignation. Perhaps I would just add that the individual projects carried out by each ministry are not party projects, projects by the ministry or even projects by the minister, but that they are government projects, that is why you are without coordination, without coordination of the work of this work and of course I cannot present such a work, and therefore this derogation statement. I wouldn't bother you anymore because you have a lot of other work to do today. In this place, I would just like to thank for the good cooperation of the entire national assembly, both Members and Members, the leadership of the National Assembly, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the professional services, in particular the legislation in the National Assembly, and of course all those who are concerned in this House, that this legislation, which is, is being adopted and that important guidance is being adopted, is being adopted, which is important for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, allow me to thank all my colleagues and fellow ministers for their good cooperation in these three years, both the Heads of Government, Drnovšku and Mag. Robbery, and his associates and associates at the Ministry. At the same time, of course, I wish my successor much success in further work and much success in completing this mandate at this time when Slovenia joins the European Union. Well, thanks again for your cooperation and good luck. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. All good. Now I'd like to ask you to listen. The National Assembly, in accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, finds for the first time that the Minister of Economy Dr. Thea Petrin has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister of Economy. Until the appointment of a new minister, he must carry out ongoing business. Secondly, that the Minister without a staff in charge of European affairs, Dr Janez Potočnik, has resigned and has ceased to serve as the Minister without a department in charge of European affairs. Until the appointment of a new minister, he must carry out ongoing business. Thirdly, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Franci Booth, resigned and ceased to serve as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Until the appointment of a new minister, he must carry out ongoing business. For the fourth time, he's the Justice Minister, mag. Ivan Bizjak has resigned from his post as Minister of Justice. Until the appointment of a new minister, he shall carry out ongoing operations. Fifthly, that Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Persečnik, has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister of Transport. Until the appointment of a new minister, he shall carry out ongoing operations. I thank everyone once again for their cooperation and wish them the best in their work. This point is closed. We're going to break 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON Secondly, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the safety legislation in rail transport. On Monday, the assembly held a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the draft law and decided to define the parent committee for the amendments tabled. Does the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think that the Committee's report on the expected withdrawal of the amendments is, of course, unnecessary, so I would like to come forward if we could further explain the proposal for the withdrawal of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Do government representatives want a word? No, no, no. It would now be the turn of the debate and decision on the articles and the amendments tabled, but I have a notice here as well as you, and I could read it: Since the Slovenian People's Party's Group has withdrawn the amendments tabled and there have been no other amendments to the bill, the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law, decide at the next meeting of the assembly. This concludes this point. Yeah, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON Secondly, a proposal for a law on the business rehabilitation of the Slovenian railway D. O.O. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the additional presentation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We have before us a law that is the last in a series of laws that the government has drawn up in the field of the reorganisation of Slovenian railways. It must be the most important of its contents, since it combines all the financial obligations of the Slovenian Railway Holding. A green light will be lit for the adoption of this law for the final transformation. Opportunities will be put in place for the registration and creation of subsidiaries, so-called nuclear companies, and the holding company will be burdened with financial obligations. The clear objectives set at the beginning of the transformation of the railway system in the Republic of Slovenia, namely increased mobility, reduced pressure on taxpayers and increased cost-effectiveness of subsidiaries, will become an act. Even today, with the efforts of all the participants, positive changes are visible, and the cooperation of the administration, employees, ministries and you, Members, is sure that this path will continue. The law has its basis in the law on the transformation of the Slovenian railway public undertaking, which was adopted in the National Assembly last year. Later, professional starting points were also developed, which were also presented in the National Assembly in June 2003. On the basis of all of this, this law, which actually has four basic elements: the restructuring of the credits that Slovenian railways have leased in the past, mainly for the purchase of passenger trains - this obligation is 35 billion - then the recapitalisation of 5 billion; the commitment of 5 billion, which was set up for the purchase of passenger trains and the provision of two billion human resources for the rehabilitation of personnel. The aim is to set up nuclear companies that will be set up with positive capital, with an appropriate staffing structure and with adequate resources to be able to function positively on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State of the Prince for this presentation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the President, Mr Branko Janc, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held its 54th meeting on 31 March, held a second reading of the proposed Law on the Business Rehabilitation of the Holding of Slovenian Railways, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law and legislative and legal service, representatives of the public railway agency and the Slovenski železnice Holdinga, d.o.o. took part in the meeting of the Committee. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out the shortcomings of Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 and 12. On the proposal for a law until the expiry of the deadline, the same Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, none of the qualified candidates has tabled an amendment. In accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Law and the amendment to Annex One. After the adoption of all the articles, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Group of Members, we are aware that it is necessary to fundamentally cut down on the business and restructuring of a business failure system that has been in operation for decades much after inertia and in which no specific important investment has been made, not in equipment, not in the business process, nor in personnel. Last year, in early January, we had a referendum at which citizens were confirmed by the Law on Transformation and Privatisation. The reform proposed at the time was supported by a number of statements from important political officials, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport and others explaining to citizens the importance and fate of the decision, and we were also aware of the many positive effects of transformation and privatisation at the time. There was talk of savings at the level of several clinical centres. That type of other comparisons justifying the coalition's decision on this process. And the citizens accepted this explanation. It would also have created societies. The yields are to be privatised and the rest is to be publicly owned. After a year, we face and face facts: the system is in fact needed to be financially and commercially repaired, and we are also facing a series of problems that have been hidden, removed from the public's eyes and that have not been solved. Slovenian railways have poor equipment, they use bad lines that do not allow proper integration into Pan-European railway and multimodal corridors, they have a number of bottlenecks and dangerous unprotected crossings, a type of inactive property and a poor staffing structure. All of this is an inheritance that is simply not going to be able to eliminate in a short time and there will also be recovery will not be cheap. In various forms of resources, about 50 billion tolars will have to be invested in rehabilitation in the coming years. The most difficult part of the rehabilitation will certainly be an intervention in the human resources area, as inadequately managed human resources rehabilitation can cause major social problems for individuals and families. We are therefore aware that it is important to offer the surplus an appropriate exit from the company to another company, either to the institution or to retirement under acceptable conditions. However, the government should show a similar sensitivity for employees in other sectors or companies, since, after all, the provision of social and other rights cannot be so different and so elastic. And in this area a suitable standard should be established, which would be generally applicable and applicable to firms with similar problems. We note, however, that the rehabilitation will create conditions for the privatisation of a successful part of the rail system, which will mean that in the future part of the profits will be eliminated to the new owners, thereby reducing the funds that could be allocated to cover the non-profitable part of the system. This will unnecessarily increase the burden on the state budget, which will have to take over the burdens of the public system in one way or another. Privatisation also provides an opportunity for public funds to be channelled into private accounts, as the interaction between public and private work, like Darsa, will be a business secret and hidden to the public and the Court of Auditors will have no control over the whole. Despite such an urgent intervention as we are considering today, railways will still have a long-standing and non-competitive rail network which will largely hamper the rational and efficient use of rail and other rail-related capacities, will continue to overload roads and the environment and will only be able to largely meet the Kyoto criteria through an effective investment intervention on the railway system. We do not object to the proposal for the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways in the parliamentary group, but we hope that the rehabilitation funds will indeed be spent on rehabilitation and that part of these funds will not be spent on the purchase of some superstandard passenger vehicles or on the purchase of, say, GPRS, which is so widely used and purchased by some other public companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the United List will be presented by Mr Janko Weber, whom I do not see here. Anybody else? [[No, no, ……]] The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! In the introduction of his report or programme, the applicant stated that in the new decade, the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railways entered under the burden of a strategic and income crisis and that the collapse of the system or the collapse of the system could lead to the following things: lack of market orientation, poor competition, poor structure and thus the loss of market revenues and a rise in relative costs. We also heard something like this in the words of the speaker in front of me, who talked about the fact that Slovenian railways are poorly equipped, that they have bottlenecks and that such a country must necessarily help. It is nice and right up to this point of acceptance that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes, and on the other hand, it is necessary to say that only operational loss in 2002 in this company amounted to 5.6 billion and negative operations totalled over 12 billion. The State, as the former owner or, as the owner of this institution, prepared and adopted in December 2002 a new railway law and in 2003 a law on transformation and privatisation, which had a substantial novelty, to divide the system into an operator and an authorised operator. In August 2003, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia registered or registered a holding company, formerly an undertaking of public railways. The aim of today's consideration of the bill is, therefore, to remedy the holding company, mainly according to the government in three facts. Firstly, the commitment of a holding company of 5 billion is due to come into public debt. Another time. State guarantee for 35 billion and staff restructuring costs for 2 billion Slovenian tolars. This is, of course, a government explanation, such as the government's interpretation of the history and determination of the culprit that Slovenian railways have bottlenecks, that Slovenian railways have bad trains and similar things. The easiest thing to say, of course, is that he is guilty of outdatedness, that he is guilty of narrow throats and similar things. According to our assessment, the Slovenian National Party estimates that today's story is much broader. For the first time, it must be said that this is a story that reflects how it generally works in all public companies, not just in the field of rail transport. Another time. What kind of control does the State have or is capable of carrying out? Third time. What causes the law on economic public societies, which you gladly adopted in this national assembly years ago? Fourth time. How are business going, and what are the financial flows between these transactions? In the Slovenian National Party, we have to the proposed conclusions or the content of the solutions as proposed in the material; for the first time, we take up commitments where the government only speaks in case they cannot pay themselves. But of course, I believe that we all know today that this commitment of five billion Slovenian Tolars has increased public debt. And in spite of our conduct, we accept this just as we do not know that the public debt in our country is already one of the greatest in our history at the time, that the Slovenian debt is greater than that of the Yugoslav in the former common country and where they claimed that this debt has contributed to a significant decomposition. But the fact that we owe Slovenia just as much today should be for recovery, let it be for airplanes, for whatever it is, of course, and of course nothing touches. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims State guarantee for 35 billion, of course only if the credits are not paid and, of course, without any serious analysis. Thus, according to my information, the Committee has not been informed of this in the context of the material that is ready for consideration. On the other hand, it must be said that it is only acceptable in the National Party, given that we have material that has been dealt with on the Supervisory Committee of the Holding and that we know what financial flows are, we only know that from the business cooperation of the Slovenian Railway Company d.d. and Holding of Slovenian Railways d.o.o. spend more than 42 million on legal advice in the year [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr. President, I ask you, is the time limit in spite of non-declaration? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Now I'd let you finish this speech if it was within, like, a minute. I can see you're in trouble with time, but please close up real quick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Thank you. I believe the data will be interesting for everyone. Look, so the institute that we are talking about today, which is talking about all the shortcomings of both the social system and the historical problems, and that is why it cannot be adapted - according to our assessment, the real problem is, of course, within this institution. And allow me, in the field of legal advice Slovenian Railways hire a well-known company and pay it annually over 42 million Slovenian Tolars to advise administration at all stages of transformation. Furthermore, they hire legal services in three companies. The sums of all three are millions, but only in Mitja Server’s legal office for 2000 pay 50 million, for 2001, for an additional almost 50 million and for the period 2002 50 million and that the story will not be so simple, they pay even 53 million legal services in 2003. Together in this period that I have counted, over 200 million. And besides, it's not the only law firm that works for this company, it's also Aljoša Drobnic and Miro Senica. An even more interesting story than lawyers, rather than not having their own legal office within this institute - I think, because it's a joke to the state. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Mr. Pece, I must warn you, after all, you are now going into detail. By the rules of procedure, you have five minutes since we're in second reading. I understand that you will conclude your speech now, not that you will relive with new information. So please let me finish your debate, I understand that you are somehow in the final phase and I didn't want to disturb you, but now please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u20	I will conclude, I sincerely hope that you will then give among the Members another chance, because I believe that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Next week.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u22	As much as you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2 speaks of five minutes for the presentation of the groups of Members. Mr Jurij Malovra, Slovenian People's Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. When we talk about the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways, we need to mention some of the facts that have led to this, namely the independence of Slovenia. This is one of the issues that needs to be discussed with regard to Slovenian railways and then the war in the Balkans. Until the war in the Balkans Slovenia was a kind of transit country where cargo or traffic flow from Jesenic via Ljubljana, Zagreb to the Middle East and from Kopra, River, Trieste, Italy to Central Europe. All of this has collapsed with the war in the Balkans. The cargo was almost gone, the Slovenian economy had restructured, the mass goods were no longer in Slovenia, and Slovenian railways were suddenly too large, too large and too large for this so-called Yugoslav and transit markets. Here in this National Assembly we have discussed several times the national programme of Slovenian railways, then here we have discussed the law on railways, the law on the reorganisation and business rehabilitation of railways, and now the law on safety on Slovenian railways and so on. There's something else going on here. We said a, but we didn't say b and c. The infrastructure taken over by the State is taken over by the railway infrastructure and it has leased loans in the past. Here are some solutions, taking over the liabilities of the holding company and the state guarantee, this is nothing more than restructuring these debts. In view of the fact that loans were once rented at a much more unfavourable interest rate, they will now have to be repaid at a more favourable rate, whether they will be returned by Slovenian railways or returned by the state. In this way, we will save from billions and a half to two billion on interest alone. And that's the point of this marriage. I have to say that I am also kind of glad that the country once had a hearing for railways, because it has ordered or committees to use this law to cover part of the costs of the restructuring of Slovenian railways, because railways have a considerable surplus. Here they will either go or somehow take care of those older railway workers who are in no way able to either train or somehow re-employ in any other dedicated undertaking within dedicated companies of Slovenian railways or outside. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party will support this law. And as we have announced or all of the amendments that we have originally tabled, we have also withdrawn to the good of the railways, so that the state will have to pay close attention to the legislation in question, what it says and what the railway has submitted, so that the funds, as some have previously warned, will go for the same purposes as our legislation is intended for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Branko Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you. So, in the Liberal Democracy Group, we will support that law. In this law, however, together with the introductory explanation given by the representative of the Ministry of Transport or Government, it is necessary to know that we are talking about relatively high amounts, so it does not matter how the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways will actually run. We are fully asked, even in the light of the additional opinion of the legal and legislative service, whether the rehabilitation of Slovenian Railways on the Slovenian Railway Holding will take place or whether the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railway System with all companies in the composition of the Slovenian Railways will take place. Indeed, the answer to this question will make a significant contribution to how recovery will actually take place. The success of the rescue is in the interest, I think, of the countries as a whole. No matter what the state of Slovenian railways and the reasons of which my speaker, of course, spoke, should be taken into account as a real fact of the crisis in Slovenian railways. Nevertheless, the rehabilitation itself, which is provided for at least in its personnel work, i.e. in Article 11 of this Law, of course needs further justification, and in particular an additional question is asked. In fact, the programme of human resources rehabilitation prepared by Holding Slovenian Railways or Slovenian Railways provides for 6 methods of human resources resolution. The question is whether only Slovenian railways are included in the human resources rehabilitation or whether individual ministries and governments are thought to be involved in the human resources rehabilitation. In fact, if we have adopted a new pension law that sets out more stringent retirement criteria, under certain assumptions that the state cannot early retirement, the question arises as to the solutions in these six ways of resolution, where the programme speaks of the "active resolution" of redundant workers, which is actually an abuse of the term of active resolution, since it is only a passive resolution of redundant workers, in particular through early retirement. So, in this rescue programme and in these 2 billion that the state budget for human resources rehabilitation is supposed to contribute, some active forms. We therefore appeal to the competent ministries, such as the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Economy, to prepare, together with the Slovenian Railways, appropriate programmes to ensure the active resolution of redundant workers. So, to push people into peace, there is no science and it is a shame to walk through Slovenia and teach other economic operators how to tackle the economic recovery of individual companies if they do not find the right solutions for the rehabilitation of a 100% state-owned company. As I have already said, in the absence of adequate human resources rehabilitation, we support the solutions envisaged by the programme, at least in the part that talks about restructuring some of the credits hired, recapitalisation and also taking over the debt of the credits hired for the purchase of passenger trains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Also the position of New Slovenia, Mr Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These three graphs in the material are very significant, showing what is happening with passenger transport, freight transport and infrastructure in the Slovenian Railways. It is clear from this that after 2000 a break occurs, and this break also shows that three years of work of all those who deal in any way with Slovenian railways has been lost. Revenues are falling, both on passenger transport, on freight, even more, and on infrastructure equally - everywhere is falling. And if, ladies and gentlemen, those who deal with business recovery, you intend to continue doing so, in this direction, then you will never catch a business recovery. Why? Now you have surplus workers, you have a higher amount of cost per unit of production, when this is constantly decreasing, you will be in behind all the time, and you will be doing business recovery yourself on business recovery. This recovery does not stem from the assumption of a certain extent and how we will achieve that extent. How transport, or freight or passenger transport, will be achieved to some extent of growth and will adjust costs or other resources to this. That's just not what it is. And what does this business recovery look like? The burdens, the burdens that have arisen and are the legacy of the past, these pasts, including the three years we have listened to in the National Assembly, how you rent loans when the state guarantees. We've given the guarantee that these are very good loans, now you're saying that these are bad loans, that they need to be changed, that is, replaced with other, better ones. In short, we've been listening to a series of untruths. As was the untruth of the referendum, which was supported by citizens in contrast to other referendums. But they didn't know what. Where's that 170 billion minus 170 billion earlier? So that's where this recovery is based. Old form - the question pays the state. The state will recapitalise, the state will turn its liabilities into equity, revalue the land, cancel the utility. This also needs to be evaluated After taking over the obligations of Slovenian railways from guarantee loans - 45 billion fresh loans. I'd even like to go through with a staff restructuring. He's not quite ready. Where's the plan for the new programs? Where is the plan for new jobs for other participating companies? Where are the other institutions involved in the retraining? That's not in there. You listed 5 million per employee's head. But when I read that thing, I saw that it would be more for the purpose of retirement and waiting for retirement. This, I'm sorry, is not a staff restructuring, but it's an inappropriate way to put out fires. The law is necessary. We don't object to that. But even more so is business recovery in the true sense of the word. And privatisation, what you've just stated is preparation for privatisation. Such privatisation, where the state will assume all its obligations, is likely not to go into privatisation, the obligation to build, the modernisation of infrastructure will fall on the country [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I'm sure he'll be taking a truck ride into privatisation. [[...]] Maybe one piece of passenger traffic, maybe, can get something else out there. This is how we will end up with: cream is collected by those who receive these shares in the privatisation process, and burdens fall on the country. We have privatisation and re-maintenance procedures in Europe. Take a look in England [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that any special effects, at least general privatisation, have not been achieved. Above all, there is a lack of this business vision of how to increase the volume of business and on this basis adapt the other components of the business. That's not in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the Slovenian People's Party's Group has withdrawn the amendments tabled and since no other amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of its Rules of Procedure, decide at the next meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON DEFINITIVELY, THE LEGISLATION OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF AUTHORITIES AND RELATED LAWS, PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We'll wait for the government to come to the hall. I ask Mr Vrenk, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, if he wishes to have the floor for an additional explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In addition to explaining, I would like to highlight perhaps one point that has been considered at the forefront and which deserves attention now in the introduction. In addition to knowing that the reasons for adopting this law in the Directives adopted after 2001, when we corrected this law, another important reason is that the results in collective governance are unsatisfactory in terms of the criteria that apply in the European Community, which we have finally committed ourselves to fulfilling by the Association Treaty. In the core, it was a question of why collective governance stands with us and rightholders cannot exercise their rights, as is the case in other neighbouring countries. From, I will say, detailed analyses and from practical circumstances it was clear that we are dealing with the concept of a solution in the current ZASP, which was based on the assumption that in Slovenia the conditions characteristic of the post-Balkan period, that we have a high level of disorder and that the intervention of the State in regulating economic relations in collective application are such that the State authority must be involved. The law provided that tariffs which are the method of fixing the refund should be established unilaterally, the State authority approved them, but the law did not fully produce this system because it did not set the eligibility criteria. At the same time as the State authority, which was the Office of Tariff Control, and with the absence of criteria for this, there were conflicts, fraud and the matter could not be moved. In short, today this is, I will say, the lack of law is obvious and the issue that we have to deal with matters, because we are dealing with a Balkan disorder, of course, is no longer acceptable at all, and therefore the government is strictly assuming that we can only bring order in by recognizing that we are an orderly society, not an orderly society. This is why the government, in the solution it offers, has adopted a system that has a 100-year tradition and test and is established in Germany and Switzerland, Austria and, as such, suitable for our cultural environment. The government has built the proposal you have in this law on the basis that the substantive basis of this system is that in the area between the author and the listener, not to say, consumers, because cultural goods are not consumed, but read; in short, intermediaries have developed between the author and the reader. German experience, 100-year-old, has discovered something that is clear today. Among these intermediaries, which are intertwined because of demand - these are operators, publishers, radio stations, different types of organizers - that there can be no classical market roads between them, because information has as an object as a mild specific property; there can be no rare good when you consume it, it is not used when you copy it, it costs you nothing - in short, it is a so-called 'anomaous sub-market', which can only be regulated by consensus of those who are co-dependent when entering the market. All those I have listed - intermediaries, from author to consumer - are dependent on each other and today in developed societies talk even about the industry of literary and artistic works and "de facto" the incomes of this social subsystem are increasing, they receive important shares in the economic activities of many countries, and one could say that this is the beginning of the third millennium, in fact the information market, which is specific, where classical market roads can no longer be weighed, should go into this problem with reflection. That's the proposal you're building. So I would say, our assessment of the acceptability of this is, of course, such: conflict relations exist in the sphere of those directly affected by the fact that they are in the same boat. Everyone would like to make the most of what we as listeners pay. And if you ask each other, no one is satisfied with the division of what the market in Slovenia gives. However, the law cannot fall into this division. The law and this Parliament must lay down the rules under which this conflict is resolved. And the government argues that this proposal, which is essentially a transposed system from these three countries, if you want, from the German, Swiss and Austrian areas, is to meet these conditions to ensure the rules of conflict resolution, by removing the blockade that we are currently dealing with. In short, I am offended that this Parliament cannot meet the fact that it intervenes in their division, they will have to agree on their own division, while the rules allow it to do so themselves. In line with the requirements of the Information Society Directive, mediation has also been introduced as a suitable instrument, because when you have a business conflict, this is a business conflict, it is necessary to resolve the conflict with good expertise, not with State coercion, which divides some income with arguments of power. In short, we have introduced mediation as that instrumentation, which all European countries as well, and let's say - to quote the German experience. For them, virtually every tariff was reached as an agreement. In short, the government estimates that by adopting this law we will create a relationship with which we will move the deadlock in the exercise of, in particular, related rights and will meet the conditions that we have committed ourselves to the retention contract. That's why the government is proposing that you adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Valentin Pohorc, to present the report of the Committee
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I will be a brief comment on this report, which you have in writing, under point 24. of 6 April 2004. The Committee on the Economy considered this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights at its meeting. The law was extremely interested, both on the Committee itself and on the part of the interested public, who attended the Committee. The Legislative and Legal Service has made a number of comments on the basic proposal for a law that has also been taken into account through the proposed amendments adopted by the Committee. On the basis of the debate and the amendments adopted, the Committee has adopted a complementary proposal for a law that we have before us today to adopt. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Intellectual Property Office! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on copyright and related rights in the Slovenian Democratic Party shows that the exercise of intellectual property rights in Slovenia is still quite flawed. Current data on the level of authorial fees of some state officials and university professors, which have been published by the media in these days, also testify to the disorder in this area. In this regard, we draw attention to the government's public call of 6.2.2004 sent by the Slovenian Union of State and Social Authorities, which points out the enormous fees and correctly notes that the authors or those who have received the fees paid should be able to perform a multiple of their work where they are employed. We can say ironically that Slovenia seems to receive at least two Nobel prizes this year, because these contributions, for which they have received such enormous prizes, must certainly be of such quality that they deserve the Nobel Prize. So much for that. Now I'm going to see the novel that we're dealing with. Despite the adoption of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which has already been completed twice and amended in 1995, the situation in this area has not yet been regulated. We therefore agree in the SDS that the applicable copyright law should also be supplemented by the provisions of section 6 of the second section of the Act, which deals with collective management of copyright. We agree that the shortcomings and weaknesses of the copyright and related rights law must be addressed, but we are concerned about what will be the law that is adopted so quickly and after a reduced procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that when the law completely newises the entire chapter on collective management of copyright, there is no basis for reduced procedures. The chapter on collective management of copyrights fundamentally changes the way it is managed so far, as it provides, inter alia, for negotiations as a way to reach common tariff agreements. In addition to both chambers, he advocates the judgment that there is no basis for reduced proceedings, including collective organisations. I would like to point out that this procedure is so fast and that it is not properly regulated that I must point out that the magnetogram from the meeting of the Management Board is not fully available, so that it was not possible to examine all the positions of the parliamentary groups that were sitting in the evening themselves. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the solutions proposed under Article 6, which discusses the limitation of the right of processing and therefore the need to strike a balance between the owner's right to free processing of the architectural facility and the respect of the author's right to respect for architectural work. In the SDS, we also agree that the most irregular area governed by Article 18 of the proposed law, which governs the style of the chapter on collective management of copyright. So far, the most difficult situation has been the provision of Article 153, which has been adopted by the collective organisation and approved by the intellectual property office. In the absence of an agreement between the collective organisation and the user association, it is mainly a matter of catering establishments, but there has been a lack of respect for the obligation to pay authors' fees. We agree with the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that more time should be taken to adapt to the current law of EU law and to make more radical changes to the chapter on collective governance. In the SDS, we are aware that the authors of their rights in Slovenia are often unable to exercise their rights, but at the same time we believe that the provisions resulting from the proposed text of Article 157, as presented by the LDS, United List and DeSUS Members, in particular in paragraph 3, do not constitute a lasting solution. Although it is true that the author is the creator of new values and the authors are permanent owners of copyright, we do not agree with the setting of tariffs within the meaning of Article 157, paragraph 3, which provides that until the signing of the collective agreement [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] require compensations to be fixed by them themselves. [[...]] We are therefore convinced in the SDS that this article needs to be properly prepared and that it is necessary to find a common language between the collective organisations representing the rights of authors and the users represented by the Chamber of Commerce and Economics. I see time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will, of course, support the bill's proposal. In particular, in order to harmonise the subjectivity of the content of this Act with the directives. However, we would like to point out that, irrespective of time constraints, it would be somewhat more expected that the Ministry of Economy, which is a kind of parent resource for this area, would have stepped into the arguments with which both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the exclusive representatives of the real sector, at least on questions 2 and 18 of Articles. But, unfortunately, these arguments were simply not heard by the proposer, and unfortunately not by the majority on the committee. All I want to say is that we are fully examining the expectations of all authors that they will use their right as a personal right to sell their work on the market. But things, because society is like the whole, sometimes we just have to make a deal and make some compromises. In this sense, it should certainly be burdened in terms of the expected copyright in the marketing of another public space, but not so fraught with the definition of a hotel room as a public space and, of course, additionally marketed from this. It is clear, but with this we have further reduced, I would say, the competitive capacity of the tourism sector in the economic segment. Similarly, in Article 18, I believe that the Ministry of the Economy's duty, regardless of the fact that it is so enshrined in the law, is, in terms of obedience to the real sector, to seek some agreements and compromise solutions in advance. We'll just support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Valentin Pohorec, DeSUS, has the floor. Mr. Pohorec, will you present your position? No, no, no. We can move on. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on copyright and related rights is one of the laws which has extremely difficult contents and which we are saving in this set of laws that we have to adopt by 1 May. However, let us hope that with the additions or amendments we are preparing, the text will be in such a way as to harmonise or help to harmonise interests between collective organisations representing copyright and related rights for authors of works and between users represented by representative associations. At this point, we find that contracts are concluded between users and authors, but no contracts or agreements have yet been concluded between the operators of these works. And the reason for this is also because, on the one hand and on the other, we find that they do not exchange enough accurate information that collective organisations need in order to do their job and to enforce the accounting of copyrights. On the other hand, users also do not have accurate data to represent collective organisations. The tariffs proposed and confirmed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property are applicable both to authors associated with the SAZAS collective organisation and, of course, to the IPF, these tariffs have not yet been confirmed, i.e. to operators. With additions to this law, we believe that solutions could be reached in a way that, over a period of time, the data determined by the authors themselves could be used, taking into account, of course, the ability to pay the users of these rights, since, to leave only one party in that period during the meaty period, the authors would, of course, go into very serious difficulties with companies or independent entrepreneurs who are users of these copyrights. We, of course, hope to reconcile these matters with the amendments to the law. The issue of accounting for the use of copyright in premises is also raised. It is mainly public spaces, rooms and other public spaces. According to the current text, everything is considered to be public space, and hotel rooms and private rooms are also charged in tariffs. Whether they're busy or not. Thus, it is also a rather volatile area to account for these copyrights of the tourist facilities or legal persons and independent entrepreneurs involved. So this question is also one of those that will probably need to be resolved further, and let us hope that we can succeed. Regarding the copyright of architectural buildings, it is stated in the amendment that the owner of a built architectural building can do this work free of charge. We don't think that's a good solution. Because this could mean destroying some very important architectural work, which, of course, will usually only be expressed in the future. In addition to this work, we would support the additions in a way that, however, we also retain the works of art in the architectural field to a greater extent than is enshrined in this law. With all these solutions, both in the field of tourism, in the field of architecture and, of course, in radio houses, let us hope that this marriage will be great [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] to regulate the situation in this area. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The government justifies the proposal for these amendments with the need to harmonise our legislation with European legislation. If we look at the content of these changes, we see that they are not entirely related to this area alone, but we also need to make those changes that we need to make because of our own market, because of our needs, whether we are included in the European Union or not. In fact, most of these changes should have been made substantially earlier, not now, just before the 12th, when we are doing something quickly or when you make a quick suggestion. This makes it less possible to obtain good solutions, as has been shown in particular in Articles 2, 6 and 18 of the bill. Article 2 simply tackles the problem of public space and catering facilities quickly, which will have consequences for raising costs in this part of our economy and for poorer competitiveness. The question is whether the authors in this title will gain something or not; in the short term, perhaps, in terms of limitation, but not in the long term. In short, it is such a solution that is not good in our opinion and has been accepted because of speed. Copyright is a natural right, but when we send it to public space, it actually has the nature of a monopoly. That is why an intervention by the State is needed, and in this case ours is appropriate, in order to limit this negative nature of the monopoly. The attempt was also made in Article 6 concerning the construction of buildings, so that this right of the author could be fully exercised by those who actually bought it off and also claimed that without prejudice to it - in previous legislation it was so that there was no way to visit the facility. The reasons were not to do stupid things and spoil his work. However, we need to come from the fact that if someone bought something, they have a free mood. It follows from this that if something spoils the author's work, about moral compensation, if this work, which he broke himself, sold for the author's work or presented it for the author's work. Then, in fact, if it intervenes in such an inappropriate way, it is not justified to call it the work of the author. The author did not build the building anyway, the author, the architect, he designed it and could still give it to the public. In short, if we understood copyright in this way, there would be no complications, and we would also defend the natural aspirations of architects and other artists in an appropriate way. The provisions on restrictions on reproduction on the Internet and other options seem quite appropriate to us, because right through these means copyright is the most damaged. Technology is progressing, and legislation must follow in this respect. By supporting these changes in New Slovenia. We also support the status of the collective organisation, because it is actually about managing collective governance with rights, they must be, and Europe knows that. Not because of Europe, but because in terms of copyright protection, of course, the prevention of inappropriate monopolies is appropriate. I would also touch on copyright and the use of disabled persons, where some copyright work changes according to the needs of disabled persons accordingly. And what about it? However, the solution is summarised by Slovenian legislation at least partly under German law, meaning that leave is also a change for this purpose, with some compensation or compensation. We believe that the provision is not adequately resolved and will in practice lead to any dispute that will be resolved, either through mediation, which the law enforces, this is a solution that is good for all accidents in court, but will probably result from these disputes. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and this provision is not properly regulated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, fellows! These amendments to the copyright law are welcome for two reasons. One of the things that everyone has said is that part of this legislation needs to be aligned with these Directives. Secondly, because part of these solutions that we are deciding today, I will only say, are more solidifying copyright, than in particular copyright and insufferable, and abandons those mechanisms that have been associated over the decades in Slovenia and Yugoslavia with this discomfort, which has been applied to individualism, so to speak, to the authorship of creativity, to that part of human activity that has not been captured in the pool of labour and resources to say in a language that is already forgotten. So that now the law in force only had a few solutions that had this sub-area, that it was possible and necessary to negotiate everything and that without the consent, for example, users could not be exercised also, say, rights that originally belong to authors or that are represented by collective organisations for the benefit of authors. An important novelty to me is that the Office has a new role to play in this system of exercise of rights and that, as some kind of institution, the State is not the last one to accept or not accept tariffs, but, in fact, to negotiate, on the one hand, to users or to these different chambers and other representative associations and on the other hand to collective organisations. I do not doubt that this will lead to a lot of distractions in the future and probably also problems, but I think that this is a sublime, that it is both in the interest of authors and users, that these things are arranged in agreement, right. In this respect, it is also necessary to weigh these different discussions that have occurred in recent days, czech, but now, due to the authors, will suffer great damage to the Slovenian economy, say touristic, then radio etc. Nevertheless, it is necessary to know that, I will say, even in the interest of the authors, that they are best played, that it is in the interest of the authors, that all those organisations, all those associations that use their works, work successfully, but, and here there is a difference that they can participate in this success, of course. If I illustrate the case of these famous hotel rooms. Then, of course, there is a simple choice for someone to take a room with or without a TV, you can think about what you will take, but whoever takes a room with a TV will have an additional offer and the TV itself does not provide the hotel owner with the comfort which only brings the guest a program that comes into the room. It is necessary to pay for this programme, and this is everywhere, and this is being pushed into these agreements. If it is necessary to explain other things later, with great joy, but it is essential to be aware of what our constitutional court has also found that copyright is irresistible and that, when it comes to its use, it is also necessary to pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you very much. These were presentations of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. So far, I have two amendments to Article 6 and one amendment to Article 27, so we are going straight to the debate on the two amendments to Article 6. These are the amendments tabled by the LDS Members' Groups, the United List and DeSUS and the amendments of the New Slovenia Group. That is said, I am opening a debate on Article 6. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment, which we have written, I am withdrawing because I think we should somehow get the combination of this lesson into combination with the existing text. To match what we somehow want to achieve in Slovenia. Protection of copyright, on the other hand, the possibility of application, or the owner, to determine that it is not that there is a blockade, as it is in the existing system, and then through the actual enforcement or abuse of the law, that results can only be achieved, so that those who have built the facility can also adapt it. Because they couldn't. And the author could have blocked their work. We just have to let it be defined. Of course, respect should be given to the author’s work, but it should be tolerated. There were a lot of things going on in this circle. There was also material blackmail because the author did not allow under certain conditions of processing, which was necessary due to functionality. We have some facilities in Slovenia. So we have very beautiful objects, very good products. On the other hand, we have some that are completely inoperable and needed to be processed. This is also one of the primary schools for which the author was awarded. It's a national award. Well [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Can I have a word with you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u46	I see that there are more debaters at the same time and I would like to hear what they are discussing. That I know how to answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u48	In short, there was also such work, to the school for which the author was awarded and was impossible to arrange. And there was an urgent need to make a change. If, of course, the author sits on his copyright and says, I won't allow it because it will spoil the composition, then the one who owns it is completely unprotected. But he bought this. The author can still behave with creation. Of course not, so this replication in practice. This complication must be resolved in an appropriate manner. This fundamental arrangement was, in a sense, which you first wrote down, and which was later corrected, was better. The first, which you wrote as a government proposal, actually achieved its purpose. I expected that a third paragraph would be completed by the Government, for example, in the way that some of the works assessed as undisputedly good, such as from all the Republic's calls, a special level of protection, but again not absolutely, but a higher level of protection, not only that moral copyright must be respected. Somehow you didn't detect that impulse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, then Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would predict that there are still some amendments in reproduction just now, so that we do not stop by closing the debate on the articles - I think they will be here soon. However, I would like to discuss Article 6, which has already been discussed extensively on the Economic Committee itself. It is the relationship between the owner of the facility and the designer who designed the object and its copyright as such, when such an object can then be properly processed and what the author's right to do so is. We have already opened an article at the committee meeting so that today we can find a better or real content that corresponds to the basic purpose. And this is in the amendment of the three parliamentary groups, the LDS Club, the United List and DeSUS Group, which says, "If the owner of the architectural facility is planning," so whoever owns the facility, what I know, every owner of their own apartment house, is the author's work of someone who made the project, "this work must be processed, the processing must offer priority to the author," so to the one who designed the facility if it is, of course, alive and attainable if it is not, it is normal that it is no longer possible to offer it. And in the second point of this article: "If the architectural object is older than 25 years," it is necessary to set a time here, "but if the author unjustifiably refuses to cooperate," so he is alive and no longer willing to participate in the renovation, renovation, modification of this facility, "may the owner of the work of the free area." Of course, this does not mean that he does not have to comply with other laws, if the object is under protection, then the law on spatial regulation and the law on the construction of buildings; this is bound to be taken into account as if he were building on a new one. And that, however, he must respect the author's moral copyright, which he originally designed. We believe that this new proposed content of Article 6 would be more appropriate than what is now enshrined in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the proposaler, Mr Drobnič, or the New Slovenia Group, withdrew the amendment. I also like this because the amendment covers that mentality which is extremely liberal in terms of supporting the liberal logic of capital, which, by the way, is usually attached to our parliamentary or political group. Why I think that such an arrangement, as was partly proposed and voted, of course, in a compromise solution for the article to be upgraded on the committee itself, is bad. What the government has proposed is, in short, the possibility of architectural work being done, but I must point out that even in this previous speech, there was no sense of perception, of understanding what architectural work is, because in the previous speech, however, it was mixed up in the merger of construction. In short, the government has proposed that the owner of the architectural work can, if he wants to process it, work peacefully and work on his own judgment. It can interfere with him, it can hurt him, it can doze him, just like it suits him, regardless of whether he respects the work of the one who was the author of the work. The government referred not to a directive or a specific directive to an information society which allows the reconstruction of architectural buildings without any additional conditions. I must point out that this directive is not binding so that countries can apply it in their legislation if they want it, in their own opinion, and I see no reason why Slovenia, which does not have any protection for modern architecture, is said to be less than 50 years old. Slovenia certainly likes to bow down and preserve and protect the cultural heritage that extends to Plečnik and perhaps a few more years. For modern architecture, which in fact creates certain achievements and recognitions for this country, it has not yet created any, unfortunately it has not begun to implement any decrees or registries which would also register newer works as works protected or protected. Since this is not the case, it would be extremely dangerous to leave the government's solution in such a way and implement it with a directive that neither of us actually requires if we think it is necessary to do so. Two countries have really implemented it, and that is Switzerland and Italy, but not the other European countries. It is true, however, that the amendment, as proposed and as we have signed it and which, as I say, does not support this liberal capital position, may not be the best. We could design in this sense, as it was said to say, it is true, that we protect or the owner has the right to intervene, not to ask the author, but only that author who was either rewarded, who was either recognised as such, and who is either classified in what status forms of the author, which some ministry, in this case the Ministry of Culture, or the Ministry of the Environment, could lead. But this kind of diction could be very loose, inconvenient, and would require some discretionary judgment, but it would be too imprudent. Therefore, I think that the solution, as proposed, has been better proposed by the three parliamentary groups. It preserves the old arrangement, adding that this limit and this deadline, when the owner can or the owner must turn to the author of the solution itself, are limited. Restricted by 25 years, I think it's a logical time, for example, it's a matter of creation that came after the 1980s, and then, in the case that the author, for example, is still quite perceptive, skilled enough, he has the opportunity to respect the interferences in those things that he actually created so many years ago. Today, it has also been said that there has been blackmail due to too many numbers or other conditions that the author may expose in such a case, but I would warn you that the second paragraph of Article 6 speaks of if the architectural object is older than 25 years or if the author unjustifiably refuses to cooperate. Syntagma unjustifiably has its own legal explanation and those who solve and solve such cases know that high, too high prices include this dictatorship of "unjustifiable rejection". In short, I think that, if we want to protect the author's works of a modern character, this has not been done by entering a register of contemporary works that are worthy of monumental protection, unless we support this amendment, the owner will actually be able to do what he wants and knows and does not do well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Dear colleague Shirca, I have already said at the outset that the amendment in such a dictatorship as I have put in place quickly is withdrawing because, in fact, this dictatorship instead of the second paragraph of Article 2 should be referred to in Article 3. And further, this amendment will come to the table. That's because of the abuse of the rules of procedure. When laws are introduced, which should follow a regular procedure, they follow an urgent procedure, you know what a mess we have because government representatives also have a lot of problems. The amendments arrive at the last moment where they have to assess compliance. That's why we objected to such cowboy adoption of laws. This will, of course, then amend for all of us, because we cannot make 30 laws in one day from different areas and have serious comments. I mean, I'm designed, but the question is, what's going on with the dictions? That's exactly what I'm trying to point out, and that's why I'm also an amendment as such, formally, I said I'm withdrawing it, even though the content of the plane aims because it's technically a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's right that we get caught up in some concern about how some copyright work in the field of architecture that has, I'll say, some social value. Or the ostensible meaning. Although sometimes it's hard to judge for a short time. However, I believe that the proposal for Article 6 has also led to something that is present in practice. Some architectural achievements as a work of art are sometimes poorly used in the title of their author. Very poorly used. The function turns out to be kind of the opposite of the rest of the architecture. And in this case it is sometimes very difficult, if the matter is too concrete, for an investor or user who bought this copyright work in accordance with life, this building, to fix this work. If the author isn't ready to give the green light. That is why, on the one hand, I understand the proposer. In the second paragraph, this should be addressed in such a way as to ensure that the right to copyright is respected. In the amendment of the three parliamentary groups, of course, we want to put the matter a little bit more in the sense of the fuse. But I only know that because I have had some experience with a certain object, which was simply to be corrected in terms of its functions, it will be difficult to determine when the owner of this works, the owner of this works, of this facility, for example, can move on to another if the priority offer did not hold up, and where is this criterion that the author of this work did not abuse his advantage. Is there a reason for the price, or is there a reason for the second condition? How are we gonna measure this? This is the problem in practice that is becoming impossible. Of course, Mrs Shirca has helped me here to understand that this is also an unjustified rejection of cooperation. I don't know how we're gonna measure this. In practice, I'm afraid there's going to be a problem here. I respect especially the works that have already indicated some common value in their start. But there are also smaller architectural objects that carry the author's work. And I fear that in such works, which are simply to be processed at times, they will be cut down, this condition of proof will always be a heavy burden for the owner of this facility. So I think that in order for this matter to preserve what we want, and that it will also have to be a little bit more perfect in practice, probably later on, now it's impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you very much. A few of you came to the floor in the first place. Allow me only to introduce you to the order: Mrs Črnugelj, Mr Bozič, Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Sušnik. That's the order of things so far. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I must oppose the dictatorship where Mr Drobnic said that we have changed this article in a cowboy way. If we have had quite a creative discussion about which article and for more than a few hours, this is the one that relates to the works of art in the field of architectural works. There were quite a few ideas and versions and corrections to this article. It is true that the law is adopted on a reduced basis, but the reasons are not exactly in this Article. It is important to regulate this matter in such a way that it will also be feasible and that living authors will still be satisfied in some way and will have the opportunity to actually participate in all further processing, finishing and reconstruction of their works. But surely in these turbulent times of transition, when the interest of the owners of the facilities is so strong, there are also difficulties that the objects are not only fully transformed but also often collapsed. And all these liberal aspirations in this area can be particularly dangerous for those objects that have already experienced such or different public recognitions, professional literature, and not least, some have received awards. Therefore, in one of the stages of the discussions, there was an idea that they could export those works in the field of architecture, which were either awarded, mentioned in professional reference literature or in spatial and regulatory conditions, where a special requirement was made to work with a public competition specifically financed by local communities or countries - to raise the level and quality of design works in this way. 25 years is a compromise option, while there were also suggestions that it could be possible for the end of the author's life alone. Of course, we have institutions that preserve all the architectural works of the past, this is a law on the protection of natural and cultural heritage, but we do not have enough anchored institutions that would make the present creativity that is certainly valuable and that future generations will find that certain care and needs have been needed to be maintained. That is why I think that the proposed solution is, however, acceptable, because it has come up in a series of debates and is, after all, a compromise solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Christmas to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Architecture is not my field and it is very difficult to talk about the expertise of architecture. But about what I see, I'm going to ask you a few questions about the amendments to Article 44. Especially those who still remember the Argonavti Hotel in Nova Gorica. He was, but he was processed more than 15 years ago, despite the fact that the author was then awarded a high state distinction as a achievement in the architectural field. The whole thing had to be torn down because it didn't even hold water. Not in the winter, not in the summer. And secondly, we have in Tolmin a post office and a store that was built at the time of the earthquake recovery, after the first earthquake in 1978, the previous century. It's a shame about all of Tolmin. At the time, people made fun of one high-ranking statesman driving a helicopter to Kanin and looking at Tolmin, and he said, "The Tolmins are really good, and they cleaned up all the garbage in two piles, which is what these two objects look like. And when you go through Tolmin, remember what I told you today. The two buildings in the area of architecture in Tolmin are a disgrace. Therefore, I must say that Article 44, as proposed, I will not support the amendments. I cannot agree that the architect who did this in Tolmin would now come, but that we would be doing some new windows again or doing something else with these objects. They're not for these places. And there should be a word in this bill in a professional way. But those who wish our places were beautiful, not that foreigners would be built in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I am aware of the importance of this article, including the solutions we will take to the appearance of the cultural landscape in Slovenia and to respect the author's rights. However, I would say under this Article that the implementation of Mrs Shirca is the best evidence, the most evidence has shown how flawed and unacceptable it is that so important a law, so important a solution is taken after a reduced procedure. Ms Širca stated that Slovenia does not have any protection for modern architecture, that it would be extremely dangerous to implement the directives and that the amendments proposed by the three parties do not support the liberal position of the liberal government. I am grateful that such knowledge comes from this circle. Of course, this amendment, especially in the second paragraph of this Article 44, makes something unclear to me. What does he think - maybe I don't have enough knowledge in this area - what do they mean by syntagma, what does the owner have to respect in this? In doing so, it must respect the author's moral rights. Now, what are these moral copyrights? Is this about his values, his moral ethos? Is it a worldwide definition of the author, let's say it's a sacral object? In this case, you might somehow be able to explain, because, but I don't know, in today's euphoria, this mosque euphoria, some storm troopers that we listen to a lot, perhaps at the head of the Ljubljana County, say, talk about more Christian sacral facilities. Perhaps someone would have imagined that one of these sacral objects should be converted into a mosque, perhaps. In doing so, I believe that the author's moral rights would be violated. Because the author who made some sacral object probably had some value to this object. And I would really like someone to explain in an understandable way what they mean by this definition and this syntagma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sušnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! It is completely incomprehensible to me how a particular group of people in this House is trying to change in any way the basic dictatorship of the applicant, which has nicely aligned itself with the Information Society Directive and amended Article 44 and lifted the ban on changing or allowing the reconstruction of architectural facilities without any additional conditions. I think that this is the only right solution for investors to benefit from this solution, but the owners of the efforts of the authors of the amendments to this Article, which essentially amends Article 44, are going in a direction that is incomprehensible. Not incomprehensible on the one hand, on the other hand, I understand that you have succumbed to the lobby of architects who, in this way, usurp some right that they do not. As the owner that I paid for some plan, some architectural work, I believe I also bought the right to have this work at my disposal. On the other hand, I'm surprised by this, I'm going to say, the misunderstanding or any mistrust of the owners of these architectural creations -- which, by the way, if good, the "faith" paid -- branches of these amendments that you've submitted. Trust people, I believe they have a sense of good, of good, of good, of good value, of good, of good and good and worth, if they've paid so dearly for it. Let people trust, not impose some solutions that favor a narrow group of architects who have already shown what they have done in this space. I would like to add one more case to Mr Christmas. In the environment from which I come, a number of cultural homes and primary schools were built in the 1970s and 80s with referendum funds. Catastrophe, listen, everything with flat roofs and everything had to be practically changed, repaired, upgraded and you can imagine what problems they had with architects and how much they earned because of how much they had to pay to correct their mistakes. I don't understand you and I don't understand what these architects have promised you to force such amendments and such marital solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that when a legislator adopts a law, and if he knows that the law can't be passed on to life, he can't do that. And I do not think that such a provision can be brought to life, as proposed by the amendment to Article 6. So, knowing that it's not possible to get this into life, I'm going to force people to do something that's foreign to them, so I'm going to do some violence. I'm not doing this. I will therefore vote against the amendment. I also keep saying why I think that. If I buy a painting that's not of any particular great cultural value, which is the work of an academic painter, I paid off, paid off the author by buying the painting. And, of course, that's how I paid the author of the project for my house. And I don't see any reason, if I could cut that image into some bad moment, for example, throw it in paper, but here I shouldn't be repairing the house like I think it would be more functional. I'm gonna say, look, the situation in families can change a lot. Someone's become disabled. You have to break through, I don't know, the door, that, that third, and so on. Slovenians, if we're known for what, we're famous for really getting to know each other. If that were the case, I would say, if it went well, that the amendment would go in the direction of protecting the architectural works that are state-wide and not state-owned, I said wrongly, of national importance, then in such a case of course I am in favour. With all four of them, because I think it sucks what the mayors do, and now I'm going to say a little bit about it, they start with some objects. For example, I can say that what has grown now in Kranjska Gora, instead of that old facility, is kind of bad, ugly, foreign, and so on. That's how I see it. But, of course, each eye has its own paint. But that's why now to force, for example, any of us who bought the project, to pay for the authorship so it can't change anything for 25 years, no, wait a minute, that's a little too much. And that is why, of course, I will not, I am on the side of those who will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Let me re-introduce you to the order. Mrs. Nigga, Weber, Shirca, Marshich. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I just said, I wanted to tell Mr. Sušnik that just because we trust people and because we Slovenians have shown that we know some things to respect, appreciate and preserve, we have preserved the goat, we have preserved the typical karst landscape and architecture. And not least, a lot of things. We also kept what I know, Vurnik's facade on Miklosich's road, which they wanted to simply paint in one color and so on. And that trust is also to feel from this amendment that has been made. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Well, with regard to Article 6 and questions whether to preserve the architectural heritage or not, it is important that we try to remember the fact that Jože Plečnik is also one of the architects who is now the pride of Slovenia. And if there was a diction, as set out in the bill, that the owner could freely recycle any object, in the future they would certainly have no architects and even fewer objects that could be valued as an architectural heritage. This amendment, this addition, which is submitted, seeks to take into account the importance of architecture, both in public and in private-owned buildings. The idea was to try to limit the importance of the facility only to public buildings. But also, these public buildings change owners and they can come into private property tomorrow and at that moment actually shut down all obligations to the author again. Therefore, it is thought that for at least a period of 25 years it is necessary to respect this work and to enable us to maintain the development of architecture, including our own architecture in Slovenia. And it is not acceptable that at the expense of some bad architects, who have certainly also lost good architects or even lost an inheritance that can be left by good architects. That is why this amendment is also a kind of compromise among all of these, but it is certainly good because it takes into account both private property and public. However, there is still a possibility that if the owner fails to agree with the architect of everything necessary for the processing to be carried out, they will not conclude this agreement. However, it is essential that they negotiate and come to a harmonised position before this. But if we leave this only to the owner, we can say goodbye to the architectural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u72	This is an arrangement which is already in force and which is limited only to the extent that the owner does not have to ask the owner about the priority right of consulting and processing for that building which is over 25 years old. This restriction is helping the owner. But if we let the owner do whatever he wants according to his logic, what's going on would be happening. It happened in Kranjska Gora. My colleague, who says he likes to see the cut pictures at home alone, if he thinks the copyright work is unworthy, mentioned the case of Kranj Gore, when the owner is without - even though the object was not protected, it was not so old and could be after all. It's already ready in the register, but the competent ministry doesn't turn on the green light. In short, if an investor does what he wants, then Kranjska Gora happens, what happened to Sevinj Sever before he died when he was demolished and destroyed by all the awards and also by Prešeren's award-winning architecture. And it's also a bunch of other cases where it interferes with those buildings that have a copyright stamp. The author's stamp doesn't have any houses. If today the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is a promoted architecture that takes Slovenia and gives it a certain seal and recognition and which is exhibited at different ends of the world, and not only this one, the author wants to process, it is logical that the bureau will ask for advice or consent as to whether it makes sense to add something to this building. In practice, these requests, which are referred to in Article 44, take place at public facilities, happen at schools, occur at hospitals, at theatres, at hotel buildings and more or less at buildings where the authors left their mark. I don't think we should open up these questions in the National Assembly about what copyright is and what isn't. This open question has left this open issue for too long because of this, architecture has been very, very late in the Slovenian space as well as artistic or creative work, with which we can also boast. And we have something to boast about. We must not let this then, after some inertia of will of the owner who has such and different desires and who can be conscious, but can also not, happen too freely. Mr. Lavrinc, you said you could cut the picture if you didn't like it. You can also cut the book, if you don't like it, you can dump it in the trash if you don't like it. And in this sense, you will not publicly disqualify the author because this is your problem and will be in your trash and will be in your apartment. Architectural work is a public work, subject to judgment, use, not only of time and people, but also of some spiritual state of space. After all, if we didn't have a Plečnik, if I mentioned only this period, which is fortunately protected, it wasn't that simple, it would be a question of who could we show this Ljubljana to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you very much. You know, not everyone's an architect, Plečnik, that's the first. Secondly, not every object is registered in the register of Slovenian cultural monuments. And of course for such monuments I plead, I'm in, only then have to write it down, I'm in, even if it's said that this applies to public buildings. But we can't all put something together for investors, which, of course, we can't pay them with anything. I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, then Mr. Bevk. Here you go, Mr. Marsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I am aware that it is a fear of having more architectural spoils in our space and, above all, corrupting the quality work of the author. I was already on the board when I was replacing, discussing this subject, but of course they didn't agree with me. My personal opinion is that this should be governed by individual contracts of employment. This solution, that this rule does not apply, that work on the possible production of the original work must first be offered and that it should be indicated for 25 years that it does not apply, you know, I think in the life of one building for 25 years actually does not mean much. No one builds a building for 25 years, and I think even after 25 or 30 years, it's the same procedure as before this deadline. That's why I didn't agree at the time that this would have been arranged in this way, because I think that it would only be burdensome for people when they might want to otherwise arrange an object from what they originally planned. And I think that every single author of an individual piece could, if he thinks that this is such a top-notch job that needs to be protected, he could find a protector in a contract with an investor that, if possible, the investor always comes to him first and thereby protects his copyright integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before I give the floor to Mr Bevk, allow me to greet among us his Excellency Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, Prof. Miomir Žužol, with a delegation. Your Honor! Good-bye. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] To your word, Mr. Bevek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Of course, I must first say that I respect good architectural achievements, and yet I feel that this amendment is too widely written. He will thus occupy all the buildings that were, say, built on the basis of a public competition, such as a house that I myself would have ordered for an architect and then should respect this article. These are both private buildings and architectural achievements, as well as public architecture. This is about both the exterior of these objects and the interiors of these objects. These are objects that are cultural heritage and objects that will never be. That's how this amendment embarrasses me here, and I tend not to back him up, as if I gave him my voice. However, I agree with the part of the explanation, which says that unfortunately no solution has yet been introduced in the Slovenian space to protect the quality achievements in the field of modern architecture. So I think that this is a priority that we should somehow accept in our national assembly or with some other, maybe also by-law acts. However, I think this formulation is very broad, because in this formulation virtually all architectural objects and from the most modest private house to some public object, which was accepted at a public competition and made by an established Slovenian architect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I fully understand and reflect on a possible compromise proposal, which I think Nova Slovenija caught in the sense that we are all of the same opinion that architectural work, which is rewarded at the state level, or work that is actually publically good, by recognized architects, is difficult to change. And it's a good thing he doesn't change. But in fact, this amendment, which was written, is too wide. The architectural facility is every assembly house you buy from Marles, Jelovica or anywhere else, near Rick, for example. And here my colleague Lavrinc is right that when you pay the architect - I think now the tariff is between 700,000 and a million tolars for an architectural project, for the construction of a private house - you have bought his copyright. And it would be reckless for a 25-year period every time you want to make a roof that your neighbors allow and is in accordance with regulations to re-examine the design of an architectural project. And if we very much banalize or put this into extremes, then again on the administrative unit, we're filing an application for a building permit, which you can get on the basis of an architectural project. However, I would like to point out - and therefore I expected the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw attention to the explanation published in the Rapporteur - that is, what colleague Maja Širca proposes is a partial modification of the basic text, which has already been amended by the government and the committee. And if we went to this initial starting point, plus, of course, the 25 years that have been completed, then we would be in conflict with the explanation that the government has given. Let me just warn you about her. The Government refers to Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure. "The amendment of Article 44 follows the provision of Article 53 of the Information Society Directive, which allows the reconstruction of architectural buildings without any additional conditions. The current law already knew a similar provision, except that it provided for an additional condition, which is a priority right to re-manage the author so far. This provision, however, has caused more problems in life than it is supposed to solve them. The practice showed that the owner was faced with a priority right instead of processing rights, which was practically the same. Therefore, there were similar unsustainable situations as if the owner had to acquire new copyrights in general. The proposed amendment finally brings an unequivocal solution to this issue. The same provision is made by the Swiss Federal Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Article 12.3." End of quote. Therefore, it is also necessary to look from this perspective, and I expected the Government to point out, of course, that when the amendment proposed was adopted, it would once again violate the Information Society Directive. And that is why we are amending Article 44. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I see more and more that such an amendment happened to be on the table. For now we are all beginning to discern that he would bring many troubles and make things worse. Because I can't imagine how to do it. Actually, I think it might be a basic guide to regulation. That's what you say, something that simplifies procedures. Finally, it does not burden investors with unnecessary administration. I believe that such a regime, as proposed here, would apply only exceptionally to certain objects that are particularly needing attention. Besides, there's a whole bunch of phrases in the amendment that I can't explain to myself. What does it mean that the author is usually available? I don't know what that means. Does that mean that if you go to him, you ring the doorbell to get back to you? If you're texting him to respond to you in a week? Or whatever. He's alive, we know what it means. But he's usually available, and I don't know, I'm sorry. I also do not know what the second paragraph means if the architectural object is over 25 years old and the author unjustifiably refuses to cooperate. What is an unwarranted rejection? That means if it's too expensive or not. I believe that this amendment will not be supported, not only is it not logical, but it will make any action and work very complicated with us, and I believe that it is possible to have too little thought on our food.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Allow only a warning if you have not noticed. The New Slovenia delegation withdrew the amendment earlier, and now there is a new amendment to the same parliamentary group on the table, and this is not a correction of the amendment, as they have mistakenly written down, but is an independent amendment to Article 6. And they say in the new article 44, a new third paragraph is added, which reads: "When the work was awarded on a national invitation to tender, the owner must obtain the author's consent. The consent of the owners shall not cause disproportionate costs or significantly prolong processing times." This is an amendment, which is taken as a stand-alone amendment, but with this warning, if the amendment of the LDS, United List and DeSUS to Article 6 is adopted, this amendment of the New Slovenia Group will be irrelevant. Mr. Jakich, then Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Madam Vice President, I must say I'm a little discontented. I have called on representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would therefore ask if the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can answer open questions and perhaps resolve these dilemmas, which we are essentially translating now and essentially inventing innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. My warning did not mean that we had already concluded the debate, not at all, but that we were also discussing this amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, so that it would not then be reopened, which is now an amendment. I'd like to invite Mr. Wrenk's office director, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jakič quoted the explanation and, of course, the government also stood on the committee in this position. However, the Parliament was a place of interest and the Committee had taken over the proposal, which was based on the need to rely on moral rights. These moral rights are regulated by Article of the Berne Convention and there is even a chapter of articles giving these moral rights. It's a right for the author to resist. On that basis, he actually broke through this amendment. The government, however, had another position, namely the Berne Convention talking about architectural works. It also speaks of copyrights that must be expressed. And the architect expresses his creation with a plan, and then he sells permission to bring this plan into the house. Our assessment is that these two relationships should be settled over time. The author's creation is a plan and contractual relationship in which he allows his work to be realized should be a city that provides for a relationship to his building. And if the contract enforces the right that whenever there is a contracting entity, an investor, a house is converted to hire it, then it has that right. But if, as you said before, the entire plan has been transferred with all rights, then the investor can regulate it freely, considering that the work is not going to fail and so on, what is in the Berne Convention. In this direction, this matter should be settled in the long run, but we have failed at this point. And this view of the matter is also questionable in the professional sphere, because some prove that the author's creation is a house, which, of course, does not follow from the Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u88	I thought you'd already taken note because you were nodding. In agreement with the leaders of the United Nations Group and the DeSUS Group of Members, this amendment is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We are left with the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. The first was withdrawn, there was no misunderstanding, the second was on the bench as an amendment, and there was no amendment. That's why I said it earlier and also read its contents. This is an amendment in part to add a new third paragraph to Article 44. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I said earlier that the basic proposal of the article, which came with a proposal for second reading, had the best definition that the current one is bad because it only speaks of internal interior that one can change it. That's why I think something needs to be done. It may be best to accept the amendment of New Slovenia in this context and add a third paragraph to correct this impossible dictatorship, which the amended proposal of the law entails so that you can change independently as the owner of this facility only internally, interior. I shouldn't practically interfere in any way with the external image or, I don't know, just the building image, but within windows, doors and so on, I don't know, portals and so on. If the proposal remains so, it is poorly useful or much less than the basic proposal of the article. That's what I've been alerting the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Apparently, this discussion was very useful, because not only is it now, but it has previously opened up really serious dilemmas about how to protect copyright and, on the other hand, also the owner who bought it, to allow him to have this property. And the third area is, of course, the preservation of authorship, that is, its creation in public. It's not easy. We know. It's not easy to take the right path. Look, we have cases, Argonauts have been introduced, I don't think this is the most typical case, much more the pyramid in the Louvre. It's the same thing. The French were completely arguing about what it was. But if you look now, it was a real intervention in some cultural heritage with modern grips, with glass, with another dimension, with a straight line into the old style. Yet Paris is now recognized, as I understand it, through the pyramid of the Eiffel Tower. This pyramid has a very high "rating" in the recognition of Paris or France. If you tell people then whether they agree with this pyramid, I'm sure 95% of the Parisians would probably come with saws or with Krampas. This case is a day because it's somehow the most provocative. That it was allowed to change in a rather severe way. But of course we have buildings where it doesn't interfere in such a radical way. And it's good to interfere, and for functionality, and maybe even for reputation. In order to allow this to happen, we must pursue a path, an appropriate legal basis, in order to protect the image, its reputation, its morality, and, on the other hand, to allow it. And apparently we haven't found such a good solution. This amendment of New Slovenia touches and brings a solution, but it is not entirely for everyone. One piece brings a solution. Not for everyone. So I suggest that we now accept this in our second reading. The article is open. And perhaps before the last act, we will make further consideration and an appropriate addition, if necessary. Or, of course, we leave the law to postpone consideration, to really find all the professional solutions that take time. It's just that it's a quick act. The government is fast, we're fast, and in the end, it stops like this. But it won't be the first time. It'll be another time. Now I don't want to hang who's to blame, who's to blame, who's to blame for the labels. We need to be aware when we adopt such legislation that it takes time. Even when we work within the European Union, it will be necessary to take time to do so. This is also what we were warned when we visited the other parliaments that reflection was needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Mr. Brenčič, please, then Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u94	One question to me is, in this new third paragraph, whether it is now possible to make such a selection in order to make it necessary only for those works awarded in the sense of the State tender to be awarded or to obtain some value from the author. More or less, many such works have also been recognised at some international evaluations. This might certainly be a good way for the state to replace it with the public. In this case, the matter is more complex and more plastic. Otherwise, it's concrete again, and I think it's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The third paragraph, which is proposed, is probably also controversial in terms of legislative and legal interpretation. I am speaking because a similar diction or one of them, which was in preparation even when we were thinking, was rejected as questionable. Certainly, I am joining you, Mr Brenčič, the invitation to tender has broad concepts and also a lack of consideration of copyright. It's probably a public invitation. And when it comes to public tendering, it also covers local, not just government or state tendering. There are also distinctions between calls for proposals. In this context, only those things that were obtained at the invitation of the State would be covered. Like border crossings or Dars' toll stations or border crossings that have to pass through the state tender. The second paragraph, that the consent of the owner must not cause disproportionate costs or a substantial extension of the processing time, is already covered in the second existing paragraph, is a valid Article, and also the one which was in the amendment withdrawn by a representative of one of the signatories. In fact, the diction unjustifiably rejects includes precisely these, even in practice, if you ask yourself how this works in practice, an unjustifiable deviation usually means an over-issued fee and unjustifiably high prices, unduely large time intervals and requirements, and perhaps other conditions. These are legal terms and are justified in concluding such replies and contracts. In this sense, I think that this amendment is reckless and its intention is not lost in the way it was desired.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Actually, it's not much to add to what Majda said, which is one of the few things that deals with these things. And the worst thing would be for each Member to drill on himself and wait for a noble spark, that he would also say that he would also make one of his contributions to the architecture of Slovenia. I think that's the worst option we have to think about. I don't think the National Assembly is qualified, as Prešeren would say, "but the shoes belong to the hooves." All these words go to waste because none of them worked. So I think it's the only way that's right is actually a colleague of Majda Shirce's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much. You weren't named Mr. Petan. No, no, he meant us acquaintances. Please, you can have a word for the debate, but not for the replica here. Here you go, Mr. Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that, in this important issue, we should listen to the guidelines stated by Mr State Secretary, who made it clear that we should go towards such an arrangement that copyright or copyright protection would leave the contractual relationship between the contracting authority and the author. This can only be done in the fact that we have the text of Article 6 which is newly regulated by Article 44 only in a way that we support the first amendment of New Slovenia, which will draw, which will replace the "internal regulation of premises" dictatorship with the words "this work". Everything else, however, is left to the contractual relationship in accordance with the quoted Berne Convention. I believe that the good architects know her and that, on the basis of this message, which we will give and by means of Article 6 so adopted, they will protect all their copyrights in such contracts. That seems to me to be the only real and meaningful solution. I also see that the Secretary of State attaches to this solution. I warn you, let us listen here to this and accept the amendment in this context. Then I think this area will be satisfactorily resolved. We will be satisfied, but I think the authors will also be satisfied to protect their copyrights in contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Petan? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Whether this amendment deals with or any of the following, the fact is that we may not even be aware of what our task is. We used to say we had contractors and users, and we found some other interest groups. This is said to be the case if we are discussing some copyrights, we are not only deciding on this issue, but also on the users who will have to use, maintain and financially support this copyright work, one way or another. That is to say, we must also look at this aspect, not for someone to create some kind of macabre, in a positive sense, and then the matter is resolved. But let society deal with it, as it knows and knows to maintain it, so that it will be functional and serve its purpose, and, of course, that it will not fail. We also need to see the matter from this point of view. And if we prepare the matter in such a way that investors will then have a bloody way of sweating when they have to maintain it in this society - ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that we can continue to hear that some things in our society are not arranged because the law was wrong. I think you hear that at least ten times every day. But marriage was not wrong because we allowed someone to create a massacre, but because we did not look ahead, and we did not foresee how we could arrange for it to serve its purpose in this society. That's the other part. And here we have the right. We have a right here because if we don't, we don't know what a national council is. We need to look not only at one tree in some forest, but we need to see the whole forest and make the whole forest healthy. And in this context, this article also needs to be properly defined. However, I must admit that I am pleased that Mr Anderlich has withdrawn that amendment. I think this discussion has helped to make this happen, and that's positive. I think something like this could happen more than once. Therefore, it would be inappropriate for us now to push forward again in that direction when the withdrawal of this amendment was exceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u104	This could be part of the explanation of the vote, but I will support this amendment, which has been corrected, which remains the only one, because what Mr Drobnič has done to replace, and I will miss out on that replaced amendment to paragraph 1 of the first paragraph, is too little. And I firmly believe that what the committee must have done in good faith was probably bad - that it changed the first part of this article, namely that the owner of a built architecture could do this work of free area - that was the government text that it sent into the procedure, then the committee changed it so that only internal regulation of the area could. I think we should go to the basic dictates of the government. This amendment is not now, so I will undermine the amendment of New Slovenia in order to be able to arrange this thing, and it is likely that it is necessary to correct the part about the third point, which is added that it is not only about State calls, but about those things that have already been discussed in the debate. I believe that this article can be done in such a way that copyrights are protected, that cultural heritage is protected and that investors will be allowed what is, according to some regulations, by some harmonised things, what is on its side, that they have an initiative, that they have some freedom, that they have something that enables them to exercise their right. As has already been said, I stress that I would not be attacked again by anyone, that I have no idea of certain things, that copyrights are protected to a level in a way that has been repeatedly highlighted here in other discussions, not just today. That is why I would like to say that I would like to support the fact that we can regulate this matter in terms of content, as I believe the government and most of the debaters thought it would be right, by adding to the emphasis on what has been specifically protected or obtained from these calls for proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I think I can close the debate and move on to a vote. On the bench is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which is the only one to the third paragraph, I have read it before. We will now decide on this and continue to discuss it. Voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič. I concluded the debate on Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u106	Procedurally, I want Madam Vice-President to explain what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u107	I'll thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u108	New Slovenia first proposed an amendment that intervened [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u109	Mr. Brenčič, if you don't mind, I'll explain again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u110	Point 1, and then this amendment and of course paragraph 2, and then this amendment was corrected. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u111	they didn't fix it. [[...]] Let me explain again. I have already explained twice that they have made a mistake in addressing the last amendment tabled as an amendment amendment. Because they've withdrawn the amendment before. The first amendment of New Slovenia has been withdrawn. There's only one more amendment, so let me read it so there's no mistake. May I have your attention, please? The New Slovenia Group wants a new third paragraph to be added in the new article 44, which reads: "When the work was awarded on a national invitation to tender, the owner must obtain the author's consent. The consent of the owner shall not cause disproportionate costs or significantly prolong processing times." And if I understand correctly, the third reading of this amendment will give an opportunity to correct the first paragraph of this article, which was not liked by all. We vote on this amendment. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now I am asking for your attention because there is not yet an examination of the amendments or a review of the amendments because the amendments are coming to the bench. So I'm asking for your attention so we can know what we're talking about. We continue the debate on Article 18 and the four amendments to this Article. All amendments were tabled by the LDS Parliamentary Club, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS. Three are on one piece of paper and one on special paper. The one on special paper will count as the fourth amendment. This on special paper states that in the first paragraph of Article 163 the words 'user association or identical users' shall be replaced by'representative user associations'. Explanation: The amendment is necessary to comply with the amendment to Article 156. That's the one on the special sheet. On the three sides, the three amendments are the same candidates to Article 146, to Article 156, and to Article 157. I am now opening a debate on all of these. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the amendment to Article 18 and the attack on Article 146. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 37 votes against 3. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 18, under order number 2 and the attack to Article 156. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under 3, on page 2, attacking 157. We're voting! There are 51 of us present, 37 votes against one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the same motioners, which is on special paper until article 18, and I have read it before that. We're voting! There are 47 of us present, 37 votes against one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 27th Article and amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Only this one says: the third paragraph shall be amended to read: Procedures for the approval of tariffs which are not completed at the date of the application of this Act shall continue and shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. It is explained that this is in accordance with the principles of legal certainty, in order to complete the proceedings, in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the application. You want a word? Mr. Wrenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This provision is slightly contradictory to the introductory findings on the situation. Even now, because of the legal situation that was in the law, we were unable to complete these procedures. Therefore, it is not feasible for the provision to end after the procedure has been concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u113	Thank you very much for explaining. We can move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 27, which is not supported by a government representative. We're voting! There are 51 of us present, 6 votes against 38. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We're done with the second treatment. Since the amendments for the third hearing are announced, I will suspend the consideration of this item due to the announced amendments. As soon as they're on the bench, we'll proceed with the third hearing. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE CONSIDERED Proposal for a law on electronic communications, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to invite a representative of the government to further explain the bill, Minister for Information Society Dr Pavel Gantar, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a bill on electronic communications, which will fully replace the existing telecommunications law, while at the same time presenting harmonisation with a series of directives adopted in the European Union in 2002. The Member States were obliged to implement these Directives in their own legislation by July 2003 and the acceding countries until full membership in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you very briefly a few basic novelties of this law. First, the terminology is changed here. The concept of electronic communication is applied; there is an abstract case of legal standardisation. The law is technologically neutral, avoids the specification of individual services and networks, introduces a system of general authorisation and notification, no longer a classic authorisation of these services. The status and position of the Agency is established and the resolution of disputes is also more effectively regulated. What is really important can be illustrated by the following sentence: This set of directives and harmonisation in this law introduces greater competitiveness in the markets of electronic networks and services, which will in particular benefit users of these services, the development of the economy and society as a whole in the final instance. Your Honor! The legislative and legal service has proposed several amendments in the report and has pointed out a number of concerns regarding certain solutions in the law. The type of comments was summarised in the amendment of the Committee and are included in the text of the law. The comments that we could not accept because in our opinion they represent a departure from the objectives of the law or even a departure from harmonisation, and to a number of these concerns I have answered with my colleagues extensively and also explained why they are not acceptable. However, all the comments were useful because they allowed for a substantive debate on certain regulations in the law and thus contributed to clarifying the solutions proposed in this law. Your Honor! In addition, four amendments were tabled, three by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and one by the head of the LDS parliamentary group, which are purely editorial in nature. I suggest you take the law along with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body [[We've got the report all on the benches.]] . The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Sušnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Dear Minister, the House of Honor! We are faced with an extremely difficult and delicate task. At this point, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I would like to present an attempt to put forward a proposal for a position on the said legal matter, although it is difficult to talk about a comprehensive position on legal matter, given that after the second reading, only last night in the late evening hours. Well, whatever. I'll try. The proposal for an e-communications law has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, referring to the business possibility, to the national assembly under urgent procedure, which is unacceptable and totally unacceptable for our parliamentary group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Law on Electronic Communications brings an entirely new regulation of the entire field of electronic communications and is already due to the fact that electronic communications form the basis of the information society for which we are advertised, without the need to stress the importance of this legal matter. With the implementation of the Law on Electronic Communications, the Telecommunications Act will be fully replaced at systemic level. In this case, we fully agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that this law represents a comprehensive, thorough and content-intensive legislative procedure which undoubtedly requires proper and appropriate treatment, both in terms of the time needed and of all other prescribed procedures. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that the government's requirement for the law on electronic communications to be dealt with under an urgent procedure is not justified. Moreover, we are convinced that such a sophisticated and flat-rate way of dealing with and adopting a law that deals with such sensitive and important areas as electronic communications brings too much danger and traps. The law is extensive and covers as many as 173 articles, which, according to the proposaler, should place the area of electronic communications within the new European Union regulatory framework. Thus, the law should be aligned with six directives and two decisions of the European Union. Taking into account the latter and the fact that the legislative and legal service has commented on more than half of the articles, i.e. 88 out of 173, on 15 pages, that 73 amendments have been tabled by law on 23 pages, and that the law has been dealt with on as many as five further economic committees that have taken place in the past week, I point out that, during the meeting of the National Assembly, they also point to a kind and completely unacceptable way of processing this so important legal matter. We can rightly ask ourselves questions if the proposed legal solutions deal satisfactorily and in the interests of users in particular with the role and responsibility of the national regulator in the proposed organisation and in the form of the functioning of the Agency, whether the Agency will act in the direction of promoting competition and the single market. There's a whole series of questions going on. In view of the time constraints and the fact that I am running out of time, I would like once again to stress our disagreement with the urgent procedure and, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, propose to the President that, following the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, the National Assembly should adopt a decision to postpone the debate on the law to one of the following meetings. I would like to point out that, therefore, there are several well-founded reasons, the main reason that I think it is also supported by the fact that the law has, once again, 173 articles, that we have not fully adopted the report and the law until late last night and that it is therefore impossible to answer all the dilemmas and questions raised by this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u117	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. We'll discuss your proposal. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for this Act practically replaces the existing telecommunications law by conceptually and substantively regulating or harmonising the entire area of electronic communications with the provisions of a whole range of Directives of the European Union in this field. In particular, from this point of view, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the proposal for a law as absolutely necessary. And we want to say the following. The draft law, the regulatory framework, is an area that is technically and also legally very difficult and a person would expect to be a bill-maker, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its Ministry of Information Society, to address this problem somewhat more responsibly than the entire solutions offered by the proposal. It is unacceptable that the treatment of the law on the home labour body is suppressed in full time and therefore there is no serious and necessary discussion in terms of improving solutions that are inconclusive, in addition to the legal system's dispute. After all, the Ministry has had enough time, not too much time, but enough time, in the wake of the behaviour that this law should be adopted by the entry of Slovenia into the European Union, that is, by 1 May 2004, the draft law was drafted and sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least a few months earlier, and not virtually only in April. This procedure in the Slovenian People's Party's Group understands, at least to some extent, the amendments and the addition of the law to a textual and substantively smaller extent as a final alignment with the European Union's legal order as reasonable. However, such a procedure is not justified in the case of a proposal for a system law containing more than 170 articles and being dealt with in the home body during the plenary session of the National Assembly. In view of the fact that the proposaler and the corresponding majority on the Committee on the Economy have issued a number of specific comments and arguments on the legislative and legal service and the fact that, in such a time pressure as the National Assembly is in place, it is impossible for members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to intervene more seriously in such extensive and technically difficult matter as this bill presents and to make the law applicable in practice will decide whether to support or not the support of this law. The fact is, due to European arguments, it is imperative to adopt the law, and because of a number of inconsistent content, this law will have to be reintroduced somewhat quickly into the process of complementing and amending it. The consideration of this bill can be taken as a model, in the case of how we should not proceed and act if we want to adopt at least some good and appropriate laws. I myself may support the decision of my fellow Members to uphold the law, although I am sure that this law will have to be reinstated quickly. However, at least with that part of the content that represents the coherence of this area with the directives of the European Union, it is prepared to the extent that the disagreement is resolved in both jurisdictions. I will also support the bill because it deserves a huge amount of effort in an abnormally short time, in the first place, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the professional staff of the Committee, while Mr Minister, on behalf of the proposer, did not find and find the smallest word of self-criticism at the time of such action. In doing so, I can only say that I now understand the word that our fellow Member has addressed to us in addressing the previous point, and who should be able to act in a fair manner on a particular issue, whether it be an amendment or a marriage proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the United Nations Group will be presented by Mr Weber. Here you go. Mr. Weber, I'm sorry, this is a misunderstanding. Mr. Pohorec will follow you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. The proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications certainly regulates one of the most important areas, since we do not at last know how to imagine life without effective electronic communications, not at all in today's, modern times and even less in tomorrow's. The content of the law refers to the liberalisation of both the construction of the coast and the provision of these services. Of course, this is extremely important in order to enable the construction of networks to actually be possible and that these services are implemented in the widest possible manner and that, of course, the promotion of competition and the free access to these networks is also one of the main solutions to the law. The solution, that there is no administrative pricing but that they are constructed on the basis of costs, is certainly an extremely important and European solution. However, for all these reasons or solutions, the question is whether, however, the development of electronic communication will reach the entire area in the Republic of Slovenia in a way that will be comparable both to those or, above all, to those developed, so that the underdeveloped areas in the field of electronic communications will be comparable to those developed, as this is the basis for successful development and work throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in all these activities, which have already been observed in the work already done and based on the law in force so far, it is also noted that there is a degree of interest in the expansion of networks, particularly in areas that are not economically most interesting. In this way, the Telecommunications and Broadcasting Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Telecommunications Council have certainly had a great deal to do, and it will also condition some of the solutions that competition dictates in a way that, of course, development will also go to those areas that are not the most economically interesting. It is also appropriate to determine prices which are not administrative, but they already appear in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia different prices for the same service, which is probably not appropriate. I therefore point out that the Agency is likely to have to monitor more closely the implementation of both current and future law in this area. All the directives, which also make changes to this law in such a large part, and we also note that this is indeed an extremely extensive material, which is difficult to process in detail in this short time and, together with the addition of legal and labour services, is likely to be better this law than it has been put into the procedure. I hope that it will also truly follow these directives, four, five of which are the ones for which we need to amend this law by 1 May, bring all those solutions in order to develop electronic communications not only because of those involved in these communications, but that genuine accessibility will be as good as possible and as cheap as possible. Let's hope this law follows. We will support additions that have also been submitted subsequently after the working body of this law has been examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it won't be new if I say we got extensive material just before the 12th. Therefore, not only from the opposition, but also from the ruling coalition, we probably wonder what the reasons were for the Ministry and the Minister not to mediate this system law in essence is a system law - in due time to Parliament. With this, you've brought us into time distress, in front of the wall, if you change now, or we won't be in line. This is an unacceptable conduct, an unacceptable treatment in relation to the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not simply to stick to it, because it is beautiful and because it is necessary to stick to it, but the Rules of Procedure also have a certain logic: that things which are of a systemic nature are to be accepted on a regular basis. We would not like to witness or participate in such acts as the Maritime Code, which has had far-reaching consequences in international relations, because of a single diction in the introduction, in explanation. Can you imagine? Now, however, we have an extremely difficult legal material, a technical material that is supposed to be accepted by emergency procedure, with 100 pages from yesterday to today, 15 pages of the legislative legal service, and the rest being not repeated. That is why, of course, a very simple solution is offered, which has already been proposed by a fellow Member. This is the postponement of this law to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Until then, it is necessary to examine all the provisions, comments and amendments thoroughly in order to have truly harmonised legislation with the European Union. Not because of the European Union we need for ourselves, because of our electronic communications market, because you know we have countless problems. Not to mention frequency sharing. Some disputes have not been resolved for 10 years. It works in its own way and cannot be an entry visa into the European Union. Because of us, because of our dignity. Of course, there is also a question of the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry, why he did not prepare it in time. When you set up a government structure or system, two of them came from one government department. Also in order to better prepare ourselves for challenging tasks in order to carry out appropriate work in this area. But it turns out that even the Ministry, which is just for this information society, has not drawn up a basic law. And it offers it 14 days before the official entry into the European Union. Given that this has not been defined and that these things have not been fulfilled and there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if the meeting continues with the consideration of amendments and legal matter, then the New Slovenia Group will obstruct the meeting for fully understandable reasons. We do not want and cannot vote for such unverified solutions. And because we can't judge these things that are written down. We just can't give up our role as legislator. The rule of law cannot be exercised by the government, nor can the constitutional court. This can only be done by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stana Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u124	Thank you very much for saying so, Madam Vice President. And a nice hello to all of you! With effect from 1 May 2004, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to implement the legal order of the European Union. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for an e-communication law following an urgent procedure. The reason for the adoption of a new law in this area is the new regulatory framework for electronic communications in the European Community, which was needed because of the uniform regulation of the transmission of communications in formerly different areas such as telecommunications, broadcasting, media and information technology. The content of the law covers the liberalisation of the construction of the network and the provision of services. As a very important chapter is the promotion of competition and free access to networks, cost-based prices and the protection of users of telecommunications services and data confidentiality. The Telecommunications and Broadcasting Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Telecommunications Council are also established. The proposed law thus proposes a completely new regime for electronic communications. The law summarizes a number of legal acts and directives and constitutes a requirement for legislative action. The broad opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service required careful consideration of the law by amendments to the Committee. According to the legislative and legal services, the text of the proposal for an electronic communications law becomes more clear or the law accurately describes the content of a specific chapter. The draft law, which has been in preparation since 2002, has been in line with stakeholders and expertise. In the LDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law constitutes a legal basis for resolving problems in this area and we will support the law. We will also support the amendments tabled by Articles 5, 23 and 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plmeniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u126	Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone! The proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications is another of the proposals for laws that have been made very ignorantly and without the necessary consultation of professional services, with those who know anything about it and who are willing to prepare such a law in a water-drinking framework. The fact is that only the number of amendments that have been tabled to this law, both from various parliamentary groups and from the opinion of the legislative and legal service, indicates a strong lack of knowledge of the matter and a somewhat voluntary approach to the subject. In order not to speak too widely, because I think it is again one of the political pre-election moves of the ruling coalition, I might turn to just a few amendments tabled by the Slovenian National Party. The Group referred in particular to one segment, which I also cover to some extent as Vice-President of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence Services. That is why we have embarked on reflection and amendments to those articles that define and speak both of technical methods and of legal definitions and of legal barriers to various forms of interception of communications or of, as it were, wiretaps. The fact is that the Committee on the Economy as a parent has simply rejected all amendments by the Slovenian National Party for one simple reason, because they are amendments by the Slovenian National Party. The fact is, in such cases, the ruling coalition simply throws the amendments of the SNS Group of Members aside and says, because it does not matter, these amendments are tabled by the party for which we would rather do nothing. But it doesn't matter what the amendments say or what the amendments mean. The fact is, because these amendments weren't adopted, there's gonna be a few strange things. Some things can be done through the law, but they will not be controlled. However, it appears that the ruling coalition is essentially only to the point that some things would not be monitored, to some extent could be monitored uncontrollably and to some extent carried out what we are increasingly convinced is the police state of the Republic of Slovenia, which is becoming increasingly police. We are not surprised that the Committee on the Economy has rejected the amendments of the SNS Group of Members, because Minister Bohinc is from the United List of Social Democrats, from the same party as the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy. So we are not surprised by this relationship and this way to the amendments tabled by the Slovenian National Party. The fact is, they don't seem to know the Law on Owl in coalition, the Law on Criminal Procedure, because if they knew these laws, they would know that, for example, the procedure for lawful interception of communications does not fall within the definition of concepts in this law, but these concepts are already defined in the relevant legislation, as I said, in the Law on Owl and the Law on Criminal Procedure. In accordance with that legislation, operators shall only allow the competent authorities to obtain data in accordance with the order of the competent court, whereas the operator may never collect data in a particular part. Well, that's just one of those things. We have tabled a lot of these amendments, none of them have been accepted. Those amendments will be accepted, which are the current coalition. We are confident that, if not sooner, we will adopt a law amending the Law on Electronic Communications at the beginning of the next term. We're not going to support the law because we think it's pointless, bad, incomplete, in short, ignorant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, it was not possible to hear the procedural proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group during the presentation of its position, namely the proposal to move the item to the next meeting. Exceptionally, since this is an extraordinary meeting, I will put this procedural proposal to the vote so that - we have heard the views of the groups of Members - the second and third consideration of the proposal for an electronic communication law is moved to the next extraordinary meeting, following a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The groups of Members may be identified by this proposal and have three minutes at their disposal. Who wants a word on behalf of the SLS Group? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. We will support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Given that the legislative and legal service has only had three days to review the above-mentioned law, which contains 173 articles, of which there were as many as one-third on the committee of amendments, and on the basis that not all the comments of the legislative and legal service were in fact harmonised also on the basis of a view between the legislative and legislative services of Parliament, we estimate that it would be very appropriate for this large draft law on electronic communications to be adopted before the entry into the European Union to be adopted, only to take a few more time and to form the necessary positions this month and, in particular, the necessary amendments to resolve the draft law. We believe that it is still necessary to take some time, given that Parliament is in fact filled with a bunch of laws. In this particular case, it is clear that not all concepts have been clarified, especially in terms of content, not so much content, but in particular legal issues, there is no difference in the relationship between parliamentary legislative service and government service. That is why, of course, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Does any other group wish to present its position? [[No, no, ……]] Then we are moving on to a decision on a procedural proposal to move the second and third proceedings to the next extraordinary meeting. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 15 votes against 37. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Would you like to present your position? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u130	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I predict the obstruction of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Let me explain. We received 109 pages of material last night. At 9 p.m. last night, we closed yesterday's session, and some of our Members were so rude that after the meeting they went to eat something and then to sleep. And of course they failed to study everything and write all the amendments to the 59th open article. All of the articles are 173, some of them are more than five pages long. 59 were amended and the legal and regulatory service, as has already been said, made 15 comments to Article 88. Gentlemen, it is a system law, it is not a matter of amending or supplementing a law, it is a system law that is very extensive, very important. If you think of it as a chorus, in which there are certain some very controversial and questionable matters, perhaps also in principle, let us impose an article for which the heads of citizens will be hurt, not some who want such changes, and because we do not want to be present in such irresponsible work for which we cannot assume any responsibility, we leave at this point. So all responsibility will be on the shoulders of those who are willing to do what they want with this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The proposal for obstruction will also be submitted by a representative of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u132	That's right. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, the New Slovenia Group announces the obstruction of this item of the agenda. We have already made clear in the presentation of the Group's position on the law that it is indeed an abuse of the rules of procedure, an abuse of the Institute of Emergency Procedure, where a system law is adopted, of exceptional importance, but with a technically and legally extremely difficult substance. In such a short time, since last night, it has not been possible to take responsibility for this legal matter. You are well aware that we have had a meeting of the National Assembly with all these points, reviews of a number of amendments, opinions of the legislative and legal services, other laws and also directives adopted by the European Union. It is true that we must first and foremost respect our legal order, but it takes time. In accordance with these reasons, which I have now mentioned, as well as those which I have previously referred to, the Group of Members will obstruct this item on the agenda. We can't take responsibility for the solutions you're offering.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have heard the announcement of two groups of Members. Before I give the floor to Mr Pečet that he will not remain in the air, let me say that the procedure is being carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Pache, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u134	I owe a notice, not substantively, because the substantive disagreement with the bill has already been submitted by the winner, Mr Jelinčič, the leader of the parliamentary group, but, above all, that, on behalf of responsibility for the adoption of legal acts, it seems wise at this moment also by the Slovenian National Party to obstruct the meeting and thus try to achieve non-conclusion. Today we adopt some laws according to our assessment too quickly, too little quality, what happened during the rehabilitation of Holding, where this national assembly told the Slovenian Railways again, work with such a loss, hire consulting companies, who care, because the state will always cover your back Our assessment is just one of the cases that say that it is pointless and unwise to do so to adopt laws. Therefore, also at this point, precisely because of the reasons given by the speakers before me, we also in the National Party predict and sincerely hope that there will be no conclusion that you will not be able to vote on this way of work and this content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And also the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In accordance with the same article as has already been quoted from our Rules of Procedure, I would like to say shots. I have already said in my announcement in the presentation by the Group of Members how this bill is, and I also said that this way of doing things will lead to the vote of our Members in our conscience. I also said that I would support the marriage, because in any way we must adopt it in any part of the content by 1 May. I sincerely hoped that, in view of everything that was going on this week, this bill would be considered in the course of the plenary session of the Committee on the Economy, and I expected a little more wisdom from the existing new coalition, that we would, however, pass on the second reading, given the breadth of the material that we received yesterday, and the inability to intervene in any way in accordance with our competence under the Constitution, that we would move this proposal to the next extraordinary session that will begin this month, and that we could also be satisfied with the fact that this matter is in line with the legal order of the European Union. Since this has not happened, we are predicting obstruction in this article and you will have to, a respected coalition, somehow manage to escort this law to its own admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u137	Thank you very much. To this end, the four groups announced obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. You've got two papers on your desk. The first is the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Articles 5, 23 and 104, and the second special paper is the amendment of the LDS Club, which is also editorial in its 104th Article. First, I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. We'll vote on the amendment next time. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. At 13.50 we will vote for the third time on the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u138	For the third time, we will vote on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u139	I will support the amendment because the necessary editorial work has been carried out due to the comments made by the Law Service. Regardless of what has been said before, I believe that, of course, with this amendment, we are regulating things as we need to. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 23 and the amendment of the same motions to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 104 and the amendment of the same motions. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment of the LDS Club to the 104th Article, which is editorial in nature. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 5, 23 and 104. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we can move on to the third reading. Neither the legislature nor the government have informed me that the law, due to the amendments adopted, would be inconsistent. That is why we can make a full decision about the law. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And we're going to move on to 11. Period of the day - This is to the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between you and me, I'd like to say hello to Minister Mag. Ivan Biszak and I invite him to my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u141	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are intended, on the one hand, to comply with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, both by repealing the second paragraph of Article 41 in that part which provided that the party may only invoke the grounds for enforcement of the judge until the end of the main proceedings. It was necessary to provide that, under certain conditions, such a reason for the appointment of a judge could be invoked until the end of the main hearing. The second decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the third paragraph of Article 49 of the Police Act or to provisions defining police covert measures in this law. From a systemic point of view, it is most appropriate for such measures to be laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act, since it is clear from their content that they are investigative measures. The next, which is worth mentioning, is one of the European elements of these changes. In fact, certain amendments constitute an adaptation of legislation to the United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime. In our work, we have already made this adjustment through amendments to the Penal Code, and we are also doing so in part through these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. It is primarily about establishing a system for the protection of those perpetrators of crimes who are willing to cooperate with detection and prosecution authorities and therefore have some additional possibilities. A legal basis has been established for a specific law that will provide for the protection of such persons, while at the same time the proposed amendments to Article 240 of the Criminal Procedure Act lay down the conditions and means of ensuring the anonymity of certain witnesses during the criminal procedure itself. Let me just mention that the changes to the law reasonably extend the possibilities of settlement and delayed prosecution in criminal proceedings and, if I may say so, the European element also includes provisions which constitute appropriate solutions for the implementation of the simplified extradition convention. This Convention has been in place since 1995, with a view to reducing extradition procedures as much as possible, which is important in terms of the protection of human rights, as well as in terms of ensuring as effective criminal justice as possible. That is why we are also introducing appropriate changes into our legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I would like to invite a member of the Committee, Mrs Lidija Majnik, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Committee considered this law at its meeting on 1.4.2004. The law has also been commented on by the legislature in its written opinion, which the Committee has taken in the form of amendments as its own. The debate focused on the amendments to Articles 16 and 17 of the draft law, the initiator of which was the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, which relate to the preparation and conduct of the overall useful work of the delayed prosecution and settlement. The content of the amendments adopted is that the performance of a generally beneficial work for both minors and full-year offenders is prepared and conducted at social work centres with the participation of the State Prosecutor, since only social work centres know the needs of a generally beneficial work in their environment and can agree with the authorities, organisations and institutions in which such work is appropriate and are properly managed and supervised. Involvement of the Attorney General in the preparation and management of such work would be contrary to the Institute of Settlement and Prosecution itself, where criminal elements replace humanitarian and generally beneficial purposes. The amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations significantly reduced the number of social work centres, while the number of employees remained the same. Therefore, there is no reason why social work centres could not take over this work, as the state's Attorney General proposes. That is why the Committee adopted this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments that are the subject of this hearing are the result of or are conditional on two Constitutional Court decisions concerning the possibility of expelling judges and disguised investigative measures, further due to the new provisions of the Criminal Code relating to scenics and certain witnesses whose amendments were subject to a bad month ago in the National Assembly, the Convention on Simplified Extradition and the requirements of the acquis of the European Union. These are the reasons for these changes. It is interesting, however, what happened in the preparation of amendments to the criminal procedure. This is best said by a representative of the State Attorney's Office at a meeting of the Internal Policy Committee [[Quote]] : "The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office has prepared with this amendment, in agreement with the Minister of Justice, a comprehensive text of the articles to amend the appeal and the contradiction of the proceedings with a complaint against the decision." [[End of quote.]] However, despite a certain assurance that the Ministry of Justice, which I think is more the right term than the Minister, would remove all these changes from the working text without the Attorney General's Office being aware of the reasons for such a decision. Thus, the novelty remained limited only to the modification of the disguised investigative measures that have been regulated so far in the Police Act and some other minor changes. This means that we have added only a few spices to the indignant pot with food, instead of stabilising the pot itself, in this case we have also submitted the amendments proposed by the Attorney General's Office. Also with regard to the proposed amendments, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office should not be involved. Of course, there are little surprises about such a non-operational relationship between the two services in the SDS. And the following, this representative literally said, "I am a private minister," - I think it would be the Ministry - "to ask many times to allow the representatives of the prosecution to participate substantively in the preparation of the proposal for this part of the novel, but it was not possible for us to do so." In doing so, the whole new regime is based on the delegation of police powers to cover investigative measures to the State Prosecutor's Office. Finally, there is only the possibility to make written comments, which we have also seen by Members. Such a relationship is particularly incomprehensible with regard to the financial consequences of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, whether the categories are several million or some ten million. The proposer does not recognise these consequences, although he has been repeatedly warned about them and so on, that I do not tire you out. Of course, all this matter sheds a poor light on the cooperation between individual national authorities. This is said, even when it comes to alignment with the legal order of the European Union, it is also right to monitor the content and not just the deadline, let's say this is the case1. May of this year. Obviously, the quality of legislation is not a factor in us. This proves that we are still mentally in another system. Inoperability is so much more difficult to understand because it is a very sensitive matter, including in the field of human rights, which, of course, is a very fashionable topic for us right now, but it is not so important here. And for that, they must be well prepared. It all says so about the situation in this area. Major changes are needed, including the substantive nature, but nothing. Obviously it is not willing and is not ready for the changes that are necessary and necessary in Slovenia in this area. In doing so, I recalled the words of a representative of a state institution, who was thinking roughly in terms of why we would now change the laws, why we would change the legislation, let us wait for entry into the European Union, because then we will have to change the legislation anyway. It is interesting that we are changing legislation because of the European Union. I think, and in our SDS Group, we think that we are changing laws and legislation mainly because of ourselves. The EU already has this. We do not yet have and obviously live in another world, and this is especially true in the field of justice. Clearly, we are not prepared to deal with some historical content. Of course, this is true of the current ruling majority. If that is the case, there is still much work to be done and it is very close to being able to enter the European Union. However, since these changes, which are indeed minimal here, are necessary, we will support these minimum changes in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u146	Thank you very much. SLS isn't. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we focused on a few changes to the law. We agree, for example, with the legislator's decision to cover up investigative measures such as covert observation or covert action, to determine the vein of the law itself and that he has the right to define it as a state prosecutor or as an investigative judge, in terms of the intensity of interference with human rights, and no longer the police. We are also pleased to see the limitations of the duration of the measures to be investigated in secret, since it is not in accordance with the nature of the criminal procedure that such measures continue indefinitely. In such a case, the process may also be followed by a desire to end the alleged innocence, since the suspect may remain a suspect, theoretically speaking, his whole life. Also with regard to the evidentiary standard necessary for the implementation of these measures, i.e. reasonable grounds for doubt, we have no comments in the DeSUS Group of Members. However, we ask ourselves about the far-reaching scope of the covert investigative measure for the permanent observation of non-suspecting persons, irrespective of the individual guarantees provided by the bill. Perhaps, with regard to restrictive measures, all measures affecting human rights and fundamental freedoms would have this comment before the actual conviction of the suspect. In our view, the judge should have a domain over decision-making on restrictive measures, although on the other hand there might be a problem with the difficulty of judicial work with issues which are not of an elementary criminal nature. However, in addition to taking into account greater protection, such arrangements would also ensure a higher level of equality. In addition, it is essential that measures which have a strong impact on the freedom of an individual take into account subsidiarity and proportionality in view of the social danger at all times and everywhere. However, this is probably beyond the scope of this bill and more of a matter of practice. And in the end. It is true that there are some minor amendments to the existing law. On the other hand, it is also true that some of the proposed amendments should be examined at least in more detail, although the proposed arrangements may be better than the existing ones. Sudden solutions can lead to the inconsistence of the entire law. Regardless of the fact that we are asking ourselves in the DeSUS Group about the appropriateness of dealing with such sensitive laws under an urgent procedure, due to the obligations we have undertaken for the sake of the European Union, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Very briefly. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. We will support it because it solves some of the issues raised in the Constitutional Court's decision and ensures that cases can be dealt with effectively in the courts. Our support goes also to those extensions that give new possibilities for settlement and from the prosecution, because this is one of those issues where we will adapt to European comparable practices in the process and way we work. In this way we will be able to become more effective and not compare our solution with solutions in other countries that are often not comparable. In this regard, the Group also supported the amendments proposed in Articles 16 and 17. However, I would like to say that we have received a warning from the relevant ministries and centres for social work that we may have readily agreed to the argument that, even if they are of age, they should carry out essential business for additional work in the event of settlement for socially beneficial work in the event of settlement of social work centres. It was pointed out that all the issues necessary to address this task were not adequately addressed, in particular, the question of who would provide the involved suspects with insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, who would cover the cost of food between work and transport to work. In this way, it is expected to be provided by social work centres which do not have the means envisaged. Those who are supposed to be employers, as well as those funds, are not expected and do not want to take them into their own burden. I therefore draw attention to these issues, on the grounds that they would be careful when changes and amendments to the law start to take place in order to follow these problems as well, and if the warnings prove justified, the solutions that we, I must say, have not necessarily been adopted carefully enough on the home labour body, and subsequently supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure is another in a series of proposals that are adopted by emergency procedure and are poorly prepared. It is exclusively for the applicant to rule out another law in the list, using the urgency procedure, in order otherwise to have difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. We are aware that time limits must be taken into account, but changes and additions must be made qualitatively on the basis of wider professional coordination and assuming that changes bring greater effectiveness to the law in practice as well. In particular, this is so much more important because changes touch on human rights, their protection, which we consider to be very sensitive to once, and secondly we eliminate them with our very left hand. The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which has drawn up a number of opinions and initiatives, has also expressed disappointment at the proposal, which should be a signal to Members that we cannot make a good law out of a bad proposal as legislators. The applicant fully deviated from the planned changes with regard to the provision of contradiction in the appeal procedure against the decision, which would lead to a clearer application of the provisions within the competence of the Prosecutor, which is also recalled by the Constitutional Court decision. Changes in the complaint to the hearings have also fallen, although they could have contributed significantly to the reduced proceedings. Thus, the novelty has been reduced to those areas that are changing and complementary only because of a Constitutional Court decision, since it is a matter of repealing certain provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the expulsion of a judge, then because of the disguised investigative measures that have now been regulated by the Police Act and are also bound by a Constitutional Court decision, because of changes on the basis of the provisions of international conventions, because of the simplified extradition procedure under the European Union Convention and because of the expansion of the possibility of settlement and the law enforcement institute. In the financial implications section, the applicant argues that the changes and additions do not constitute additional financial implications for the State budget, whereas in the settlement procedures and the case of the institution of deferred prosecution it indicates this possibility, but wants to be regulated within the budget lines of the Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office states in its letter that the amended provisions in the field of covert investigations will increase the work of state prosecutors. However, settlement costs will also increase and the funds cannot be redistributed. In our New Slovenia Group, we oppose the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. We are aware, and we are also reminded of this by the profession, that such a hurry cannot bring about in-depth debates and debates, which is essential for the adoption of quality legislation. But the quality of this national council has been gone for a long time. Members of Parliament are only a service that deals only with what they prepare and accepts what they say. We can't land like this. Just as we have only gone into a limited amendment to the penal code, we are also amending the criminal procedure law only in part, although amendments, in particular the provisions of the appeal, and any other provisions, could make a significant contribution to the reduction of proceedings. We would do much of this because the longevity of the proceedings is a great flaw in our judiciary. Our Group of Members has tabled three amendments to Article 8. Since this is a sensitive area, as I have already said, of human rights, we are trying to shorten our hands and raise our legal standards and thus achieve a better balance between intervention in human rights on the one hand and, on the other, to achieve effective prosecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia [[...]] [[He doesn't want Mr. Lavrinz.]] Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u153	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is sad that laws, which should represent one of the more important substances in the context of judicial content, are adopted together in this manner. Why are we doing this? I fear that the answer is very simple: because we want to show and unlock in statistics, as the speaker correctly stated before me, just and only the number of laws we have adopted. I think that the law before us today is one of those laws that could contribute to greater efficiency of the judiciary on the one hand and, on the other hand, to greater fairness of the trial in our country. But I am sorry that neither the government nor the National Assembly, all of us do not accept these two principles as those arguments that would lead to the adoption or non-adoption of the law. The law before us was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at a written meeting. The National Assembly shall adopt it in accordance with an emergency procedure. We all know that the law is not harmonised between the Ministry and the Attorney General's Office, but this does not bother us at this point because we have a wrong objective before our eyes, unfortunately. This aim is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with decisions of the Constitutional Court or with the substance of European Union law. I think it's wrong. According to my assessment and/or assessment, the National Party should pursue the objective of fairness of the trial and the objective of effective functioning of the Slovenian judiciary. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that the law is written on the basis of two decisions of the Constitutional Court and that the content of the law follows both of the requirements set out in the decision; that the law is written for reasons of compliance with the criminal law and for the purpose of adapting European legislation. In view of the content, at least in the National Party, we are convinced that if we want the Slovenian judiciary to gain efficiency, we should take the measure that we have already proposed to you, that is a limitation of the judicial mandate. Unfortunately, you do not have a hearing in the government or in the National Assembly for this sort of resolution of judicial backlogs. We will have to get used to or learn slowly in Slovenia what the interest of politics is. Unfortunately, the interest of politics is not to create an effective judiciary. If I go back to the content of that law, our assessment of the basis of the content of the law follows two objectives. The first objective is supposed to be a visual objective, namely the effectiveness of the judiciary, the jurisdiction of the courts and, on the other hand, the law follows the substance of human rights. But precisely because the law is written in a very short time, because the law is both in the government and in the national assembly - or today in the national assembly - it will be adopted by a procedure that does not allow in-depth analysis, we estimate that these two objectives will be excluded from each other because of the empty content of this law. Unfortunately, this will also happen, believe that this time, the National Party's Group of Members, the work on human rights protection will be complicated. We are confident that the objective of better protection of human rights in society or in the professional public will be to continue the path in the form of longer trials. For the fact is that in Slovenia today we have several managers who participate in the judiciary, especially lawyers who know how to use every content as inappropriate as the law suggests. According to our assessment, the law will, of course, lose contact with the real problems in our society, the fact that it will be abused in the field of protection or the enhancement of human rights, which will mean in practice longer debates or debates without end in terms of ensuring human rights that are not appropriate and I am sorry that they are not appropriate, as well as judicial complications, which I also believe should not be legalised by this National Assembly. Finally, what we are most opposed to in the National Party is to reduce efficiency. But, of course, at this point, this State Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, is legislating less efficiency just under the pretext of so-called human rights, which are not, of course, appropriate. Another would be if human rights were granted, but at the moment, by this law you gave weapons exclusively to good lawyers to delay judicial backlogs or judicial cases under the pretext of human rights. This is why we cannot give such support or support to this law in the National Party. Once again, I am sorry that we are adopting laws in such a swift manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are now moving on to a second reading, on the bench you have the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 8. I am opening the debate on Article 8 and the amendments. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment to Article 8 which speaks in fact of secret observation, with this amendment, we wanted to shorten the deadline, because it seems to us that a three-year period means too much interference with personal rights and because we can also create an image of an individual's life at that time, which seems and is constitutionally unacceptable. We therefore propose that the tenth paragraph of Article 149a be amended to read: "Implementation of the measure may take up to a maximum of two months and, for substantial reasons, its duration by written order may be extended every one month. Such a measure may, together, last for the first time in the case referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article for a maximum period of three months. And a second time. In the case referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, a maximum of six months." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u157	Well, briefly, I would like to say that we do not support these amendments, which are tabled under Article 8. The first part, or first amendment, is in the direction of shortening the time envisaged for certain measures, in particular secret observation. In particular, I would like to point out that such measures so far or in the existing law on police have no time limit. Another time. To follow the Constitutional Court's decision to impose such measures on the State Prosecutor's Office every two months and that the total duration is also limited. That there is a whole range of safeguards that can be repealed here, and also comparatively and legally, I can claim that the laws of European countries know similar measures, defined even more broadly, without time constraints and with a relatively low level of those who can impose such measures, so on the level of the middle police officers. With regard to the second amendment, we are convinced that the reasons for suspicion are a sufficiently high evidence standard for obtaining data only, rather than interfering with the content of telecommunications. And then there's the third. We are of the opinion that it would not be right to delete the second paragraph of Article 149a. This enables a person who is not a suspect to be observed in very limited cases and under additional conditions. This comes under all the conditions set out here, for example, from Article 40 of the Schengen Convention, which even provides for cross-border police cooperation in such measures. I certainly stress that in Article 149a, paragraph 6, she is also an additional guardian, as such a secret observation must be ordered by an investigative judge and not by a state prosecutor. Of course, time limits are also sharp. For such reasons, we do not support the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss the debate anymore, I am concluding and moving on to a decision on the amendments. First of all, the amendments under order number 1. Just a warning, the amendment under order number 3 has been amended by the Group of Members. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 8. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 10 votes against 38. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 8. Vote explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u159	In our parliamentary group in the second amendment to Article 8, which relates to Article 149.b, we would like to consolidate the word 'explanatory reasons' with the word'reasonable'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 12 votes against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And then there's the amendment under 3. An explanation of Mrs. Zupan's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, the third amendment to Article 8 would explain. We believe that it is incomprehensible to extend specific methods and resources to persons who are not suspected of crime services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that we have not received any notice as to the consistency of the law. We're voting on the law! There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON Proposal for a Protocol Ratification Act amending the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters, so we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting! There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON On the contrary, a bill on the ratification of United Nations Concences against an internationally organised criminal. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. He was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and informed the assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Nor are the amendments tabled; the law is not inconsistent, so we are going to vote on the law. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Statute of the European Schools. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The party of young Slovenia has been notified, but the Members are not here. No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body, so there is no discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Vote explanation, Mrs. Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will support the law on ratification of the Convention on the Statute of European Schools. The system of European schools is a system of a specific type for the joint education of children of the staff of the European institutions and therefore States Parties shall provide the necessary resources for their operation. The status is limited to ten schools, none of which are located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and children of employees from the Republic of Slovenia who are employed in the institutions of the European Union and other communities will also be able to attend them. Since there is no Slovenian among the languages in which the educational programmes are implemented, our country's concern must be that Slovenian children who will be included in these programmes will be given at least the opportunity for additional Slovenian education. Since the statute allows for the establishment of new schools, I expect that if we set up such a school with us, the Slovenian state will be able to ensure the right status for Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? Yes, you can. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the international convention on civil liability for fuel damage, 2001 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no announced debaters, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 27th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on conditional access to protected electronic services. On Monday 5.4, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a legislative decision. I'm also informing you that I don't have any notice of non-compliance with the law. Protected electronic services. We're voting. No, I'm terminating the vote. Mr Minister, the question is, we are considering a law on conditional access to secure electronic services, we are in third reading. Is the law in harmony? I'm sorry, even though we're all tired and the session lasts a week. Mr Minister reminds me that in the third reading the government has tabled, no - in the annex we send you the harmonisation amendment, namely, in Article 3(2) of the Law on conditional access to protected electronic services, the word 'uncoded' is replaced by the word 'comprehensible and usable'. Explanation: The Committee of the National Assembly, following a discussion on the proposal by the proposer, adopted a substantive identical amendment to Article 4, paragraph 2, before 5 and replaced the word 'uncoordinated' with the word 'comprehensible and usable' by explaining that the word 'non-coordinated' has several technical meanings, which could lead to certain difficulties in implementing the law. As the word 'uncoded' appears also in point 3 we propose that the change of dictatorship should also extend to point 3 as follows from the amendment proposal. You're just getting this text on the bench that I just read myself. You want us to wait? Can we move to a vote on the harmonisation amendment? I'm putting it in the debate first. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Now we can go to the vote on the law. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the bill on changes and additions to the excise law. At yesterday's meeting, the assembly adopted that law in its entirety and, due to some concerns, suspended the consideration of the two proposals for decisions proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the National Assembly. I propose that the National Assembly decide on these decisions today, and I will request an interpretation of the business commission to act in future on the need to vote on the content of these decisions at the meeting of the assembly. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt decisions to conclude that the draft laws proposed by the MEPs are not suitable for further discussion. I can make proposals to the Decisions This is the business provision of the National Assembly. [[...]] So, at the vote of the next decision, the proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law, second reading, EPA 1322 /II is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I also put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law, second reading, EPA 127-III is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. And thus the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And the last item on the agenda before is the law on amendments to the law on copyright and related rights. We're in third reading. Two amendments have been tabled, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which states: In the new Article 44, in the first paragraph, the words 'internal arrangement of spaces' are replaced by 'this work' and in the third paragraph the word 'public' is replaced by 'public'. And to Article 6 of the amendment of the three LDS, the United List and DeSUS groups, in the text that paragraph 44 should be amended so as to read first paragraph: The owner of the constructed architecture can do this work free of charge. Second paragraph: In implementing the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the owner must respect the author's right to respect for work. Third paragraph: When an object has been awarded in a public contest, the owner must obtain the consent of the author. The owner’s consent may result in disproportionate costs or significantly prolong processing times. Explanation: The amendment takes into account both the rights of the author and the interests of the owner of the facility, with a special interest in protecting the works that have received the award for architectural achievements in the public contest. In this case, the author’s consent is necessary and must not require disproportionate compensation. I am opening a debate on these two amendments. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u165	Before voting on the amendment, I would like to receive an answer, either to the applicants or to the governments, whether the copyright, as defined in the second paragraph of Article 44, is the author's right to respect for work, or whether it is a category that exists within copyright because we know moral and material copyright. But I don't see how we would know the author's right to respect work. At the same time, the third paragraph would need an answer to the question of what and who the arbitrator is in understanding "the disproportionateity of costs", or "to significantly extend the processing time". What are the criteria for conflicts here? And also an assessment of what it means for all those objects that were not obtained in a public competition that do not fall under this category. At the same time, I would explain my interpretation and my vision of the Article 6 infringement as a possible use of directives relating to the information society, but not to the field of copyright, in the field of architecture, because I think that the Information Society Directive interferes with the technological regulation of issues related to new technologies. The question, however, is whether, if I give the case, it is likely to be thought of as an intervention to an object, such as this national assembly, when we are talking about microphones and communication interventions, and the question, if in the copyright service. In short, two questions should be answered under this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Wrenk's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u167	Thank you. The Law on Copyright and Related Rights sets out in section 19 the right to respect for work. The author shall have the exclusive right to object to fraud and to any other intervention in his or her work or to any use of his or her work if these actions or such use could distort his or her personality. That's moral justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please. Mr. Wrenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u169	The arbitrator for the properties of this is, as you said before, the legal standards that prove themselves in court. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I have some doubts about the third indent of Article 6. In fact, when the facility was awarded at a public course, the owner must obtain the author's consent and so on. The fact is that in the 1950s, for example, buildings were built according to very different standards and also according to different aesthetic criteria. Thus, the fact that an object has been awarded at a public competition at some time does not mean that it is in fact a quality artistic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u174	Just a few more moments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u175	I ask the proposer of the amendment, the last sentence of point 3: "The consent of the owners shall not lead to a disproportionate cost or a substantial extension of the processing time." These are no criteria. "Difference" - tell me what the criterion is. "Battery" and "adequate" are not any criteria. I'll give you an appropriate explanation when we were building the Sochi Bridge primary school we got remains of Celtic graves. We haven't been able to build in 18 years. It's not about copyright, but it's either the writing of a criterion or the writing of nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to say another word, we're going to make a decision. The amendment is being ruled out. We will first decide on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 6; if adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 33 votes against 9. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I ask the representative of the government and the legal and legislative service if there has been a possible lack of legal consistency, can we move on to a decision? Mr. Wrenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u177	We haven't been informed of any discrepancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u178	It's okay, things are in sync. Thank you very much. So we can go to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 38 votes against 4. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members, I wish you a beautiful Easter holiday! Goodbye!
