ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	It's 16 and a minute later. First of all, I would like to thank everyone politely because we are all patiently trying to bring the meeting to an end. We are at the last four points on which we must decide. But before that, of course, I'm asking you to come to the hall. Please take your seats. As we have now concluded in college, we will decide on the point. Presence in the hall is therefore necessary, including for making decisions. Before we proceed, I would like to inform you that, and of course, today specifically justified, several more colleagues and colleagues are absent, as they could not have anticipated today's continuation of the meeting. These are colleagues: Battelli, Bozič, Brejc, Brenčič, Diaci, Drobnič, Juban, Fabjan, Germič, Horvat, Kacin, Kangler, Levič, Peterle, Rokavec, Spindler, colleague of Pozsončev, as well as colleague Beumann. So these apologies are, of course, accepted. As it is said, we did not plan this meeting today, but it was imperative to end it, the very fact that the other points were so extensive. We're at the 11th item of the agenda. I see that there are not enough colleagues and colleagues in the hall to decide. I just want to remind you, we are here on the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme. It was a matter of voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Chapter 6.4.3. My friend Kelemin asked me yesterday if this was a business possibility. We have received an explanation that this is a business possibility, that we have done so. However, it will be up to the national assembly to decide whether this harmonisation amendment will be adopted or not. I will therefore put this harmonisation amendment to Chapter 6.4.3. to the vote. Right now, I don't think there's enough colleagues and colleagues in the hall. I already said yesterday, and once again, none of us have planned a meeting today, so we understand each other, but I am asking precisely for this understanding that everyone who is in the National Assembly, to come to the Hall and allow us to make these decisions to the end. Right now, we're not enough in the hall. I also ask everyone to check the functioning of the voting devices. We must, of course, conclude the meeting. If we don't do it today, then we'll have to do it tomorrow or Friday, certainly before the start of the extraordinary session. First time I'll check on the presence. We are in the decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Chapter 6.4.3., on the 11th item of the agenda, when proposing a resolution on the national energy programme. Please see how the voting device works. We're voting! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the vote. Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I don't think we're in the decision-making business yet. Yesterday, colleague Kelemina asked for a business explanation of this, you said the answer and I do not think the debate was concluded with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Please, if you want the word, you have it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	I would like to say that I am protesting against such a way of working because this is not the harmonisation amendment that we have received on the table by the government, but this is an amendment to the third reading amendment. I do not think that the procedure afforded by the government at this stage of the procedure is permissible anymore. In view of the fact that this was an independent amendment, that it referred to a composite item, that it was adopted by a large majority or even adopted, not only that it was a large majority, but also that the government should distribute values within the table. This amendment, which was adopted, did not completely break any balance within the law. Only in this table on the page, I think yes 76, would have to distribute individual values within 14 billion. And it was the duty of the proposer, the government, and its harmonisation amendment. Now, by procedure or amendment, they are correcting the passed amendment. I think it's a procedurally unacceptable act. I propose that the point be terminated, that the point be suspended and that the government prepare a new harmonisation amendment, which will be commercially corrected and not as it is. Since this is an abuse of procedure, an abuse of the rules of procedure, and I think that all the discussions about who has any rights are meaningless, if this is the case, I would say that the evident way is in breach of the rules of procedure and the pre-written rules of the game.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Can I ask the head of the legislature if he comes to the hall? I've already asked her to be ready for this. It is probably right for her to give an explanation of the College here to the National Assembly. Certainly, therefore, it would not be contrary to the rules of procedure if we decided today. And I'm going to ask Mrs. Beatenchev to briefly explain that. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As I have already informed the members of the College, under the new business regime, the government and the legal and regulatory services can draw their own attention to non-compliance. In the event that the Government draws attention to non-compliance, it also proposes amendments as a proposal. The legislative and legal service has no business ability to assess whether the harmonisation amendments are controversial in terms of coordination. Coordination has always taken place in a number of possible ways. Thus, from this point of view, we cannot challenge professionally, but we cannot formally define ourselves as harmonised amendments from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. So the National Assembly will vote on Colleague Sok, would you like a word? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As soon as this amendment was adopted, it was clear that you would try to undo it in some way. And of course that's what happened now. You're trying this through the coordination amendment procedure. Of course, we all know that this is not about the harmonisation amendment, but in fact about the abuse that we are witnessing in this national assembly, in fact, increasingly. As we get closer to the end of our term of office, we are more often witnessing that this Rules of Procedure are being misused and interpreted in an appropriate way. The correct harmonisation amendment would, of course, be different, but not what was adopted in the previous reading, now we really cancel and say, we have made a mistake, we have voted wrong, and now this needs to be rectified. However, as far as the national energy programme is concerned, I would like to say that these funds the government has made available for this purpose, of course, cannot be implemented and, in fact, this government will still have a headache when you are unable to comply with what you have signed in the Kyoto Protocol. This program, as recorded, cannot be implemented. Look, you've set very high expectations for renewable energy. You're talking about solar energy, wind energy, geo thermal energy, bio mass, diesel fuel. All of this is recorded in this energy programme. I will also tell you today, on the basis of a very good public presentation of the opinions I have followed and listened to, that it is easy to do so with this money which is available in this resolution. This resolution remains largely based on the consumption of fossil fuels and, of course, on the production of large quantities of greenhouse gases. And you gentlemen in the government who signed the Kyoto Protocol in 2002, you will not be the one who will have to defend yourself and also tell why the Republic of Slovenia cannot reduce what you have signed. If this is to be achieved, then, of course, renewable energy resources should be increased, particularly by investing in hydropower. What you have written in the national programme on the basis of the amendment to build a nuclear power plant with Croatia is what I think, if I may say so, a mirage. This, of course, will not be fulfilled and this expectation is completely, I will say, unrealistic and, at this point, wrong. It is irresponsible to be blinded and accept such an energy programme. We in New Slovenia will not support this energy programme for this reason, and I now announce that we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	I understand we can move on to a decision. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. President, I must protest here. This is a new form of government arrogance or a mockery of us here in this House. See, so far, the practice of harmonisation has been an amendment if there have been some differences or inconsistencies between individual articles. Then it is understandable that this is a harmonisation amendment. But it didn't happen here. And this is where the correction came in, to correct what we have already accepted with some other amendment. And that's not a discrepancy. It's a substantive matter. This is a substantive matter, and there can now be no harmonisation amendment to return and put this money back into the budget, in total. This is a matter of substance. This is not a harmonisation amendment. I understand the legal-legislative representative that she said that. It's really not her job. In fact, she also said that it was a matter of substance, not of harmonisation. If this was about coordination, I'd make it clear. It is clear that her words are perfectly clear and speak of the government making fun of us here to make a substantive correction of what we have accepted. And that's not even a match. This is unacceptable because this can become a pattern for the future. That's what this is about. Therefore, something needs to be said now, and action must be taken. After all, I don't care if it's my government, and I don't care if it's my government. That's not working. Because that's where the stables come in. And because then everyone can do as he pleases. Those who have multiple votes do not care what is voted here, what is the content here. Everyone's going to go in the end with the harmonisation amendment after the third reading. That's not how it works. That's why I'm protesting. The content could be one or another. But if we voted that, it can't be a harmonisation amendment as a fourth reading because it's a substantive matter. President, I appeal to you to try to intervene here in any way you can. I don't know how you can do that right now, but you probably have some kind of defense that doesn't come to that. It is also the reputation of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Look, I'm sure not you, but I'm not indifferent. Yesterday, my colleague Kelemina opened it, which is why we even broke off yesterday's work. We would probably have finished the remaining items of the agenda yesterday and closed the meeting. But I said, rather than be wrong, you should focus on legal and legal work. My question is still whether there are reservations that the procedure cannot continue. No, they went to college, and they were here, and there's no such thing as reservations. However, the National Assembly will decide by a majority whether or not this National Assembly harmonisation amendment is acceptable. Comrade Jerovšek, then Minister. If this is not accepted, the matter will return to the competent working body. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr. President! Our amendment was legally, commercially accepted. I hope that you will protect the dignity of this national assembly and that you will not allow the general destruction of the rule of law and the rules of procedure in this national assembly. This would be such a dangerous precedent to reject and evaluate, under the auspices of the harmonisation amendment, the amendment of a parliamentary group which has been voted on. I hope there are some lawyers here that at least those of you will establish some kind of relationship with the rules of business. Mr President, once again, I stress. It is not necessary to consult with lawyers, this natural law requires and instructs everyone that this way can not be done, then we are already close to introducing a dictatorship where in some other forum it has decided what will be adopted, in what form and then in between all different solutions, but in the end, a body, I don't know who, decides that it will be in that form. [[...]] I am not saying who is now a member of this Greme, but, Mr President, I recall that you have tried several times to protect the dignity of this National Assembly. I know you are under pressure, but insist, be upright and prevent us from going to a vote on such an amendment, which is obviously anti-business and anti-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Let me tell you first. Nobody told me anything about this except yesterday, Comrade Kelemin. His warning was enough to put an end to the debate. I got an explanation without getting anything else or pressure or temptation. I don't think there's any reservations. If I had personally thought that they were, I would have either moved to the next session, because this is in three days, or suggested not to vote on this. I've received sufficient assurances that I have no doubt we can decide. The Minister has a word now, and then Comrade Tanka, if I see it correctly. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. This amendment, which you proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, consisted of two parts. First, it changed the sum of some items to promote renewable energy sources and the efficient use of energy, which I am referring to, six or seven items. Each is precisely defined by the amount. The total is about 6 billion and a half. And you just wrote in the amendment: the total is not 6 billion and a half, but it is 14 billion. Of course, such a summation, which ultimately gives a result that is twice as high, cannot be mathematically correct. And I'm sorry that your amendment didn't self-distribute or predict an increase in the amounts on individual items, which would end up consistently giving a larger sum. You didn't do it, so it seems to me that the government is irresponsible. It is irresponsible that the amendment was not specific, but it had only a total of different sums, which was just meant to do so. 7 billion, to say the least, should be different for 7 billion, but, of course, the responsible doing of alu should be responsible doing. And since you have not proposed this specification, of course, we are now proposing in the harmonisation amendment that we go back to the old set. The second part of your amendment, which spoke about the allocation of up to 30% of the investment, we left in, we couldn't, although we didn't support the amendment, but it was accepted. It is not inconsistent with anything in the national energy programme, and in our proposal for a harmonisation amendment, we have not proposed deleting that, although we do not like it. So I think it's just a really basic math operation here, the sum of numbers that is before this total sum, just needs to be fixed. If this amendment had not been adopted, each elementary school student would have been able to calculate that the national assembly has simply been miscalculated by six, seven numbers, twice. We therefore propose this harmonisation amendment. But when you said, why didn't the government itself distribute these 7 billion by its own volition, scattered by various items. That would just be irresponsible. That would be contrary to the will of the National Assembly. The National Assembly made a very clear statement on the structure of this amount. At that time, we could be told that we are trying to change the content already adopted in the third reading in the fourth reading. Well, by the way, as far as the Kyoto Protocol is concerned. The Kyoto Protocol has very little to do with what we are now saying. The reductions in the coming years by 2008 will be published on the Internet, I think tomorrow or tomorrow, so that the national energy programme will be helpful, but it is not a key document. Moreover, Mr Sok, the Kyoto Protocol was not signed in 2002, as you said, it was signed in 1997 and ratified in 2002. At that time, you voted for ratification by all, without a vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Comrade Tanko, then Comrade Sok. Would you like a word, Comrade Tank? [[You didn't want to.]] My friend Sok, I'm sorry. And you are? Well, I give you my word. And then there's Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. She's a little restless, but it's hard to hear. What I have been able to understand about this noise and your very kind of silent speech is that you have made it clear that it is a correction of the number that has been voted on and for which the National Assembly has clearly expressed its opinion and expressed its will by voting. The fact is, you should coordinate within the table. All that has been written in individual indents for the URE subsidy, for OVEs, demonstration projects and so on, various other sources of energy, should be corrected within the table. And that would be a alignment with what was adopted. Now, you are proposing that what we have clearly voted as a correction in the National Assembly, with what you call a correction, you correct back to the old value. It's not a match. You should put all these things, which are within almost 7 billion, back to 14 billion. And that would be adaptation, adaptation or alignment with the value that was clearly accepted - undoubtedly accepted! We can take a look at the ballot. And what you're doing with this amendment right now is unfair, is abuse. That's one problem. The other problem is that of the funds collected by this country, you allocate only half for this dedicated part, the other half is an integral part of the integrated budget and will be lost for non-target projects, I do not know what research tasks and studies and not for investments in energy matters. All these delays that we've been producing in the last 20 years, we're just going to extend and drag on. And when we talk about the efficient use of energy, a lot of words have been said here, a lot of words, a key item in all non-governmental organisations was the very efficient use of energy and renewable energy. And now with what you have proposed, with this change exactly what should be the key interest of this country, you correct and minimize. That's right! And what you're doing is incorrect, abuse of the rules of procedure, so to speak, domestic law, house rules for the work of this institution. It's a shame that we don't stick to things that have been adopted in the future. It is a pity that each session is convened and each item on the agenda, if matters can be balanced. I propose that this harmonisation amendment withdraw and that a new harmonisation amendment be written because this is not a harmonisation amendment. This is a correction of the decision taken. In this national assembly, at least by the end of the term, these matters that we still have to accept, at least in some way we will have a hygienic conclusion, if we can't do otherwise, procedural hygiene, if we're already at variance in the substantive works.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that in Novi Slovenija we are more than an abuse of the rules of procedure, we are already used to it, we are more concerned that Slovenia will not carry out what it has committed. I'll tell you right now, Mr. Secretary. Slovenia signed the Kyoto Protocol on 21 October 1998 and ratified it on 2 August 2002. This, however, obliges us to reduce greenhouse gases by 8% in 2008-2012, according to the quantity we produced in 1986. Over the last year, the amount of greenhouse gases has been increasing, and it's not decreasing. If such a procedure goes at such a pace, how will you ensure that we fulfill what we have accepted? Either we keep talking, I don't know, America didn't sign, and now we are, and because they didn't sign, we don't have to do it. They have not signed, and the matters of this Protocol are being implemented, and they are going in this direction. When they do, they will demand the same from all those who have signed it. Mr. Lukich, please, if you don't mind. What we have adopted shows that the National Assembly is aware that the means for renewable energy must be increased, because what you have foreseen in this resolution is significantly insufficient. You, for example, put the use of solar energy at a high level in the resolution, so to speak, solar energy, and for subsidies in this area you will devote annually 290 million tolars. What can we do about it? I don't think it's anything or not much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Good. I'd have one suggestion, then my colleague Sok. I thought you were done. Procedural proposal that we stop the point here and move on to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	If, as President, you are going to advocate that we respect the rules of procedure and that the harmonisation amendment is as it should be, then I am ready to end this debate. However, I would like to tell you, of course, that at these points, such as this energy programme is set up, it is not possible to seriously implement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	I would then then propose, in accordance with Article 74, as the next meeting will begin on Monday, so that there is really no doubt as to whether this item will then be considered at the beginning of the next meeting, i.e. the first paragraph of Article 74. If the National Assembly adopts this proposal, we will therefore postpone this decision to the start of the next meeting. And I also make such a procedural proposal to the National Assembly. Please check the voting devices. We are voting on this procedural proposal. This proposal has been adopted, of which 42 are in favour and 1 is in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] We'll think about it one more time. None of us want to, nor does the minister and the government want to make decisions that would have a shadow of doubt. Otherwise, I don't think they have it, and we could decide today, but fine. Let's have two brakes rather than gas on things. 8. Agenda item - Third defense proposal for a law on environmental protection. On Wednesday, 24 of this month, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, at the proposal of the drafter of the law, that we should proceed today or at the end of this third meeting. Now we have the harmonisation amendments. You have them in front of you. Can you take them before you do? This is a document dated 30.03. Document containing the harmonisation amendments to Article 66, Article 67, Article 136 and Article 196. We will gradually decide on these harmonisation amendments. The harmonisation amendment to Article 66 will first be on the agenda. Vote, compliance amendment. 52 present, 40 for, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. Article 67, the harmonisation amendment. We're not enough or we're not careful enough. Article 67, the harmonisation amendment, secondly. May I have your attention, paragraph 67? 49 present, 40 for, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. The third in line is Article 136, the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. 46 present, 37 for, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. Finally, Article 196. We're voting. We're having a little trouble with the device, and she's tired, too. We're voting. Article 196 51 present, 41 for, none against. (The vote was 41. )(Nobody.) Roger that. Now we're going to decide the whole law. Explanation of voice. Comrade Tanko, then Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I will not support this law because there is little or no funding to solve environmental problems. In the last reading, in Article 110, we deleted a sentence stating that the funds raised by environmental taxes were entirely earmarked for the rescue or reduction of the environment. The new dictatorship allows the government or the minister to allocate funds for the regulation of environmental measures in a manner that sets out any height, as a rule, less and less than the fees collected for the purpose. In this case, we will write and write down a similar solution as the solution to the gas toll. We will write down, the unintended use of funds, the remainder will be lost in the integrated budget for projects and purposes that will be linked to anyone. Another issue that is also problematic in this law is fundraising at the state level. This means that funds will be collected from the peripheral local environment in the state budget. These funds will be returned in a certain amount through calls for proposals. All of this, so to speak, regional money will be collected by large centres to solve their problems. And these big centers don't know how to handle money. All the key problems of Slovenian municipalities are concentrated in large municipalities, which do not know how to deal with money and will not be well spent here as well. And the other thing is, concessions are a problem. The government has decided to grant concessions free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	The law on environmental protection. Explanation of voice. Comrade Petan? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide the whole marriage. We're voting. Peace. The law on environmental protection is in the vote. 53 present, 42 in, 8 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The law has been passed. The point is closed. We're at 27. The agenda points, in the latter case, are the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Nature Protection. We are in the middle of an emergency procedure at third reading. Just a minute. You have under number 27 the document of 30.3. where the Infrastructure Committee makes two amendments. They're both redacted. Pardon, Slovenian People's Party Group and United Nations Group. I'm sorry. I looked at my head. Excuse me? Yeah, they're both fixed editorially. Both amendments are edited. First of all, at the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, you have an amendment signed by Comrade Podobnik. When correcting the ZLSD Group of Members, a correction signed by colleague Weber. If we have all the documents in front of us, we can move on to a decision. I propose that we first proceed to the decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5 and then to order number 2 to Article 5. Anyone else want a word before that? [[No, no, ……]] May the state's Yes, please, colleague Weber. [[...]] Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	In the second reading, I have announced the amendment to Article 5 and I can conclude that the findings were correct in the second reading, so that in this article and this law, in addition to the specific protection areas covered by Nature 2000, the Commission in the European Union is also empowered to determine specific protection areas or through domestic parks in the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that representatives of local communities also participate in these procedures, as they are extremely large areas envisaged for the insurance of one or the other measures. The solutions provided for in the amendment allow local communities to cooperate and also require governments to draw up a plan to identify the consequences that will arise in the local community due to insurance and, of course, to provide for measures to address the social and economic conditions that may cause protection in these protected areas. This is a significantly more viable solution, which also takes into account the local population, so I propose that these amendments be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Comrade Sok, Comrade Terchon. Comrade Sok first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we are predicting that we will support these two amendments. In the debate itself, we have pointed out that the explanation for this law states that this law has no direct financial implications. At the same time, we already know that on the basis of Nature 2000 we will have to declare large areas in the Republic of Slovenia special protection areas, of course with a special protection regime. It is quite clear that financial resources will have to be provided for this purpose. Since the proposaler says that this law will have no direct financial implications, we would point out that this cannot be the case. For this reason, we also support these two amendments so that local people or local communities can participate in these procedures. However, I have already explained to the Minister in the debate my experience with the Golden Star, and I have also told him what this law will actually bring with regard to this European directive and what its consequences will be. I therefore suggest that the other two amendments be supported as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Comrade Tarchon, behind you, Comrade Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll support both amendments myself. I think it was necessary that we take the time and that we have also prepared the amendment and that we will also incorporate into this law the cooperation of local communities in some way. I would also like to illustrate this in the case of when I learned and when they were, I must say, co-workers at the Ministry are so kind that they showed me all the matters related to Natura 2000, which is a document that has not had a public debate and which will be adopted by the government. This can be illustrated in very short words, in the time I was very cheaply dosed, in the case of Kras, which after Natura 2000 is protected 99% of which three quarters are in Slovenia, in Italy about one quarter and where they protected 10%. And I don't understand how a tree can be protected in Slovenia without knowing where the border is, and in Italy it can't be, and where we have to protect only the area of Lipica and the Škocjan caves, if we go according to the criteria that experts in Italy have taken. We argue that this has been done by experts, so I ask you whether we have a professional in Slovenia alone and it is not in Italy, whether it is the other way around and what criteria are being applied, given that this will be a document based on the European level. I think, Mr Minister, that we are dealing with the ultrafundamentalism of the nature-protection profession in Slovenia. That is why we also have such vast areas,38% of Slovenia protected, which is most in Europe, in that we have one of the most dispersed settlements and that we do not have such a case in Europe, that we have, say, 99% of Kras protected on the Italian side where the same Kras is not protected 10%. Please, Mr. Minister, take this further. [[End warning sign]] to take into account what professions we are talking about to sober up and make European comparable categories, because this is not a European comparable category.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Time!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	I understand, Mr. President. I'll get it over with. I agree with the amendments. I will also support the law. However, I hope that there will also be an interest in the public, the local community, in further discussions on these documents, and that we will also place a human being in these areas and not just everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I understand that this is still a debate on the amendments that they are not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Otherwise, we went to the vote, so it was an explanation of vote, because I asked if anyone wanted a word and they didn't want it. So you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	All right, all right. I will also support these two amendments myself for a simple reason, because it is the fact that all protected areas are as far as cultural landscape is concerned. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	There's too much unrest in the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	As regards the cultural landscape in the countryside, on the periphery, this is where demographic and other economic problems are greatest. [[...]] And the fact is, the people who live there must be given certain opportunities to compensate them for the restrictions imposed by the protected areas. The fact is that whatever and wherever we secure things, whether it is nature or anything else, cultural heritage, brings these certain limitations, brings these restrictions to those who are paying for the cadastral income and limit their use of space, is no longer possible rational and economic use, but limited use. The fact is, these two amendments are trying to solve at least part of the things that are envisaged. I think it's only right that you support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	Does anyone else want to explain their vote before I put the first amendment to Article 5 to the vote? I've got a visual on my colleague, Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I think it was right that this article of the Nature Conservation Act was widely re-elected here in the National Assembly. Of course, I would also like to place a little emphasis on the other side of the medal. I think we can be proud in Slovenia that we have so many areas that we can claim that we need to keep them at the level we have. Initially, Natura 2000 speaks of conservation areas within which special protection areas are in accordance with the Birds Directive. Of course, it is probably a relief to the Italians because they have destroyed so much in the past that they no longer have anything to preserve. And maintaining our natural value is also one of the opportunities of Slovenia within the European Union in certain economic areas, particularly tourism. However, I agree with all those colleagues that it is necessary to balance such protective conditions, conservation conditions and, of course, development in other areas of our activity. Thank you very much. I support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	I take it that no one wants a word to explain their vote anymore. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5. The applicant is the SLS Group of Members. This amendment is also editorially corrected, and I put it to the vote. Please. Peace. 54 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment under order number 2 to Article 5 was tabled by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. I'm putting him to the vote. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall. 52 present, 49 for and one against. (For the vote was 49.)(against one.) This is how we have done the vote on the amendments. We can move on because I have no information that the text would be uncoordinated, to a decision on the nature law, to a vote. We are voting on the nature conservation law. 54 present, 44 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. The final decision, or final point, is ahead of us, point 10. Here we will consider on the basis of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 25.3. Proposal for a Decision in accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. First, shall we ask if the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Procedurally, mate Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the third point should not be addressed as long as the proceedings concerning the referendum are ongoing. That is why we have already expressed our opposition in due time to this point to begin, because this is clearly a violation of the rules of procedure. The time to place another point instead of this, some other point that you now include, is a referendum issue which, of course, has no direct connection with the law in this sense to represent an amendment or something like that. It is quite clear that there is a clear violation of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. For it is said that the agenda of the national assembly shall be adopted before the beginning of the meeting, and then it is time for each item to be withdrawn or the agenda to be extended. None of this was done. As a result, it is unacceptable that the agenda or one item should be replaced by another item in the middle of the meeting. Everything shows, as we have seen at the interpellations of both ministers, that this government cannot work, cannot rule without breaking the laws and the constitution. It all shows that, despite the fact that the majority of governments have such a strong two-thirds majority, they cannot work in the National Assembly without significantly violating the rules of procedure. At the same time, of course, it should be noted that all the deadlines for the start of the signature collection have expired. The Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative explicitly provides that the President of the National Assembly shall have three days to set a time limit for the collection of signatures. The only exception is permissible where the question is not clearly expressed when the National Assembly may invite the proposers to supplement the referendum initiative accordingly. The call was made and the applicants complied with this request and completed the referendum initiative. It is clear from the law, therefore, that in the event that the issue is clear, which in the present case is also the case, the Committee also decided, that the State assembly, after the initiative has been tabled, has exactly three days of time to make or call or propose a constitutional assessment of the matter. A different interpretation of the law would mean that the deadline is unlimited, which could, of course, expose the initiators of the referendum to the bullying of the majority in the National Assembly, which could, by artificially delay the decision to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court to determine whether the referendum requirement might be contrary to the referendum, limitlessly delay the initiation of the procedure for collecting signatures. As I said, he's a competent working body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Time constraints are also procedural. Please shorten your performance. You just said three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	The explanation given in Article 65 is not limited to obstructing the Group of Members and I will not take advantage of this option of unlimited discussion. Yeah, I'm on it. The competent working body of the National Assembly has also found that the issue is clear. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the amended question and the completed initiative should therefore, as President of the National Assembly, set a time limit for the collection of signatures within three days. [[...]] However, as President of the National Assembly, you have done nothing, nor has he done anything by a national assembly which could only formally request, but obviously only within this three-day period, since this is the only time limit which, in relation to the initiative of the Referendum Law and of the People's Initiative, provides for a complement to the question if it is assessed that it is not clearly expressed or that it should be sent to the Constitutional Court for review. It should therefore be noted that such conduct unduly impedes the exercise of the right of the people to direct decision-making. The right to take a direct decision in the legislative referendum is a constitutional right and it is clear that the majority in the national assembly, due to political motives, again has a grave impact on the constitutional rights of all citizens and citizens who have the right to vote in the referendum. Your Honor, there are two big mistakes. First time. Express violation of the rules of procedure and, forgive me, we cannot participate in such a violation. The second mistake is that the deadlines that you are guilty of have expired, we have warned of this, we have proposed a more elegant solution, a solution to be dealt with earlier in an extraordinary session that you could call upon if you wanted to, but would not violate the rules of procedure, and the matter would be clear. Gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure are a small constitution in democratic lands. And if the rules of procedure are not a small constitution, then the country is not democratic. That's why we're leaving the meeting at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Do you have the same procedural performance, Comrade Sok? Because otherwise you get the word within a point. Do you have the same, the exercise of the right of business? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to say on behalf of New Slovenia that this procedural issue was not on the agenda when the National Assembly adopted the agenda and that there was actually a vote on the Rules of Procedure Commission. Therefore, on the basis of the vote, of course, such a decision or other decision may be taken on the business committee. To all who are here, and who are you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	We participated in the Rules of Procedure Commission, and, of course, we explained this to each other, it is quite clear that we cannot discuss the initiative of the Slovenian Coalition or 3,800 signatories to sign a preliminary legislative referendum under this item. [[...]] How would the President of the National Assembly legally, in relation to our Rules of Procedure, be available? In such a way as to establish that this issue is in accordance with the Constitution and to set a deadline for collecting signatures, if not, I could, of course, convene a College of Presidents and propose that an extraordinary meeting be convened on this issue. Not as this has happened, however, that this item is included on the agenda of this session by means of the business commission in which the vote took place. And then there's the other one. Dear colleagues! What you wrote in the second point of the decision you wish to discuss here today, and in this second point, says: "for the abuse of the Institute of the initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum, to delay the legislative procedure aimed at implementing that decision by the Constitutional Court", I would like to say, of course, that this is a value judgement that has no real basis, neither in the rules of procedure nor in the constitution, because the Constitution and Rules of Procedure speak about how a preliminary legislative referendum can be signed, who can request it, and how many signatures are necessary for that purpose. We've submitted all of this. We've done all of this. That's why you can't say it's an abuse of the institute. If you have already decided on this decision, I propose, on behalf of New Slovenia, that you delete this second point with the amendment in this Decision. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I also announce for New Slovenia that we will take advantage of this business opportunity and we will not cooperate on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	We'll take that under advisement. I would like to explain, very briefly, I think that the matter is too difficult to try to summarize on the surface, that the College has decided that this point, knowing that the initiative put forward to set the time limit for the referendum to be on the agenda, will be this point. As you know, two days later I called the college again and asked about this fact. It was clear that it was best for us to turn to the business commission; that is what I did. The Business Commission met at its 15th emergency meeting and adopted the following interpretation of the first paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure: "In the event that a draft law is included on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly, on which an initiative or a request for an invitation to tender for a preliminary legislative referendum has been submitted, the National Assembly shall, before the meeting, proceed to the consideration of the draft law as a preliminary question at the meeting, all of the proceedings referred to in Articles 15 and 16 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative." That is how we can make decisions on this subject today. Now we're going to go through if I understand Comrade Pec properly, even procedurally? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] You have the first word in the context of the presentation of the positions of the groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Your Honors are here! At the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, the National Assembly adopted the agenda and also adopted the 10th item with the content of the system law in the third reading. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, on the government side, you did not find so much wisdom and in the second reading you allowed the amendment of this law, which would mean that you would be in a normal situation today, which would mean that we could change the law and make it so that it would not be contrary to the Constitution and thus avoid a new referendum. But you didn't want all this in the government majority or ruling parties. So I think on behalf of the entire opposition today I can argue that the referendum on the system law is solely due to your ignorance or my assessment of the drunkenness of power. In the meantime, in the second reading, when you did not allow any amendments to be adopted, and thus the correction of a bad, unconstitutional law, to which the Constitutional Court had warned us, you did not agree. Therefore, on 17.3.2004, five days before the beginning of this meeting, an initiative for a referendum took place. Friday had the head of the National Assembly time to deal with the legal procedure or with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, to read some articles that would give the leadership of the National Assembly what we could or could not discuss. But the leadership of the National Assembly was unable to do so. That's why we adopted the agenda last Monday and you're breaking it today. Of course, this is also why the opposition - the less important one - decided to perform obstruction for the time being. But what have you done in ruling parties? I asked the president of the National Assembly earlier whether he manipulated or manipulated the rules of the game. In any case, it is a story of deleted manipulation, especially with citizens and citizens of our country. Not only is there really a denial of rights, but there is, above all, a reduction of rights for citizens and citizens - those who have a regulated status. Because it is at this meeting that you want to take the right of all citizens and citizens to decide at the referendum, one of the fundamental constitutional rights. On the other hand, it is important to say that you have enjoyed much more, of course. Many of you have, at the request of the President of the National Assembly, used your institution of office to be the President of the Business Commission, to be the so-called Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and, ultimately, the President of the National Assembly. To talk about the fact that the business commission has put forward a proposal on how to move the matter forward is, of course, aboriginal. The business committee is mostly made up of your people. Therefore, talking about some kind of true democracy, where it was decided on the basis of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, is, of course, pointless. The same has happened on the Internal Policy Committee, led by one of the members of the Liberal Democracy, where the expression, not only the relationship, the question of culture, but mainly whether the leadership of a certain committee can read its own rules or not. Very simply, all those who have followed this committee have found that the management of this committee does not even know its own rules. How, then, can this Committee, the Internal Policy Committee, give its position to the President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly ensure that this is exactly the same and not the same. That it does not allow for debate or that it changes the debate in this national council in substance. Because the fact is, at this point in time, under point no. At today’s meeting of the National Assembly, 10 had to deal with another law, namely the system law. However, as long as, of course, this is due to your ignorance and you did not know that 5 days before the meeting began, the 17th came up with a referendum initiative. What you, in particular the President of the National Assembly, have done, I stress once again, which, of course, has made the most use of the Institute of the President of the National Assembly for its narrow political interests. He applied for his own opinion, as I said before, to the business committee. The Business Commission, of course, in its composition, adopted the content as requested by the President of the National Assembly. The same has happened, as I said before, on the Committee on Internal Policy, but at least this time it has reacted to the legislative and legal service, which said that this political action is unacceptable and in mocking not only to Slovenian legislation, but also to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this is the book that you and you have written and also adopted, which speaks of what rules are, at least around the agenda that you are violating at this moment, that is to say, that it should be around the legislative procedure that you are in breach of, or around democracy in this National Assembly, which you are violating at this very moment. Let me say again here from this city, we are the rules of procedure, or you have accepted your own hair. Then why do you take different acts that talk about the rules of the game, when these rules are always and everywhere you break, whenever you encounter a matter that you know is otherwise you won't have to take it away. And why are you doing this? Of course, the answer is clear. According to our assessment or sincere hope, the answer is clear to citizens as well as to citizens because you are fighting the referendum. Very simple. Because in Liberal Democracy, the United List you're afraid of a referendum. But not a referendum as an institute, but a referendum response, you're afraid to find out the benefit of citizens and citizens. That's why you want to do everything in every way so that the referendums don't happen. So that people can't say how much they want each other to have in our society. As the practice of referendums has always shown, at least in this mandate, that citizens want a different order than proposed by the Liberal Democracy and the United List, and if we look at any of the referendums. So, is this a mistake if people tell their own? In the National Party, we say no. In the National Party, we even argue that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government were wise, we would even say thank you to the citizens and citizens for getting them on the right track. But not as you do, not only do you say in advance that you will do everything to make sure that you do not respect the referendum will, on the other hand, even invite people not to go to the referendum, but in the basic and initial stages you prevent the referendum from ever happening. Later, it is likely that many of you will also be affected by the costs. It's true, it sounds like a huge, 600 million Slovenian tolls for the referendum! But none of you have ever said that the government's plane adventure, which you've all applauded, for which you've all been, has allowed referendums for a hundred years to come. But aside from where there was talk about a few billion, citizens and citizens of that plane will have nothing. But also the government of the Republic of Slovenia will have nothing because after a year it began to realize that it does not need this plane. So much for the financial implications and your principles. So you're afraid of giving people the opportunity to decide whether or not to agree with the policy of the United Nations and the policy of the Liberal Democracy. The referendum question is nothing else. And whoever is deceiving the public with a vague question, what many of you have heard in the last few days, both in the halls of this national assembly and in the media, is not a question at all. The question is only to find out whether people support such policies or not around the contents of deleted ones. And since a good part of this national council estimates that the government has made another mistake this time, we have asked people to do so, and you are making it impossible for us to do so. Isn't that a little funny? That you represent yourself as a government, that you represent yourself to the people who run this country, who lead citizens and citizens, and you do not want to hear from them; you even forbid them to give their opinion! Maybe at this point, who's wondering why two referendums are a smart question? The two referendums were solely because Minister Bohinc of the United List gave us two laws and we also gave it at the beginning - I think last October - warned that it was irrelevant for the issue of deleted to write and put two laws in the procedure - but not! There too you have shown total ignorance and the consequence of this ignorance of yours is of course today - two referendums: one that will be on Sunday, and one that will be a little later. If we had gained a little more political wisdom, then at least we would have made the referendum on the same day, but you also made it impossible, and today you are also making it impossible to have a normal debate in this national assembly and your aspirations are also to prevent a referendum debate around the system law. So, a mistake, why are the two referendums - because Mr Bohinc decided to solve the matter in two laws, although this was counseled by the so-called constitutional section of the Republic of Slovenia, although it was counseled by politics, let's say it came from opposition types, and although it was primarily counseled by the Slovenian National Party. But of course, as ever, the minister has done exclusively those things that he knew would be empty or invisible or blind, I apologize that only the third time I said correctly, invisible support in this national assembly, which means in other words; he knew he would have your votes, you said, we will support everything you want, and the consequence of this principle or such action is, of course, the state that is in this country right now. So we are in today's session - I think it's totally unnecessary or useless. At first we said that we would consider something different at this meeting, but it came even so far that you started in the first phase by representatives of the Liberal Democracy, asking the United Kingdom whether it was right or permissible for citizens and citizens to ask about human rights, but at the same time you did not ask a question or answer, who should then deal with human rights. Do you Members of the National Assembly - because you never say for yourselves that you should not deal with human rights - for some reason more, do you consider yourself more than just people? Based on your behavior, yes! Personally, I'd like to say that you think you're more than that. In addition, let me say that you have been elected by the people, why, if you allow them this opportunity already to allow them to designate the legislative branch of power, you do not allow them to face other issues. Where were you two or three years ago when we met at a referendum on the issue of fertilization with biomedical aid? There it was possible to speak truly, perhaps, about human rights; but of course, none of you have declared such a thing. Next. You argued a few days ago that the question raised in the referendum was unclear. With this you stopped as soon as you received a letter from the Association of Primary Schools and the elementary school students told you that they understood the referendum question, that the issue was clear and that the dilemma was clear and that they did not see the problem why government policy was so complicated. Then you continued with the story on the Internal Policy Committee, Mr Lavrinc's committee, for which we asked the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups on several occasions to carry out the procedure for his replacement, because the management of this committee does not achieve what it could, even more, the area of internal policy or those laws that go through internal policy, only goes back because of the individual incompetence of an individual. But the President of the National Assembly did not take any steps, and let me say that it was even an agreement that each of the members of the Group would occupy one working body or at least one working body. Let me ask you, which political party is the only one in this state council that doesn't have a working body in spite of the deal? In return for this - I will give the first answer because I see that Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs does not know, despite being Vice-President - that this is the only Slovenian national party. In return, you put this frame to the leadership of the Internal Policy Committee, which not only causes friction, but causes irregularities. Furthermore, you have tried with all kind of correspondence between the Constitutional Court, between the National Assembly, between the Government and direct correspondence precisely in order to further delay the case of the deleted and, in all likelihood, to present it to the people attending the referendum. In view of all of this, and in particular - perhaps today too - this has aroused the indignation of some opposition Members - because of the talk that, in the framework of the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats, two government parties, two of the most powerful government parties, have begun to call on citizens and citizens not to participate in the referendum. Why? What is very interesting is the explanation given on behalf of some and others, which you presented at the press conference, because you claim that the decision of people is irrelevant anyway. Government representatives - and, of course, now by Mr Kremjar, I experience approval - you claim that the opinion, attitude of citizens and citizens is in no way touching that you will not take it into account. Yeah, then who do you think you are? You do not sit here because of this or because you should not sit here to satisfy your own, selfish interests, in here, in the legislative branch of power, in order to make life more bearable for citizens and citizens and to drive our society forward, but not to hide ourselves or apologize - but not to hide yourself, to set a barrier and to ban the referendum, people are invited to not even participate in the referendum. And let me give you a heads-up on what a referendum is. At least so far, it has always been in force, both in professional literature and in political speeches, that the referendum is the most democratic decision-making in every society. Now, in the Liberal Democracy and the United List, you renounce and ban the most democratic form of decision-making! You prohibit the form of decision that is in the hands of citizens and citizens. You forbid people to have any right to participate in the legislative process. And we have finally reached the goal of the Slovenian government and the United List and the Liberal Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian National Party Group we assess that it is right when the government is unable to resolve an individual dilemma and the issue of deleted has proved to be such a dilemma that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to resolve. In the Slovenian National Party, we also assess that it is right that when there is not enough wisdom in the National Assembly to resolve the issue, the dilemma, in our case deleted, it is right to ask citizens and citizens, either in the opinion or in the mandatory opinion. And that is also the purpose of the referendum. Thus we have come to a stage where we cannot deal with each other in any way, not in the government or in the National Assembly, how to resolve the question of the referendum. Yeah, then how do we go? Yes, the option you have chosen is possible. But according to my opinion, wrong, with a dictatorship. Certainly not with such a dictatorship, which on the one hand blurs or changes the Slovenian period of independence and throws one unknown fog at the Slovenian future. The fact is that the consequences of the Constitutional Court decision did not even provide for a constitutional court. Why? My guess is incompetence. It is right for people to decide on the referendums in the field of deleted persons. It's because you weren't able to take the conversation to this National Assembly. Because you were not prepared to accept any amendments and because you, both in the United List and in the Liberal Democracy, were unable to understand the importance of cooperation, whether between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or within the National Assembly. And given that I was only allowed to speak for 20 minutes at today's college at Mr Potsch's express request, of course I will be able to stop. And given that you are trying, or likely to succeed, through today's meeting of the National Assembly, you will also be able to limit the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to decide! So we will not participate in such shameful work in the Slovenian National Party. That is why I am also predicting obstruction on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position, of course, is your decision, we will respect. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental duty of the National Assembly is to ensure that the referendum question raised by the referendum candidates to the electorate and the electorate is clear and in accordance with the Constitution. It is pointless and irresponsible to call people to a referendum if there is a question of constitutional compliance, Mr Pece, and perhaps the opposition would agree with us today. And in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have made an effort to decide this issue without delay, without delay. And that's the only reason we're making decisions today. This is not a violation of the rules of procedure, it is the conduct of those responsible in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, it appears that the problem of deleted persons is directly linked to the referendum requirements. Or this is the last one, it's impossible to know, but it's the third one on the same subject. We have legislation that prevents the National Assembly from playing its legislative role. It is true that the referendum is a democratic form of decision-making, but it is turned into a farce if it is used only to prevent the adoption of a law. This is even more unacceptable if such abuse serves to prevent the enforcement of a Constitutional Court decision. The Coalition of Slovenia has decided to prevent the adoption in all possible ways of legislation imposing a constitutional decision on deleted persons because it simply disagrees with what the Constitutional Court has decided. They themselves say that they are not opposed to the constitutional decision, but only to the way the government is trying to implement that decision. However, they never and never say how they would have done it. The proposal, which was drafted in the form of several referendum questions to the same law in February, has already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and has not been offered; they cannot, unless they exceed constitutional standards. Therefore, it is not true that they are opposed only to the way in which the constitutional decision is implemented, they are opposed to enforcement in general. The constitutional law, of which many were speaking, therefore served only as a form to bypass the Constitution and the constitutional court. At such points, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia cannot seek consensus. As it is said, the Constitutional Court has already declared one set of referendum issues offered by the Slovenian Coalition anti-constitutional. This time, secondly, they are offering a new question, but this is also unconstitutional, if I am more precise, the issue can lead to unconstitutional consequences. If the electorate had spoken against this issue, they would have said that they were opposed to the solutions contained in the system law on the subject of permanent residence arrangements for deleted persons. However, since it is not possible to resolve the issue of permanent residence in return, as regulated by this law - it is not possible because the Constitutional Court so decided - it would therefore mean that one year after the referendum on this issue could not be resolved at all. This would only prolong the unconstitutional situation, not to mention that this issue would be burdened by Slovenian politics and the entire public space for a year. If it is only for the coalition of Slovenia to determine the will of the people, it should, however, stop preventing the adoption of this law once and for all and request a subsequent confirmatory referendum. If, however, he is opposed to the decision of the Constitutional Court, he should seriously consider the consequences of his actions. Responsible policy must be able to say, "to swallow" also those decisions of a constitutional court that it does not like. The public impression that it is possible to resolve the issue of deleted also contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court is to play with the feelings of citizens. The rulings of the courts, not only constitutional ones, are at times contrary to the individual's understanding of justice, but the rule of law also embodies the generally accepted principle of taking court decisions into account even if we consider them not to be just. The violation of this principle, which is what the Slovenian Coalition does in this case, means the establishment of one fundamental civilisational acquisition, which is the rule of law. In the past, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has had to accept constitutional decisions that seemed unfair to it, for example in relation to denationalisation and the Church. We ate up the intransigence and implemented the law, even opposed a referendum that would go against a constitutional decision on this issue. Dearly respected, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will support the proposal for a decision proposed by our mother's working body, because we believe that the referendum issue is contrary to the Constitution. Since it also refers to the content of which the Constitutional Court has already ruled and of which there is no room for free legislative review. This is therefore the part of the decision of the Constitutional Court whereby licences and decisions on permanent residence have a retroactive effect. And since the possible negative outcome of the referendum would result in unconstitutional consequences, at least one year after the referendum would not be possible to implement the Constitutional Court’s decision and would thus prolong the anti-constitutional situation. At the same time, we want the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not to take initiatives to call for the previous legislative referendum of the same initiators on the same law to abuse this institution to delay the legislative procedure aimed at enforcing the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs. My colleague, Janez Podobnik, will present the position of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you, President. I'll be in touch. I expect to be supported later by some other colleagues in the parliamentary group, some of whom are still in the house, but unfortunately most of them have left home yesterday because of other obligations. I hope that we can decide in the end. I would only touch the contents of the joint of the working body. First of all, I would like to point out that I regret that we have not made a second decision just a week ago, but perhaps today there would not be a complication that the President of the National Assembly would have convened an extraordinary meeting during the regular session of the National Assembly to include a relatively similar item in the agenda, such as this - that is, substantive - and would not have this necessary sensitive procedure, which is called the interpretation of the business commission. This explanation is, to be honest, it brings new ones and is different, as has been the practice so far. And here was this first insult that happened -- so there was a second path. However, I will not dispute the position of a fellow Member, who has also confirmed such an explanation on the business committee. Now this will be a practice for the future. In my opinion, this practice should be included in the amended law on referendum and human initiative, which is the case. I would now like to touch briefly on the proposal for a decision. I flew by, I admit that in these days I did not deal with the content of the discussions that you had with the members of the Internal Policy Committee, the members of the Committee and, as consistent in the minutes, the alternate members. Clearly, you have also been very careful about who participated in these meetings. My thinking is as follows. In point 4, this is a proposal for a decision, point 4 also refers to the abuse of the Institute of the initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum to delay the legislative procedure. This, in my view, is once again the first time that we are thus justifying the unconstitutionality of an issue. If we don't abuse the Institute, we don't really have anything to do with the Constitutional Court here, we have to supplement the law. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is obviously such that it allows for procedures that can sometimes be characterized as abuse. Thus, in my view, this does not belong to an installation that will go to a constitutional court. Now, the debate relating to the relationship between the branches of government reads in point 3: "Because the referendum question also refers to the content of which the Constitutional Court has already ruled and where there is no room for free legislative assessment..." This formulation is very important, but sensitive can also be very controversial. Here the National Assembly gives a full mandate to the Constitutional Court as a positive legislator. In my opinion, this is mainly due to the large political division in the national assembly. If we were more united as Parliament, we should, in fact, fight for ourselves, for Parliament, but not give the Constitutional Court a mandate to get the money, to intervene in the following decisions, and in fact to become an increasingly active legislator - I am sure that this was not the intention of the founder, not of the one who wrote the Constitutional Court Act. In the future, it will most likely be necessary to think - but when things calm down - and then professionally also approach the Constitutional Court Act and clearly define and very limit the possibility that the Constitutional Court is a positive legislator. Now it's just a question. What articles of the Constitution have the Committee drawn on, where it says that the issue is contrary to the Constitution? Articles 1, 2, 3, 15 and 87. Article 15 is understandable, it is about human rights, Article 87 is about the legal competence of the State Assembly, which is the question of this abuse to block the legislative process. But I have a question: was this well reasoned, let us write that it is also contrary to Article 1, for example, 3rd of the Constitution? I took a quick look at the comment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 1 says: 'Slovenia is a democratic Republic', and it speaks about Slovenia, about the Republic, about the sovereignty of the people, about the people as a national community of citizens, about the democratic legitimacy of the state authority, and about the relationship between individual freedom, free democratic society and the state. But then I saw it say here that it's in connection with Article 3 and I looked at this explanation, the third article comment, but it seems to me that it's just a counter argument. Article 3 speaks of the power of the people in Slovenia. Citizens and citizens shall exercise it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters. I don't see any connection or argument here. In fact, if you are looking at the text - the first was written by Dr. Jambrek and the second was written by Dr. Sturm - if you are looking at the text, I did not find it in Article 3, but maybe I read it too quickly, because there is nothing written in the conclusion. The explanation only reads: "The abuse of the Institute of Referendum constitutes a violation of article 15 of the Constitution." It also prevents the implementation of Article 87 of the Constitution. Let's just think about it. Both are contrary to the principle of representative democracy, Articles 1 and 3 of the Constitution, and the principles of the rule of law. I don't see any argument. Both are contrary to the principle of representative democracy, for Article 3 speaks of this. And some procedure that speaks of the constitutional institute of the referendum, which is justified by Article 3(3) of the Constitution, cannot be argued that this article has been violated. This is no longer justified from the explanation, therefore, why it is in violation of Articles 1 and 3 of the Constitution. At least the material we got on the bench today isn't visible. On the basis of this, if I receive an answer, I will certainly allow you and I will vote in favour of you today - so the quorum will be allowed to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. My colleague Potts, on behalf of the ZLSD Group of Members. Then, if there's no more debate, we'll move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. After many discussions, I would like to reiterate once again that the fundamental objective of the United List of Social Democrats is to stop this National Assembly and the Slovenian public from dealing with the deleted. That either the National Assembly should be given the opportunity to decide what has been disabled to date, or to hold a referendum, but a referendum that would have a clear question, but the question is clearly not that the sentence is clear, grammatical, but that the consequences of such or other decision are clear. I believe that the opposition has succeeded, perhaps even once with our help, in blurring things out so far that today no one knows what is wrong and what is being decided. And I'm glad more and more people find out. Indeed, I myself agree that there are many issues that have not been dealt with precisely enough in the referendum law. But colleague Sponik - I'd say it's right to warn you about that, but you know how many times we've tried to fix it, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	There is no controversy in the presentation of positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	We couldn't handle it. [[...]] True, though, the law is written in a way that enables all of us to read it in very different ways. And when we were preparing for the decision that we have on the table today, we discussed on the working body, among other things: the law allows us to ask a number of questions about the same subject and to ask them successfully today, one when the question is not accepted, whether it is unconstitutional or not. Article 18, which allows us to use these questions in the previous referendum, has four indents and can be used alternately for each indent. I would like to say that I do not represent myself in this manner as a regulated procedure to ensure the decision-making of citizens and citizens in the referendum. And I don't think he's good. When, in the light of the question that the initiators first raised for the referendum raised, we changed in part later, although they say in substance themselves, not essential, but the explanation added, we asked ourselves, which way to decide whether they had put the question right and whether the question in their consequences was unconstitutional or not, I admit, I was more inclined to decide whether I should first ask the question of clarity and then the question of constitutionality. However, I have made sure that there are so many different views and so many uncertainties in this regard and that perhaps it is those who, through the decision on non-constitutionality, would have made it possible to achieve the first objective I have mentioned more quickly, this is to reach a decision. Because everything else would certainly be a longer way. Are the conditions for us to make decisions today, as in the third century C.E.? I think they are. The Business Commission has made a decision by qualified majority. It was accepted only for the use of the referendum. If that were not the case, it would be possible to re-apply for referendums at a time when it would no longer be possible to place them on the agenda, since the law was already on the agenda, the law should not be decided on, nor should the referendum, because it is not on the agenda, and this could be an abuse, especially if it is a third treatment. And I think that this exception has been identified by the Business Commission as possible and useful so that we can come to a decision. Gentlemen who have announced obstruction today claim that this decision was not a good decision and therefore they do not want to cooperate, but above all that they do not want to cooperate, nor is it because decision-making would not be possible at all. In doing so, they say, we should not put this meeting on the agenda, but if the three-day deadline from the time the request was made, we should no longer be able to make decisions. I must say, I don't understand this logic, either one or the other. If we have the right to make decisions this time, then their logic of the three-day deadline may still be acceptable, although I don't think it is. But if we can't make a decision - they say, call an extraordinary meeting. This means that, after the first point or even without consideration of the first point, we should withdraw all points of European legislation from this extraordinary session in order to convene a new extraordinary meeting half an hour later, with a new emergency meeting number, to carry out this hearing at their request, and then to convene another, the next extraordinary meeting and the points that we have dealt with in substance, at their request. Do you think that makes sense? Or are we really not going, I'd say, "fat fuck-ups" with each other and gossiping about what's normal and right, just to show people that someone's wrong. No one's wrong with guilt? The blame may also apply to a national assembly which cannot decide. And that is why I think it is right to make the decision that is proposed, whether it is in any detail or not, with every argument. Let me finish with a thought that may be understood later, but perhaps we won't now. I am personally afraid, but I would like to say that I am wrong, but I fear that this national assembly, with a way of working the opposition that does not want to make a substantive decision, will face many more times in the way of working the opposition, which in any case wants to prevent the problem from being properly resolved. I just want the public to finally not only understand that it is not true that we who would like to solve the problems of citing extraordinary meetings because of us and our demands, but not because of consciously making proposals that are incorrect. No one will convince me that 500 experts, including some of the lawyers and university professors with whom the opposition has the resources, have announced, in its shadow government professional headquarters, that they are not able to draw up an corrective proposal and enable them to decide on it. And I'm afraid this is going to happen to us from the meeting to the meeting, and we're going to be accused of not giving us a chance to make a decision. However, incorrect questions, unclear, unconstitutional questions cannot be put on the agenda. And lastly, I'm afraid we're going to be one way or another, even though I don't want to, we're going to have to have a final judgment in the Constitutional Court. I fear that not only before we ask a certain question to the referendum and before we decide on the law as a whole, but also after we have decided on the law. And that, in view of the existing law, issues, initiatives, proposals we will face and will not be successful and able to resolve them because of the law and because of the unwillingness of the referendum candidates to resolve this issue in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Well, if there is no more proposal Please, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, then one editorial amendment will be made. [[....]] Just to get to know her early enough. In the amended proposal for a decision on page 12 instead of the number 3 and 4 in the second part of the document, the number is now 1 and 2 - it is the wrong sequence. On page 16 is the same error, 1 and 2 instead of 3 and 4. It's just an editorial note. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we decide in accordance with our well-known principled positions that the state must correct the injustices there and those caused to them, and in no way cause new ones. The area of the so-called deleted has become a sensitive area, which, unfortunately, has also tended to be politicized in our society. Citizens are often confused, too often under the influence of bombastic performances by those who have the heart to bring confusion between people and the mood, that even the feeling of injustice being created by themselves in solving this problem. In such an atmosphere and in such rocky waters, it is difficult and impossible to detect the truth on the waterbed. Not by our fault have steps already been taken that make it really difficult to solve this problem, which everyone, as well as this, current power, must solve once. Otherwise, in our precious land, we will no longer do any other work than break a copy, who is more and who is less right. We believe that with the Sunday referendum we will not achieve anything in order to solve the problem of the deleted, unfortunately, there is nothing more we can do. The results of the referendum will not show a new path of rescue, but will only show the image of our troubled citizens, and will also show a picture of those who are not up to the rule of law, order and human society to which they like to go beyond. Let us therefore turn to solving the problem and to taking steps toward its possible solutions. Even here, apparently, it will not go smoothly, with such a negligent opposition certainly not. The system law, which is intended to provide the legal basis for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on the issue of the relevant decisions, which the opposition claims to be so important, is put back on the stand by the re-referendum procedure; and all those provisions which among the affected could have obtained appropriate, positive decisions and those which were genuinely entitled to them and excluded those who, by their conduct at the time of Slovenia's independence, did not deserve this. The problem is being solved again, it is stalling and - what is the saddest - a pre-election copy is being refracted on the backs of the very people for whom we are all smothered, they need to be listened to, and after 12 years to resolve their status and the injustice caused. The renewed initiative to collect signatures for the new previous referendum follows the same recognised objectives again. Rather than allow everyone in the National Assembly to show a common will to create such legislation as would best solve the problem, which is certainly in our common interest. For all of this, the DeSUS Group joins the position of the parent committee in order to refer the proposed new referendum issue to the Constitutional Court. In this respect, we will support and vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Internal Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. He's a representative of the government. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will be very brief, I know that we have been sitting here for a long time to discuss these matters, but I think it is good to say a few words about this matter. It's amazing how many different theories, what the constitution is, what democracy is, and how these relationships should be arranged among themselves, we've heard. It's amazing how many untruths we hear in these days. The thing is completely simple and simple. Humanity can decide at a referendum in our constitutional order only on matters which the Constitutional Court has not decided in its decision. All other things cannot be decided by the people at the referendum because the people of the referendum are not above the Constitution and the Constitutional Court in our constitutional order. This is also partly understood by the motioner, as I have already quoted on the Committee, as is clear from the sentence in which he says: "It is important that in essence the decision decrees only the necessity of the back-up status regime; practically everything else is left to the legislator." In fact, they're aware of the problem when they say "practice everything else." The proposal for a conclusion shows very nicely that this is not true. That much else has been settled by the Constitutional Court, in addition to what is essential, regulating the status back. If such a referendum question comes before the electorate, mention that people decide what the Constitutional Court has decided. The only permissible thing that could come to the referendum is what the Constitutional Court has not explicitly defined in its decision and where, of course, it allows room for manoeuvre for the legislator to settle the matter as the legislator considers it best. And because of that, of course, the matter is crystal-legally clear. Even though we sit for days and hours and hours and discuss it, instead of telling this simple legal phenomenon once, I would say, define it, and in fact we all agree with it, because we cannot otherwise. Why? Because it is part of our constitutional democracy and is otherwise unexplainable. That is why, of course, we support this proposal, which takes into account precisely this fact, that, of course, the things that the Constitutional Court has decided cannot simply be decided by the referendum. This is no mistrust or fear of referendum, but it is respect for this constitutional order, which, through you, Members who have adopted this constitution, has co-formed the same people and the Constitution is the highest legal act that binds all of us: the government, the national assembly and also the citizens. Unfortunately, however, all these discussions, and any new debate very clearly shows that, of course, it is not about the government facing or the opposition facing an arrogant government that does not want to listen to its proposals, but about what Lavrinc once called "the wrong world". In fact, the opposition does not want this problem to be resolved. This was most evident when the opposition showed how it proposed to deal with the problem. What did she experience? A complete legal fiasco before a constitutional court when it said all her questions were contrary to the Constitution. So when the only positive proposal of the opposition came, how do we arrange this proposal, because all the time we listen to them not to listen to them, they got a legal complete earring; the Constitutional Court told them, in fact, everything you propose, except the deadline, is in conflict with the constitution. When we try, of course, to listen to some of their proposals and put them into proposals, nothing is ever right. If we propose a law - law is wrong, if we make decisions - decisions are wrong, now the next idea is a constitutional law, I am afraid there will be another, a new idea. In short, to conclude, I won't be too long. In fact, the following has been very clearly crystallised: on the one hand we have those who do not wish to implement the Constitutional Court decision, this has been made very clear yesterday, even the word 'deleted' does not go out of their language, they use the term'so-called deleted' all the time - the legitimate right of every Member to choose expression. It has been made clear on several occasions that they feel that this phenomenon has not occurred at all. For this reason, of course, I find it irresponsible to criticize someone who is trying to solve the problem and, of course, keep a fig in his pocket and propose something that is contrary to the Constitution. Then let us tell people directly when they are essentially voting, on the one hand we have those who want to solve this problem, on the other hand those who are trying to solve this problem at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Good. I think we can go to the vote if no one wants a word anymore. Comrade Skull, Comrade Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	If I understand correctly, we had an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Then I would say that I am dealing with this decision-making and debate with very mixed feelings. I think a few things have been done in such a way that it is not possible to say with certainty that formals are sustainable. There's been a lot of talk about one of these things, that's how we put it on the agenda. Let us say that it is permissible for us to put something on the agenda with the opinion of the business committee, but I certainly share my opinion with my colleague Sponik that it is absolutely unnecessary for us to have more elegant ways of getting there. Why this issue can be important on the agenda. I also think that because certain procedures may be in certain circumstances - and when it comes to the question of the referendum - there is also a matter of different judgements, infringements of certain rights and so on. From this point of view, this is an act, I hope, sufficiently thoughtful. The second thing to say is this conclusion and the elements of this Decision. Here we hear that the Parliamentary Council in Slovenia has divided into those who do not want and others who want to. Perhaps it would be fairer to say that he has divided himself into those who do not, and those who do not know; I have spoken of this many times. Because, look, this conclusion, which says that a negative outcome could have - what does it say here? - "could cause unconstitutional consequences." Of course, that would have been the whole point if the marriage had been perfect. Since it is not, it is a paradoxical situation that a negative outcome could also lead to the prevention of the adoption of those parts of unconstitutional solutions in the law proposed by the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, the matter is truly complicated in its own way, and it is not always lifesaving only by this force of the majority. When I say this, I do not think that the solution is what the ministry is, but the government has offered the opposition as a constitutional law. In fact, it is perfectly clear at this point that if the law is not adopted, a constitutional decision cannot be implemented by means of this referendum. But if it is accepted, we have built-in anti-constitutional moments. And this is a situation in which we should weigh our decisions and seek solutions and eventually find a way with the opposition to withdraw the law from the procedure. Unfortunately, this will be like many things that have been said in this discussion, a lonely opinion, but the consequences will not be perfect in either case. I agree that it would also be possible to legislate and "dispute" the individual provisions before the Constitutional Court, that this is a possible way, but here we find ourselves on the ground that colleague Sponik spoke about again, which you do not want to hear so much about these days for other reasons. When the National Assembly knows in advance that something may be wrong, it must not be transferred to a constitutional court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	My friend Wolf is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although I did not want to speak in the introduction at the beginning of this debate, after presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular those from the better part of the opposition, one cannot be calm without saying something. Today it has been clear and clear to us twice that the ruling coalition wants to prevent Slovenian citizens from a referendum and that this is how we manipulate them. This claim is manipulation. Therefore, it must be made clear that this is not true. Remember yesterday when we heard the Lithuanians say that the various institutions in the constitution, the law, the rules of procedure were written to serve the opposition. This is a legitimate right not only of the opposition but also of the positions. The Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative allows for the possibility to be examined before the referendum is called for in the previous referendum, either by the clarity of the matter or by the constitutional dispute of the referendum. I am even of the opinion that if there is any doubt as to the constitutionality of the referendum question that this is our right, not just the right, it is our duty to ask the Constitutional Court. Unhopefulness also requires experience from us. It seems that some have forgotten that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on the system law issue in seven referendum issues. And what did it decide? It has clearly and unequivocally found that five of the seven issues raised are unconstitutional. Now let us ask ourselves: What if the National Assembly did not use this institute? What would people decide? What kind of referendum should we decide on? We'd decide on anti-constitutional issues! And that we do not imagine what consequences this country would have if the people at the referendum supported such a referendum. This is therefore a duty and, of course, where the applicants, in this case the National Assembly, cites certain articles, it is also important to point out that the Constitutional Court does not, in its judgment, refer to these statements of individual articles. It is understandable, however, that the applicant must in some way indicate in which part this dispute is considered. The Constitutional Court will be autonomous in its judgment, but it is bound only and only to the Constitution - what is enshrined in the constitutional provisions. And what I think is important to me today is what the Secretary of State has said, and I will not repeat it, I will only point out that the sovereign people are also bound to the Constitution and not least to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and that they cannot be subject to a referendum question for an exception when a decision has been taken on a matter by the Constitutional Court. That would mean we're moving from a state of law, from a rule of law to anarchy, a dictatorship, I don't know what else. Nor do they hold, for the end, the allegations, the obvious, the arrogance of those parties present at this time in this Chamber. In drafting the system law, this arrogant coalition has adopted, I think, almost all the opposition's proposals in the amendment form, so these allegations are of course entirely unfounded and it is, I must say, purely a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The matter, better said problem, can be simple, easy if you want to solve it as soon as possible. But we can view it as very complicated, and it's even more complicated if we don't want to solve it in due course. The key problem is whether we want to do something constructively useful, useful in correcting the wrongs that have been done. However, we can distinguish those who did not want the rights they were given at the time, to take advantage of them, and others have not been able or able to take advantage of them because they were ignorant or poorly informed because they did not come up with such and other information as would enable them to solve their problem of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. I do not quite agree with a certain thesis that has been put forward, which, of course, we can discuss, whether the people are the people of the Constitutional Court or the constitutional court of the people. We have cases from certain constitutional courts, or from the United States of America, where they do not have a constitutional court, but they have a supreme, in the same function that has in many cases decided so, and the Congress has decided otherwise. I think there is no point in discussing this dilemma. If we want to, we think that it is right and this is also my personal opinion - to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, then we must recognise it and we must implement this decision as soon as possible. In the simplest way, in a certain way, I will not say compromises in this direction, which was decided by the Constitutional Court, but by compromise of the opposition, if you want to participate constructively, but if it collects or thinks that it will collect certain political points that have been deleted, the matter is left to them and the people will create their own picture. It seems to me that Sunday's referendum is irrelevant and a loss of words. When they ask me if I'm going to go or not, I tell them it's my constitutional right, and I'll decide for myself, and I'll go. The second is when they ask me how I will vote, and I say, the vote is secret, and you have no constitutional, no legal, no ethical right to make my decision - by my conscience, by my knowledge and understanding of the matter, I decide for myself, as I decide. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The debate is closed. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. We vote on the proposal for a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. [[42 present.]] I'm going to wait for a moment, if not, we're going to vote again and order a recess. We'll vote next time. We're voting. [[44 present.]] Well, there's not enough of us in the hall. I'm taking ten minutes off. At 6:20, we'll move on to the third decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-31-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	This is the third time we'll make a decision. I'm going to ask for the perfect peace in the hall. We'll decide the third time. If the vote fails, we will resume tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. We decide on the proposal for a decision. [[43 present.]] We'll continue tomorrow at 9:30.
