ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that he is detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Aloise Posedel. I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item, Mr Janez Janša, the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st place and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 4th, 5th and 6th points. I welcome all the invitees here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of items from the agenda. However, we have just received a proposal on the table to extend the agenda, tabled by a group of Members proposing that the National Assembly decide again on the decision of the College. Given that we have to discuss this proposal first or later, I give the floor first to the applicants. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 5 November, the College of the President of the National Assembly established the number of members of the Internal Policy Committee. On the basis of Rule 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, we request that that decision be decided by the College of State, because we believe that the decision of the College in the work setting out the number of members of the Committee after the Group of Members is not in accordance with Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This says that when determining the number of members, the college must take into account the size of the number of members of the individual parliamentary group. This was not taken into account by the College because it proposed only three members of the LDS Club, although according to the results of the national elections, we have four members and 26.1% of the members of the National Assembly. We therefore propose that this be decided by the National Assembly in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you. I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Each delegation shall have the opportunity to explain its position within three minutes. I can see it's not a wish. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, with 21 votes against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] The proposal is not put to the vote. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. I ask Members whether they have a position on the proposed agenda. No, no, no. Then we'll go to the vote. Before we go to the vote, please insert the cards into the voting device and check if the yellow light is on the right side of the device; in this case, the vote can be carried out. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the agreement that we have had with the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, namely that we will not interrupt the vote. If, during or after the vote, the Member has warned that he could not vote because the voting apparatus did not work, the President will suspend the meeting in order for the Technical Service to verify the operation of the device. If the service finds that the voting apparatus works, then the chairman will not repeat the vote, otherwise the assembly will re-vote after the vote has been corrected. Therefore, please recheck to see if the cards have been inserted. We therefore vote on the agenda as proposed by the meeting. We're voting. 87 present, favoured 77 votes against 8. [[The vote was 77.]] [[against 8.]] The agenda is adopted. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - President of the Republic of Slovenia's President-in-Office for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly on 3 November 2004 that Mr Janez Janša be elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to Dr. Matjaž Nahtigal, Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic, after consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups and members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, proposed to the National Assembly the election of Mr Janez Janša as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nahtigal. I give the floor to the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr Janez Janša, to present the Government's programming designs, in accordance with paragraph 226 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear congregation in this high assembly hall! We are on the threshold of establishing the first government after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The great steps taken this year have led us to a lot of efforts that have allowed Slovenia to be 15 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and 13 years after its independence, precisely where it belongs, according to the values that are shared by the majority of its inhabitants. Lois Peterle, the candidate for the leadership of the first government in the first freely elected Slovenian Parliament, said in his next speech in May 1990: "We are aware that only in essence an undivided community can carry out its basic projects. It is therefore necessary to reduce, inter alia, the pressure of the past." As Dr. Janez Drnovšek ran for Prime Minister on 12 January 1993, he stressed, among other things: "We will endeavour to clear our heritage in the previous country as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible into Western economic and political ties." On 8 January 1997, Drnovšek said in his presentation for the new mandate: "We have become a founding member of the World Trade Organisation and have thus become a country that is involved in international trade and respects international trade rules. We've become full members of CEFTE. We signed a partnership agreement for peace and started implementing our orientation to become full members of NATO." The third candidate for Prime Minister in Slovenia, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, stressed on 3 May 2000 that the core of his programme starting points is the revival of our thousand-year spiritual membership of Europe, so that we will build an orderly, just, flourishing Slovenian Europe at home. On 11 December 2002, the candidate for Prime Minister Mr Anton Rop said: "We have carried out a gradual and relatively successful transition in many areas of our lives over the past decade. In order to ensure the quality and stability of the country and the economy before and after integration into the European Union, we urgently need an additional quality shift in development and economic policy." The performances of all the candidates so far who have been proposed and elected to the post to which I am proposed today express a high level of awareness of the reality of the situation in which the country has always been. And each time it was possible to conclude that important steps have been taken in the past mandate. However, there have always been missed opportunities, and quite a few words and plans that my predecessors formulated are still partly or largely topical. After its independence, however, Slovenia has achieved full international recognition and has become a member of the EU and NATO. This is an indisputable merit for all the managers of the country so far, and we often do not fully understand how great steps have been taken so far. Today is November 9, 2004. Just 15 years ago, a Berlin wall fell. This was a symbolic and actual milestone that allowed tectonic political and geostrategic movements in Europe and the world and actually ended the cold war. For us too, that date or event was shattered. While further softening the regime, it allowed the Slovenian spring from the movement to become a political alternative, which has implemented the national and democratic programme of the 57th issue of the New Journal and the Writing Constitution. Just 14 years ago, a year after the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1990, Demos's parliamentary club and the leadership of Demos under the chairmanship of Dr Jožet Pučnik formulated a proposal to sign a referendum on Slovenia's independence. A similar proposal was made in spring of the same year by the newlyweds of the then Social Democratic Union of Slovenia, as well as by members of the then Socialist Party. At the same time, the plebiscite and war for Slovenia resulted in a high degree of political and national unity, which enabled the historic step of Slovenian independence, which was made in a legal, civilized and effective way, without fatal ideological divisions. With it, Slovenia has become decisively detached from the crisis area of South-Eastern Europe and has begun to move steadily closer to the developed West. Today we are part of developed Euro-Atlantic integration. And it is right that we are truly aware of this, and we do not underestimate this great movement. For without knowing the importance of this step we will not be able to see the opportunities it brings. And they would make an irreparable mistake for future generations if they were left unexploited. When we returned early in the spring of 1991, after the plebiscite, with the then foreign minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dimitri Rupl, from a secret informal conversation with Assistant Secretary-General NATO, we were happy that we had already decided, on the basis of the conversation, that he would not interfere with our independence and that we would not be referred to as Europe and the world of dangerous separatists when exercising the plebiscite will of the Slovenians. Today, NATO and the European Union can co-form a policy. We can, because we have formal options, but we need to be able to do that. The mandate, which follows the October elections before us, is full of challenges, probably beyond the mandate of the first democratically formed Slovenian government. It is already possible for us to be able to lead the European Union in this mandate. This would be a huge challenge to our abilities and, at the same time, the greatest opportunity so far for Slovenia to be able to implement itself on a European and global map. It is probably understandable that this would have long-term long-term positive effects on the Slovenian export economy. During the discussions on our association with the European Union there were concerns and fears about the existence of Slovenian culture, our identity, even our language. With a relatively developed economy, science and culture, we are ready to join this association and are able to carry it without major shocks. However, it would be irresponsible to close your eyes before warnings that in the great European integration as well as in the globalisation processes, a number of small Slovenian people could easily lose their original identity, culture, perhaps even language, and consequently have no difficulty in gaining the right to self-governance. Economic globalisation flows also bring with them cultural globalisation, which is not only ours, but also the European problem. Both the entry into the European Union and the globalisation trends must be taken as a challenge, not as an apathetic commitment to cultural melting in the European and global conglomerate. I am sure that we are able to accept this challenge and to be enriched and strengthened in every respect. If in European integration we lean on our culture and promote all creativity, if we are to think about the environment in which we live, if we are to take care of our language, then we should become all the concerns and fears we have to overcome. We are no better and no worse than the rest of the Europeans. We must be open to all the impulses of the modern world and at the same time confidently rely on our tradition and creation. The identity is awareness of the power, fullness and diversity of its culture, in which man can be realized without abandoning his language and his belongings. We have our own tradition, we have our own language, we have our own culture, which is also a European culture, we have our own intelligence and creativity. Above all, we have a large number of educated and capable individuals in all areas. If we create favourable conditions for their work, scientific research and cultural creation, we need not be afraid of anything. We will be equal if we want to, culturally strong and independent, because we are able to do so. In doing so, we need to develop, more than ever, our own democratic life, the culture of our democratic life, which will compete for the benefit of the Slovenian Republic and its citizens in competition for various ideas; this depends heavily on it. Participation in public affairs should be attracted as much as possible to citizens who are not indifferent to our common future. We need to fill our own economic, social and cultural lives with European content. Once we have done so, we will not have to fear European integration and open competition on the European scene in any area. In doing so, we must not only deal with how we will maintain ourselves, but we must strive to bring original creations and our own perspectives on life in the common European house to other European nations. Slovenians, who in various countries felt like a minority nation, now that we are in our country, we must do everything we can to make Italian and Hungarian communities feel like fully equal citizens. This means that we must always listen to their opinions. One of the fundamental criteria for whether they are equal is the fact that this situation is felt and not evaluated by the majority people. With all determination, we will also demand similar treatment of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria and Hungary. We cannot demand equal legislation, but we can demand the protection of the cultural identity of Slovenians in these countries from the standpoint of European principles and not on paper, but in real life. Again, the criteria will not be an assessment of the political representatives of the majority people, but an assessment of the members of the minority. The borders are falling, the European Union, which we have taken seriously in our deepest conviction, and we are also convinced that in today's Europe it is no longer possible to act solely with arguments of power, but with the power of argument. And we will do so with regard to the protection of our minorities. Among us are the members of other people, as we call them, of the non-automatic nationalities. They should also be able to nurture their own culture and traditions. No citizen of Slovenia shall feel neglected because of his cultural background. This also applies to the free confession and practice of religious life. Slovenia must remain an open and tolerant society to all views that comply with constitutional standards and democratic principles. The authorities must also listen to all civil movements and groups fighting against various forms of hidden discrimination. In doing so, we must not ignore efforts to eliminate the most widespread form of discrimination that is present, that is, discrimination against older people and persons with disabilities. In addition to what the State can directly do by means of measures and regulations, further movements in education and the new concept of solidarity in society need to be achieved. Many Slovenians, many of our relatives live abroad and many of them still maintain Slovenian language and culture, but not many have lost their language, but they still feel a genuine attachment to Slovenia. Among them are top scientists, successful entrepreneurs and influential experts in various fields. This is a great human potential that will be more functionally linked to the Slovenian economy, science and culture than ever before. I wish that Slovenians living around the world would no longer see their homelands as countries of division and political conflict, but as for all peoples of good will, an open society, especially as a modern and successful country in which they will find the right interlocutors ready to participate in various areas. Your Honor! The government, which I will propose if you support me, will be based on the knowledge that our external political plans have been well-happy for us. The work will continue with the assumption that we need to consolidate a good international situation and that we need to establish ourselves in the best, most demanding society. Over the next period, we will not compete for membership in the European Union and NATO, but for the best possible achievements in this membership. They take Slovenia seriously and respectfully in this membership, so we are entrusted with leading the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in 2005. However, it is also possible for Slovenia, as the first among the new members, to preside over the European Union as early as 2007. The scene at which we perform is challenging, full of novelties, opportunities, initiatives, ideas, ingenuity and excellent players. One such idea is the idea of "euroregion", which we do not reject, to the extent that it would allow Slovenia to be established as a whole and that Slovenia or Ljubljana will become its centre. Today is a time of government, as well as of state, non-governmental factors and initiatives. We will not ask anyone for permission to respond to such challenges if we decide that the proposals are useful and that they allow for the release of Slovenian entrepreneurial, cultural, scientific and political potentials. Many ask what we intend to do about our relations with Croatia. These relations are important, but they are burdened by the problems that arise all along from the former common country. We are not guilty of them either by Slovenians or by Croats, but we will save them not by confrontation, but by cooperation and strategic partnership. We will not rescue them either at the expense of Croatia or at the expense of Slovenia, but by gaining both countries and no country will be harmed. Croatia will soon join us in the European Union and NATO. It would be wise if we could help each other before that and then. However, we must not be naive in doing so. Slovenia has no new requirements, but we intend to keep what is ours. In our relations with other countries, including neighbouring countries, we have found how relaxing receptions work, which distinguish professional issues from political ones, and which raise questions that seem insurmountable at some level, at another level, such as intellectual, legal or historical debates. Therefore, we want to address individual aspects of our relations with Croatia and with other countries or nations in South-Eastern Europe in a more relaxed framework, such as negotiations between state delegations. That is why we have already proposed the establishment of a special historical commission to review the 20th century meeting of Slovenians and Croats and open questions. We are confident that we will find much encouraging material. In particular, in Slovenia we need an organised approach to linking all knowledge and expertise that can help us find the best solutions to open issues between countries. Slovenia and Ljubljana have always been at the centre and intersection of European transport routes. From Trieste or Kopra and Ljubljana leads the way to Vienna and further north-east, from Trieste or Kopra and Ljubljana leads the way to Hungary and Ukraine, from Trieste or Kopra via Ljubljana leads the way to Croatia, Serbia, to Istanbul and beyond. And from these lands they lead the way to the west, towards Ljubljana. The government, which I will propose if you confirm my candidacy for its President, will also build on this special position of Slovenia. These routes define Slovenia as a priority location for Mediterranean-Mediterranean and Western-Eastern relations. The first condition that we will be able to take advantage of this situation is that we are fully aware of it. Your Honor! I would like to give you a brief presentation of some of the highlights of the draft government programme that I will propose with the government when you make a positive decision. I would like to point out that this is just a few points and that many important areas will be presented at the time of the government's presentation. I also point out that in Slovenia, in the last year, some good debates on the future of Slovenia have been organised, which have brought not only a higher culture of dialogue, but also a number of useful reflections on the current situation of the country and a series of good suggestions on how to act in the future in various areas. I am thinking in particular of the discussions with the President of the Republic, of the wider debates within the Council for the Republic, as well as of the discussions at Forum 21 and of the organisation of the Council of State, which was very active in this field. I also include a draft government strategy for the development of Slovenia, which brings a number of good answers to the country's sustainable development dilemmas in the next decade. All of this is proof that we are going through a lot of strategic knowledge in Slovenia, and the future government is obliged to use all of this. I hope that the fruitful debate in civil society will continue during the auspicious year. I would also like to invite quality scientists and experts, regardless of the color, to participate in government strategic councils, as well as successful entrepreneurs and others with direct experience. Our main long-term strategic goal is the well-being of Slovenia or the well-being of all who live in it. It is based on high economic growth and high gross domestic product per capita, comparable to the most developed countries of the European Union or the average of the old members of the European Union. It is necessary to accelerate economic growth to a level that will exceed the average economic growth in EU Member States or the average of the former 15 for at least 3%. By the end of the mandate, we would like to get as close as possible to the key macroeconomic and development goals set by the European Union under the Lisbon Strategy in 2000. Although today the whole European Union faces great difficulties in achieving its objectives after the first part of the phase, I personally find it more important than merely achieving high percentages and on average the quality of life. Therefore, the key word we take from the Lisbon Strategy, sustainable development and around it will also build the concept of Slovenian development in the future. Even if we are marginally lagging behind after full productivity and efficiency, if the European Union is lagging behind the United States or Asia in a slight way, and if we take the lead in quality of life, we can be satisfied with the results of the Lisbon Strategy. The path towards achieving these objectives is largely in line with the path of other countries of the European Union, as Slovenia shares with them a number of economic problems: unfavourable demographic movements, this labour market, lack of efficiency in research and development and consequently technological lagging behind the United States and Asian countries. Slovenia's specific economic problems, in view of the other countries of the European Union, are significantly less important for our economic development than the core of the common problems that we share with them. It is therefore necessary to take documents addressing pan-European economic problems as basic strategic documents of our development, including the 2000 Lisbon Strategy and the Lisbon Strategy Report prepared by Wima Koka in November 2004. The excessive role of the state in the economy must be reduced. Faster and more transparent privatisation of the state sector is needed. The funds thus obtained are not allowed to be spent on current consumption. They should create a state reserve fund that can cover unforeseen expenditure and reduce the pressure of the pension system on the labour market and, above all, enable a new development cycle. Our health insurance based on the payment system will no longer be able to tolerate demographic pressures and the promotion of health services due to technological progress for a long time. It is therefore necessary to reform, which must ensure a stable healthcare system. Stable pension and healthcare systems are important foundations for a well-functioning, connected and friendly society. Pensioners earned their pension as a rule in a situation that we can very likely claim to have been more resilient than those of the active generation waiting for in the future. Therefore, it would not be fair for the standard of pensioners, irrespective of the serious financial situation of the pension fund, to fall behind the standards of the other generations. Of course, it would not be fair to go beyond it and not be expected by pensioners. Fair intergenerational relations are required and the state is obliged to ensure them. Slovenia is so developed that it does not need to withdraw the necessary basis for a new start at the expense of pensioners' rights, family policy funds and education generation. These rights must be inviolable at this stage of development. The labour market in Slovenia has not formally liberalised, but the protection of workers is relative, as tens of thousands have lost their jobs in the last decade without any real compensation. There is a need to significantly facilitate temporary employment and to simplify procedures for the employment and termination of the employment relationship, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no economic reason why jobs in the administration are more secure than those in the economy. Besides, it's not fair. We must seriously face the dilemma of centralised wage negotiations, because this negotiation, due to asymmetric productivity shocks, leads to the fact that industries that are economically lagging behind cannot pay workers and forgive workers and successful industries cannot pay good workers enough. Both employers and trade unions must finally face the fact that good wages and solid working conditions are the basic motive for good work and that this labour market is fully harmful to workers as well. Instead of the current partial solutions, a more fundamental tax reform is needed, reducing taxes on work and adapting capital taxes so that we can find a compromise between efficiency and justice in the best possible way. So that we will still be tax-interesting for foreign investors, while at the same time richer or capital owners will pay more for the production of public goods. Cartel interlacing, especially informal, of our economy, is one of the most pressing problems that hinder our economic development. This is often the case with links at the border of criminal activity, such as the parking of shares which, due to their capital, media and political power, no one hopes to be effectively placed on the brink. This cartel link has two types of negative consequences: consumer exploitation and economic growth. It is therefore imperative to strengthen the Office for the Protection of Competition in order to be able to act quickly and effectively and to judge the problems of competition protection rather than to wait for a decision for years and, in the meantime, the work of the economy is irreparable. The Office also hesitates in its decisions because it is not independent enough and because it does not have professional authority to enforce the law without compromise. Also in so-called free activities in Slovenia, a number of cartels are operating, of which notaries have recently been the most visible. Liberalisation of the Notary Services market is more than necessary. While we must strongly defend and defend the independence of the judiciary, in particular independence and impartiality in dealing with individual cases, we must, as taxpayers and as the legislative or executive branch of the judiciary, equally insist on the effectiveness of the judiciary. It is unacceptable that on average every fourth citizen of Slovenia has waited too long for a fair verdict in court. It is unacceptable that large corruption and other criminal convictions are resolved with the same priority as society's less dangerous crimes. It is unacceptable for prosecutors to file dozens of pending cases and then leave unpunished and become lawyers peacefully. Organization measures, potential legislative changes and promotion of those in the police, the prosecution and the judiciary that have proven their effectiveness in quality work so far must ensure effective legal security for citizens as soon as possible. The strategic position of Slovenia changed significantly with Slovenia's entry into NATO and the European Union this year. From now on, Slovenia will ensure the security of the population and the country and its interests in the new security environment of asymmetric threats through the collective defence of the NATO Union, in line with its capabilities, contribute to the operations of the European Union and the UN and further develop its national needs and traditions specific objectives. The Slovenian army will be smaller than the current plans, but due to a larger professional battle core, greater skill, preparedness and equipment it will be much more effective and more useful to deal with modern security threats than ever before. I have already proposed certain changes to the structure of government departments to the National Assembly, along with other fellow Members and colleagues. These changes stem from the desire for logical organisation, rational and coordinated functioning of the government and the state administration. The establishment of a new Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology reflects the view of the future government on the future of Slovenian society. We want to develop it into a knowledge-based society, especially top-notch knowledge, and information. Another major change is the establishment of the Ministry of Public Administration. With it, we want to ensure a coherent and more rational functioning of the services so far dispersed, which have the same objective, quality and effective public administration, which will act as a service for citizens and businesses. One of my priorities, if elected as Prime Minister, will be to care for a more friendly, more transparent and more effective public administration. The public administration must act as a service to citizens and economies. In the eyes of domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, Slovenia is today still a country that does not provide a friendly administrative environment. Although the government has made efforts in the previous mandate to remove administrative barriers, international studies show that it has been insufficient. As soon as the government is established, we will set up a project group in which representatives of the state administration and representatives of the economy will sit together and take decisions in small, medium and large enterprises. This group will review all the rules that may introduce new bureaucratic barriers to entrepreneurship and will represent an effective anti-biocratic filter. The public is convinced that the country administration in Slovenia is too expensive and too extensive. According to my experience, the main problem is that employees in the administration are burdened unevenly. Some are almost incinerated, but many are doing little or nothing. With better, evener exploitation of the human resources potential, modern approaches will gradually reduce the number of employees at least in the civil part of the state administration, especially on the route of natural outflows, and we will re-examine the need for an enormous number of new jobs envisaged in the military and police. Employment procedures in the administration, including in the highest places, are relatively well placed in the legislation. If I am elected, the government, under my leadership, will respect the principle of choosing the most qualified candidate for a job in the state administration. I will commit myself to the whole public sector acting in a completely open and transparent manner. The government will require all in the public sector to respect the law on access to information of a public nature in a consistent manner. In this law, we will remove obstacles that are often referred to by institutions in the public sector when they want to cover up information about their operation. We will clearly legislate to the public the data on salaries and all other benefits and the costs incurred by public officials and public servants; we will give the public an absolute advantage over the protection of personal data. The law will also provide the public with information on complaints, requests for investigation and charges against public officials and public servants in matters relating to the performance of their service. We will also provide public documentation on public procurement. We will fight against the bureaucratic arrogant and ask the public administration to respond within a reasonable time to the criticisms, comments and proposals of citizens. With clear procedural standards, the ministries will commit themselves to involving the public concerned in regulatory processes. We will continue the successful development of electronic commerce in public administration. Emphasis will be placed on the completed information and interconnection of all databases. We will also continue to introduce electronic services for citizens and businesses and ensure the electronic execution of all the major services that can be provided electronically. In the coming term, it will also be necessary to cut off the Gordy knot that was created in the implementation of the new Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which has been delayed from year to year. The mistakes made in the past mandate have taught us not to set unrealistic deadlines and expectations in this area. Together with the social partners, we will carefully consider whether the centralised way of regulating all wages in a single collective agreement is even realistic. The system will be set up to allow some flexibility to the government and to stimulate employees who are above average. However, I intend, as a matter of priority, to prevent the extraordinary high wages of some leading public institutions and other public sector institutions. In particular, I would like to stress that the government will consistently respect the agreements reached on wage escalation in 2005. Slovenia can build its future on a good educational process, on values that connect citizens, and on knowledge that creates a higher quality of life and is the basis of development. We will continue the reform of education in a way that will receive the broadest possible social consensus and be adapted in the first place to our historical and cultural environment. Foreign models can only help us as a welcome addition and not as a copy. The school must be excellent, but also relaxed, where students will not only be a vessel for the storage of information and data, but also active participants, which enable them to understand, use and design the acquired knowledge. Only in this way will they be able to face the issues and dilemmas brought about by professional and other everyday life. The goal is difficult, requires great effort to reform a nine-year-old and a secondary school. But I'm sure we can do all this. Knowledge - based society does not exclude anyone or, in other words, needs anyone who can contribute to development by his power. That is why we will also give greater emphasis to lifelong education and the elimination of backlogs in so-called functional illiteracy, which is a major problem. The number of tertiary forms of education has doubled over the past year, bringing us closer to the European average. We are aware of this that the conditions of the study have not improved during this period. This is also why the so-called Bologna Process is a welcome opportunity for appropriate reform of higher education in Slovenia, as it will bring international mobility, European comparability and, above all, education, the most important institutions of Slovenian identity, which will be more competitive in the common European labour and knowledge market. Slovenia shares a common development vision with other EU members. The Lisbon Strategy sets bold development goals - in a few years to establish competitiveness with the best "players" in the world. In order to achieve this goal, we will have to connect the university even more closely with science and place it even more in the role of innovative society and development. For this task, we will have to double our investment in R & D by 2010. In doing so, however, we will create the conditions for taxing money to be used more carefully and more transparently in terms of strengthening the technological and innovation potential of the Slovenian economy, which will also be able to develop more demanding technologies and programmes with higher added value. I am convinced that the establishment of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development is a necessary step in this direction, but of course I am also aware that it is not enough. Slovenia is not an isolated island in the middle of the world. It is part of a modern Europe and is clearly linked to the environment in which it lives, as well as to the global environment. In Slovenia we have limited natural resources. We don't have oil, broad fields or gold mines. However, we still have a relatively unspoiled nature, and this is an important value in today's Europe, not least the source of future generations' income. Therefore, we do not know how to imagine a good future and sustainable development without, to the extent possible, taking good care of the environment and the space in all its dimensions and the interlinkages between them. In order to achieve this objective, the broadest consensus is expected and there is no doubt that we must respect the principles of the Kyoto Agreement in a consistent manner and strive for a systematic order in space. We intend to give special attention to nature protection. After concern about the debate and taking into account the numerous comments raised, and also to ensure that the Triglav National Park is properly regulated. With the average faster development, we must also reduce the differences in development between individual regions and the associated higher standard of living and the quality of life of people in all parts of Slovenia. We will also create preconditions for the expansion of the enterprise initiative in less developed environments, especially for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will introduce incentive measures that will attract economic operators to a greater extent to development projects across regional centres. The funds available in the cohesion and structural funds of the European Union will focus on activating the potentials of each region. In doing so, we will give greater attention to the modernisation of the personnel involved in or able to obtain funds with a view to making better use of the funds. The decentralisation of the country, which will be addressed not only through regionalisation but also through the gradual distribution of certain state institutions across different Slovenian cities, will also contribute to smaller differences between regions. The programming direction of agriculture is based on the concept of multi-purposeism, which is based on rural development policy, which includes care for the preservation of population, the cultural appearance of the landscape and the provision of economic, social and cultural progress in rural areas. Key highlights are support for measures to promote structural adaptation and rural development, green farming, family farms, agricultural investment, raising the educational level of farmers, concentration and rounding of agricultural land as one of the fundamental prerequisites for enhancing the competitiveness of farms, protecting the economic security of farms against the consequences of natural disasters, etc. The development concepts of farms must be based on the quality of food produced, on effective quality control of domestic crops and imported raw materials for processing and on the promotion of Slovenia's unimpaired food products. In doing so, we would like to take advantage of the important advantage that Slovenia is still experiencing significant areas of land that are not contaminated and of sufficient farms that could be important partners in the food processing industry by means of a co-natural processing of faulty areas. Given that competition on the price side of food products is increasing with the entry into the European Union and is less on the quality side, this concept is almost the only one, but certainly the most promising solution of Slovenian agriculture and the related processing industry. Your Honor! In Slovenia, too, these days, we are surprisingly engaged in how the United States is to be divided after the last presidential elections. Sometimes I think we'd be more concerned about this division than the Americans themselves, where both the winners and the losers have been calling for a day after the elections to go beyond the overwhelming pre-election divisions and to restore national unity on the most important issues. I think it would be right if we were more concerned than US electoral divisions with our division, which is not pre-election, but is constantly following us from the history of the previous century and still as an unconscionable past significantly inhibits the necessary cooperation in shaping our common future. I would not even say this today if, even in recent weeks, this division did not prove to be an obstacle to cooperation, which would otherwise be highly desirable in terms of a good future. However, if it remains in this comparison, the country with which we have been engaged in a lot of debates over the past few days, these are the United States, has also had a bloody civil war in its history. However, despite the tragic consequences, this has not caused both fatal division and ours. Why? In history, they agree that because of the 266 words of the then American Republican President Abraham Lincoln, who abolished slavery, among other things, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 1863 pronounced at the cemetery after a dramatic battle at Gettysburg. [[...]] With them he dignified all the dead and fell into war and recognized their human dignity. Despite the heavy civil war, the country quickly withdrew and became world rulers. 60 years have passed since that war, and similar words have not been uttered. In fact, there is no one else who can say them in the same way. Therefore, the path to reconciliation is longer and the experience of the last decade shows that it cannot be reached overnight. Those who have not experienced the times of suffering and distress at that time are likely never fully understood. Nevertheless, we have the right to expect that this past will not be a fateful obstacle to our future and that we will all avoid practices that threaten reconciliation in the name of the common future. As you may have gathered from the above, and in the event of a sufficient number of votes today at the time of the government's presentation, I do not promise 100,000 new jobs and very high economic growth, nor a rapid increase in wages or pensions. This and the like simply cannot be done in a given situation, especially during the night. However, I can promise that in the event of an election, I will make every effort to manage the country in accordance with the Constitution, to ensure that governance is effective, fair and fair and that the conditions for the comprehensive development of individuals, entrepreneurship and culture are improved. I also promise that we will respect the opposition as an integral part of the constitutional order, that we will strive to adopt all good proposals, no matter who their author is, and that the opposition will be able to propose up to a third of the experts to the supervisory councils of public enterprises whose majority owner is still a country. We will also invite a representative of the opposition to the National Security Council, because security is a common good and cannot be shared. Your Honor! Together with you today, I am proud of Slovenia and the successes we have achieved so far. But this year, Slovenia, with membership in the European Union and NATO and with internal changes, has been given the opportunity to take a new path, an opportunity that we have never had before; on the road where we can patiently treat divisions from the past, we can co-create a society of prosperity, a society of fair balance between the market and the social state, a society in which we will be able to choose a man - a man, a free and responsible individual, in the face of our efforts for the common good. If you support me in a secret vote today, I will propose to this high assembly, in confirmation, a government that will put common prosperity at the forefront, to celebrate the events that the Slovenians and all who live in Slovenia have brought together, and a government that will not only want to do effectively, but also good. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you for introducing me to the candidate. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, it is Mr Zammernik on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! I am aware of the difficulties and responsibilities that have been imposed on us by these elections practically at the level of one third of the entire national assembly. This is a responsible and important task. The previous governments, as we have heard in the speaker's words, have also worked hard. A lot has been done well, a lot of things could have been done better. I am convinced that I share the opinion of most Slovenians, that it is good that after 12 years try a different, fresh, new path. Like - I can't get out of the skin that I had eight years of hope from the mayor's skin - then the municipality brought some new, quality movement, so you'll probably agree with the mayors who are here in this high choir as well as the people who are in your congregations. These congregations then brought a new, quality move. I firmly believe that the same quality move will be made even now that after 12 years a somewhat similar government has changed things. After four years, it's still possible to put things back on the old tracks if we find out it was better. But I am personally convinced, and I probably share the opinion of most people that now with more responsible work things can run better than they have done so far. I would only touch on some of the points highlighted by our candidate for terminator. By three percentage points, economic growth is higher than in developed European Unions. But an important emphasis on what is personally more important to me, because these percentage points were somehow used to in the previous government and they didn't mean much to people. The most important point in this was to raise the quality of life for me personally. To people, percentage points, as I said, mean nothing, means raising the quality of life, and that seems to be an important point to me. To sort things out in the field of taxes. You know, you'll probably share with me how many people turn to us every day, because the vats have not measured the same everywhere. It was still valid, unfortunately the Latin one, colleague Moge, as has already been said, as permitted by Jupiter, is not allowed a ox - the Quodticet hunts, the non-hicet will be, if I am not mistaken. Did I say that right? The judiciary, the efficiency of the judiciary. The previous Prime Minister, or the current Prime Minister, I remember talking about this here several times. And unlike the Justice Minister, he agreed that in the field of justice, everything is not as it should be. Of course, citizens and citizens can very strongly agree on this. There are too many people waiting in line for their right for 10 years or more. A more friendly and more efficient public administration system. Bureaucrat barriers. I think the current Minister for the Environment and Space said he had to wait nine years for a building permit. This is a matter that really needs to be done, not just by saying that it is necessary and that it would be good, but by doing so. Public procurement. This is such a mystified matter that a road built by the congregation costs 15 million, or the same road or very similar road built by the state costs 60 million. It's hard to tell why it's like that, but if not impossible, it's hard to get there. Because it says everything here: data protection, competition, and I don't know what else. School system. I am not saying that nothing good has been done in this area, but respected colleagues and colleagues, the burdens of our children in these schools are so strong and cause so much stress that I am confident that these pressures and pressures will be known to these people for a long time. Do we have any information as to how many suicides are contributing to this? What must young people do to reach the points? I was appalled two days ago when my mother came to see me and said that her daughter had to -- it was hard for me to do this with my tongue -- even to provide sexual services to the professor so that she could get enough points. Such things must not be done in this country, and people must must muster up the courage to speak out loud. I hear here that's an insult. And what an insult to this mother that I can bring to you here if you like, Mrs. Potter. A very big insult, greater than what I've done to you now. Reducing disparities between regions. It's a very important point. Most of us come from the countryside and the differences created in this area must be compensated. Now, why do I believe - because this is a program that everyone could support - why I believe it will be different this time. With a candidate for a term of office, we've been co-workers for eight years. When I was deciding whether or not to go to the candidacy this year, and when we had a conversation about it, I am absolutely sure that he is the man who is going to hope for things to say as we say in the jargon, that he will say bob beans. That he would hope to call for the responsibility of the Minister or the President of the Supervisory Board, whoever is in public office, and that he would demand that what has been said be realized. Therefore, our Group of Members will be pleased to support the candidate for the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. Mr Squeakl, who spoke on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members, Mr candidate, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic. Today, one month and six days after the elections - also in the light of the previous discussion - the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is likely to be confirmed. On this basis, let us hope that this month we will also get a proposal from the new government of the Republic of Slovenia by presenting visions, programmes, strategies of individual ministers, ministers of the new government of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I will present some of our introductory views on this agenda item or today's first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. A number of questions will also be raised below. We believe it would be good for the candidate to be identified on these issues. The voters and voters expect clear guidance on the priorities, plans, objectives and ideas of the actual governance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also expected because, if established today, the meeting of the National Assembly will continue with important decisions after the lights of the direct TV transmission have been turned off. We have seen earlier at the beginning of the meeting how the opposition intends to respect itself as an integral part of the constitutional order, because a proposal has been voted for only what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would say: so many Members of the Committee on Internal Policy as set out in this National Assembly adopted Rules of Procedure. Tomorrow we will probably amend three important laws following a reduced procedure: a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, a bill on amendments to the Law on State Administration and a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Members. They were also referred to by the candidate. These laws clearly define the functioning of the executive branch, but they are adopted in the light of yesterday's decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly, following a reduced procedure, to make less important legislative changes. At the same time, the applicants argue that changes are necessary or consistent with the government strategy and are necessary for the implementation of the government's strategy of priority and so on. Is it really less complicated changes and additions? We don't think so. There are two new ministries of public administration and higher education, science and technology, which have direct financial implications for the budget. At the same time, contrary to the need to strengthen the competitiveness of the restructuring economy, an important part of the government, which will burden at least the first half of 2005 a number of resources. The rights are being extended, the legal consequences of the appointment of a Member of the State Secretary are being aligned with the legal consequences of the appointment of a Member as Minister, the possibility is being given to one-third of the State Assembly to leave this National Assembly, to be transferred to Ministers or, following a new one, to State Secretaries, and then to return between Members and Members the day before the end of the term of office. This allows for faster exchange of functions while reducing responsibilities and increased budget burdens. However, of course, we will discuss this tomorrow, including on the committees. However, in everything that has been said so far, including the performance of the candidate, it is not clear, above all, what is the Government's strategy or priorities. Why is that important? It is important because everything with the resources will not be possible. I will therefore continue to divide my address into two parts: first, I will present the assessment of the situation of Slovenia at the end of 2004, which is at the time of the handover of the executive branch to the new government team, and then we will present our assessment of the challenges facing Slovenia now as a member of the EU. These are the challenges of all the new governments of the Republic of Slovenia. At least not much has been said about them today, or something more specific has been said about them. In this part and in particular the continuation of the work of the National Assembly in this mandate will be closely monitored by the SDS party programme, as presented by the candidate who took it to the elections, in relation to what has been said today, and in relation to what will be the new legislative proposals. Above all, it will be important to make promises that will simply not be possible to make if at the same time the new government intends to make commitments when it joins the European Union and when it prepares to join the Economic and Monetary Union. So let us first look at the assessment of the current situation. We believe that the new government is preparing a good legacy. In 2004, Slovenia will achieve 4% economic growth, four times the rate of growth in the European Union of 25 in the past year and more than once, by 100%, than the current growth in the European Union. So we have good economic growth that allows Slovenia to catch up with European development. As a result, Slovenia is estimated to be at 78 EU average in 2004. So, more than 4% of the point at the beginning of the mandate and between individual Member States, we exceed all the new EU members, with the exception of Cyprus, and we have exceeded the first EU member15, Portugal. The candidate did not mention such a goal today. The objective of economic growth, the objective of achieving an average level of development in the EU is the most synthetic goal of a well-run country, or of increasing the above-mentioned quality of human life for all of us. In some of the works, it can be understood, and I believe that this will be the case, so today we note this change that Slovenia is expected to reach 80% of the EU average in 2008. This is an unambitious goal, too obsessive and inadequate. Why is he so low? In order to make it easier to overcome it, or because they do not know the professional basis for preparing for the strategy for the development of Slovenia. This is a public document of the Republic of Slovenia that has been under public debate for more than half a year. The main objective of this document is that Slovenia is expected to exceed 100% of the European Union's level by 2013 or to exceed the European Union average. This requires Slovenia to reach at least 88% of the European Union average in 2008. That would be an appropriate goal. Everything else means that a reserve is being created, as due to errors, ignorance, lack of adequacy of measures compared to the mandate that is now being concluded, economic growth can be halved. This is not in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Next. In 2004, the unemployment rate decreased to the lowest after independence, reaching 6.6%, which is less than the European level for a poor third. This is the result of a good employment promotion policy through a series of instruments. In the area of national economic policy, policy measures have made progress in addressing certain imbalances, particularly in reducing inflation and reducing wage growth. The public deficit has fallen below the average of the European Union countries and also below the 2000 deficit limit. Slovenia succeeded in reducing the public financial deficit by 3% in 2000 [[We know who was in the government at the time.]] 1.9% of gross domestic product in 2004; although there were lower economic growth in the European Union during this period, as I said earlier. At the same time, the European Union has put 15 of the public financial surplus due to problems within the European Union 15 at a disadvantage. With these results, Slovenia has improved the situation in the European Union 25 and is now 11th in the ranking of countries - we are 11th in the 25th! The increase in consumer prices began to decline in 2001 and dropped by 5.1 percentage points by July this year and is today to 3.8% year-on-year. This allowed entry, the first step towards taking over the euro. At the same time, the increase in regulated prices has decreased to 4% and is thus, for the first time in years, lower than the free-forming price growth. For 7 percentage points or more than half, nominal interest rates on tolar short-term loans in the economy decreased during the period 2000-2004. At the same time, the 4.5% high interest rate margin decreased to less than 3. This is already comparable to the margins in the European Union, and businesses that are now in debt at home and not in foreign markets know this. Undoubtedly, Slovenia has achieved significant structural shifts in recent years. The main factors of structural transformation are based on the development of a knowledge-based society, the strengthening of economic competitiveness, the liberalisation of infrastructure and the changed role of the country in economic development. The examination shows that a good legacy is in place. The final result is that social development indicators are favourable. In the case of a common indicator, the human development index, Slovenia is among 177 countries from 29th place in 2001 [[The latest comparisons are 2000]] She came to the 27th place. In the sub-index of education, a key element in terms of what Slovenia has, 2 million Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we have reached 21st place among 177 countries. At the same time, the life expectancy is increasing, the level of social protection is increasing and the risk of poverty is decreasing and income inequality is not increasing. The effects of pension reform, unlike other countries, are reflected in the stability of the pension system. At the environmental development aid, high energy intensity is gradually decreasing and the share of renewable resources and organic farming is relatively high. The interregional differences, mentioned earlier by some by gross domestic product per capita, are comparatively low. Differences between regions began to decline in 2003. Thus Slovenia is one of the countries where inter-regional differences are least. In the European Union, this is Sweden, Greece and the Netherlands. If we close this part. Slovenia is now a fully recognised and well-established member of the European Union, preparing for entry into the Economic and Monetary Union and without any problems has taken the first step towards entering the exchange mechanism of exchange rate 2 in June 2004, half a year before the planned entry. The value of most indicators for monitoring and implementing economic development strategies is improving. However, the story is not closed. The development report has clearly highlighted some structural weaknesses that prevent rapid development in specific areas. These findings were also one of the main reasons why the government decided to draw up a new development strategy in 2003. And it is in this issue that the key challenges of the leadership of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia are presented. The assessment of the status of the text of the proposal for a strategy for the development of Slovenia states: "Restructuring slowness, result [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the transition strategy, which has reduced the social price, but it is now necessary to replace the backlog in structural reforms in the non-minor sector with a well-thought industrial policy, to accelerate restructuring and, of course, to continue the sustainable decline in inflation." [[...]] In these weeks, the government, which will hand over its mandate, has foreseen a number of concrete measures, development programmes that will accelerate - and must accelerate - the development of the most important areas of economic development. This, however, is to ensure effective investment in education, research, faster restructuring towards high-tech economic activities, greater efficiency and evaluation of the functioning of the country and improvement of the institutional environment for the competitiveness and innovation of the economy. On this basis, five key development programmes of the strategy for the development of Slovenia have been developed. We believe that these should also become the basic programmes of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the new governments must implement them. This is, for the first time, a more efficient use of knowledge for economic development and the creation of quality jobs, entirely in line with Mr Kok's analysis of the Lisbon Strategy, mentioned earlier by the candidate. Secondly, the creation of a competitive business environment and the provision of efficient, cheaper countries, but with clear commitments to reduce public financial expenditure. Third time. Concerned about comprehensive human development and quality of life, maintaining coherent regional development and finally furthering the implementation of Slovenia in the world. Taking into account the above is a fundamental challenge for the candidate gentleman and the new government to implement the measures outlined in the proposal for a strategy for the development of Slovenia. The technical and political foundations are ready; now there is a need for political will; we have heard something about this today, but we estimate that there is not enough, and we expect that much more will be said when the whole government is appointed or proposed. Allow me to speak in the end about our support or non-support to the candidate. In doing so, I must first comment that in the flood of current media understandings, what and why something has happened in this year's elections and what are the immediate consequences of the outcome, there is an issue about the normality that is expected to occur. On the one hand, we should therefore do this by stressing the self-explanatory fact that in representative democracies the change of power is in itself normal. At this point, we would like to point out more rarely that this year, for the first time by non-relative parties, these elections are perceived as legitimate and questionable. So far, unfortunately, it has always been true - in 1996 and so on. or in the case of local elections - that elections by relative losers were regularly and systematically classified as disputed, purchased, in no way relevantly decisive, and the people knowingly and incomprehensible. Public media were considered by those to be an extension and instrument for reproduction of a democratic deficit regime. After this year's 3rd October, when long-term roles have changed, there is no such thing. In the LDS, we fully recognise and respect the electoral results as indisputable and with nothing significantly hampered by the growth of human will. We also feel justified that a party, a relative winner, nominates a candidate for a prime minister and a prime minister, so not only do we not challenge this, but we are not trying to block the realization of this legitimate right by creating any bloc of parties. In this way, we hope that the normality of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia will be strengthened in the long term. With regard to the election of the mandate-holder, we have already proposed constitutional changes in the previous term to eliminate the incomprehensibility of double-declaration in the matter of the constitution of the new government. This "unique" burdens the normality of our parliamentary system. We regret that, because of the short-term accounts of individual parties who are likely to regret this today, we have failed to gather the necessary majority to eliminate this constitutional indiscretion and we ourselves will try to be able in this reference to a state-of-the-art effort - together, of course, with whom I believe. The normality of democracy includes dialogue and the participation of other competitors, and before this year's elections, the LDS has once again made it clear and publicly that it does not refuse to cooperate with others in advance by joining the National Assembly of legitimate political parties. Of course, those who take open and united will seriously cannot do so only with conditions and relationships in which they would play a leading role. It is not difficult to be open if you are "up"; this is proved by past mandates, but in both directions. Also, in Slovenian politics it was much harder to be truly open if you are not the first, and especially if, as it is said in sport, you are in a "unappreciative second place". And this is our second contribution to the normality of Slovenian democracy. When today's candidate, after the elections, addressed us with an initiative to discuss cooperation, we therefore did not take into account any foreign party motives that might have responded with the principle of willingness to talk. We would like to hear the reasons which led to such an invitation, to check their conviction from the point of view of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Our possible involvement in the government after these elections is not self-evident and should be backed up for very good reasons, better than those with which we currently have them. From the internal point of view of the consolidation of the party, as well as from the perspective of the balance in the political relationship in the national Parliament, it is currently possible to find many more reasons for the opposition, while openness remains with the potential willingness to work seriously in favour of the development of the country. Today's decision-making is, as we have shown above, in a formal sense superfluous. The President of the Republic, in interviews with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, recorded more than sufficient support for the candidate. The latter did not express a desire to support the vote at yesterday's meeting between the two parties. Today, when it is not clear which parties will participate in the coalition, what relations will there be between them, how important and imagined is the new government's development vision, how competent, how experienced the team is to carry it out, how strong and how respect the parliamentary opposition will be and how balanced it will be in Slovenia's new political space, today, when there is a question of double voting, there is no conditions for our informed decision to give possible support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Potč is next on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Honourable candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, distinguished colleague and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The polls and voters voted in the National Assembly on 3 October this year for the SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party. This party has also acquired the right to compete first for the post of prime minister for the composition of the government. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have respected and stressed this fact since the moment the election results were declared. We have also stressed that we want the Prime Minister to be elected as soon as possible and that a new government is also elected within a reasonable time so that after hundreds of days to organise it, which is the standard in developed parliamentary democracy, the new power and opposition can begin to play their constitutional role and their tasks. In the parliamentary group and in the bodies of the United List of Social Democrats, we have carefully weighed the arguments for our situation over the next four years, both in terms of the electoral results and the electoral messages, as well as in terms of the obligations to the party's programme and the electoral promises we have made as the only Social Democratic party in Slovenia. We have always been aware and stressed that our constitutional system assumes that they have a fundamental responsibility to elect a government party president, who will also form a government. After the election of the Prime Minister, he is obliged to propose a government composition within 15 days. In order to be able to do so, at the time of his election he must already know at least the most urgent composition of the future coalition, otherwise the government's programme, the essential content of the coalition contract, the organisation of his cabinet and the personal composition of the government cannot be postponed within this time frame. And the parties who will form the future government, i.e. the future coalition, have a responsibility before the public and voters to elect the Prime Minister. This also leads them to know that in the event of successful agreements on the composition of the government, they will also ensure its election. All other votes that other parties make visible to the election of the Prime Minister should be made clear to the Prime Minister by means of clear messages on their importance: Do they mean only a gesture of political sympathy, or do they represent a expectation of an invitation to participate, or do they express their willingness to support the government without participation in the coalition? These issues and these reflections were the reason why we have been discussing and meditating on how to proceed in the elections of the Prime Minister for a long time in the United List of Social Democrats. Many of us have warned that the vote on the Prime Minister is systematically and politically linked to our definition of the possibility of participating in the government coalition. To participate in the election of the Prime Minister and not to know what will happen next, it did not seem prudent to us. There were also opinions that the organised vote of the parliamentary group for the Prime Minister meant only respect for the will of voters and voters and did not constitute any systemic or political precedent for the composition of the future government. After a thorough, serious consideration of whether there is sufficient and uniform will in the United List of Social Democrats for possible entry into the coalition, last week the presidency of the United Nations Social Democrats concluded with a large majority of votes, quote: "The Presidency of the United List of Social Democrats, in view of the electoral results, and the discussions so far on the composition of the government, awaits the sure election of the Prime Minister. Therefore, he does not expect Members of the United List of Social Democrats to support the election of the Prime Minister." On the basis of this decision and after the debate in the Group of Members, I am empowered to report that the majority of Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote against the election of Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister. We expect, however, that the potential SDS, Nova Slovenija, SLS and DeSUS coalition will gather more than enough votes for the elected Prime Minister and will also ensure the election of the government within a reasonable time. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will do nothing to make the accelerated process of forming a government difficult or impossible. Today, too, we will not evaluate the government's programme starting points, which we have just heard at last, nor will we compare them with the programmes of future coalition parties, their conduct in the past term in the National Assembly and not with their pre-election promises. However, we expect the Prime Minister to present his government objectives before the election of the government and the future coalition to the public, thus allowing all Members and Members and the entire Slovenian public to become thoroughly aware of the content and objectives of the coalition agreement, so that the comparisons I mentioned above can be made later. We will then do so; rightly, much more correctly, than the future coalition has assessed the government in its previous mandate when it has played an opposition role. However, the programme objectives and the coalition contract will also be assessed and monitored very critically by the constructive opposition, which wants to co-form policies and decisions for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and is always ready to help. As an opposition that will not abuse business opportunities and make decisions difficult in the national assembly, as the opposition so far has often done, now the future government. Like the opposition, which will try to prevent bad government decisions and the majority of governments in Parliament with its proposals for laws and amendments, it will try to contribute to better solutions than the government will propose. We therefore have no doubt about today's election of Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister. We want him to make a good government team and prepare a good government program. As a constructive opposition, we are prepared to act in favour of Slovenia, but if the behaviour of the future coalition is different from the beautiful words we hear after the election, we will also take decisive action against such actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Bajuk has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Janez Janša, distinguished colleague and colleague, all those who participate in this Chamber, as well as those who follow this meeting through the media, are respected. In accordance with the powers conferred on us by our Constitution in its 111st Article, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today decides on the proposal by the President of the Republic, which it has drawn up in consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups regarding the candidate for Prime Minister. So there is one very important decision before us in this reference. Slovenia and Slovenians have decided on democratic regulation and have solemnly written in Article 1 of our Constitution "Slovenia is a democratic republic". The essence of democratic regulation is the rule of the people, that is to say, the regime in which people, either directly or indirectly, choose their leadership. When people decide in the elections of their representatives, they focus on what is essential for a good policy - the vision of social development offered by candidates and whether they are trustworthy; more than on origin, social status, property or externality, which are the characteristics of candidates who only play a second role in the formulation of good policy. These two, the vision of social development and credibility, are a prerequisite for any real progress. This ensures that the best ideas are being put in place, that society is directed by those who can offer it the most, and that the rules of common life are clear. In such a democracy, people are held accountable to themselves, to fellow humans, to society, and to the world. Such a democracy is briefly said, the guarantee of what they used to call "good, a man worth living", and today we call it "quality life". As citizens, we are certainly all interested in living in the atmosphere of such a democratic culture; as politicians, such as those who have entrusted us with their voice and expectations, we have the responsibility to create and strengthen such an atmosphere. Here, before the eyes of our electorates and voters, we decide whether politics will be good or bad; whether people will believe that the society in which we live is worth their work and the creativity of their material and spiritual investments. In front of the electorate, each political party stepped in with its programme. These programmes, which are the fruit of values, visions, behaviours and experiences, today are the card of each parliamentary group in this national assembly: this is what we stand for. On the basis of the content of the programmes, various political parties have gained confidence. On 3 October, the electorate and the electorate handed down their verdict, their final verdict. The undeniable fact is that most Slovenian citizens and citizens have decided to change. In New Slovenia we are happy and proud that the coalition Slovenia, composed of two programme related political parties, wants the greatest support; that the elective body has clearly shown that it wants change and believes that we can make it happen. It trusted our programmes and also our firm commitment that, regardless of the outcome of the elections, we will participate with all our strength in the Slovenian Coalition, which for many democratically sensitive Slovenians has been what has been in the past four years, which has deterred them from suffocating discouragement and has kept the hope that politics and political action as a concern for the common good still has meaning. Together with our partner, the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased to note that, for these essential directions, we are also taking part in the Slovenian People's Party, that is to say, all the political forces we recognize in the programme and way the European People's Party operates, the largest political movement in the wider European area since 1 May this year, our common space. The votes of these Slovenes and Slovenians on 3 October are a clear responsibility before us: to implement the programme, to stick to what we have committed ourselves to. We firmly believe that Slovenia is facing major challenges, but mainly due to the achievements of Euro-Atlantic links - full membership in the EU and NATO - today Slovenia has invaluable resources. In fact, there is a new opportunity that we have never had before. In his presentation, Mr Janez Janša, the candidate for the mandate gave the key points of this joint programme. In short, it is the rule of law; the realization of the essential principle of the rule of law - equality of all, right before the law; the family's more friendly environment, in all areas; as a response to the challenges of demographic trends, which in the long term threaten the very national existence itself; and the consistent implementation of a modern market economy, which, on the one hand, requires the final withdrawal of the country without infertile nostalgia from the role of the producer's owner, in a prudent, gradual and transparent manner. On the other hand, that the whole state assumes the role of introducing clear rules of the game, which must be the same for all, exactly everything, and guarantee their implementation and respect. For the social state on the basis of solidarity, personal responsibility and work evaluation; for a coherent regional development through which we will truly implement the principles of equal opportunities for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and preserve the settlement of the Slovenian countryside. These programming guidelines actually represent a new direction, a new opportunity for Slovenia. The first step on this path is to support and elect a mandate-holder to lead this process. Surely, there will be many responsible and difficult tasks for the future mandate-holder. On 3 October, voters and voters in Janez Janša recognized a man who has all the qualities necessary for a good leader, capable of implementing this programme and leading Slovenia along this new path on the basis of constant care to create as broad a political consensus as possible. In New Slovenia, we firmly believe that Janez Janša, as the new mandate holder, will be able to face all the social, social and economic challenges we face today in Slovenia. In his irreplaceable role in the independence of Slovenia and in his long public activities, he has demonstrated that he is worthy of the confidence required to perform the most responsible functions in the country. Since we are confident that he will be able to lead and coordinate the work of the government as an experienced, professional and determined politician whose word is valid, we will support Janez Janša as Prime Minister in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bayuk. Mr Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, the distinguished candidate for the new Slovenian government's mandate, Mr Janez Janša, a respected colleague and colleague! In these days, we have repeatedly indicated publicly and clearly that we will support the candidate for a new Slovenian government term, and we will do so today, and I reiterate that. The elections just a month ago showed who citizens and citizens want in the mandate of the new government. And they also showed that they want citizens and citizens to change, and the presentation of the candidate's speech has also been largely confirmed. I would like to place some emphasis on our thinking on the functioning of the new government. I will not go to all areas, but just a few necessary and specific points. It seems important to us that the new government will ensure such regional development and create conditions for such municipalities that will bring about approximately equal working conditions and living conditions in all parts of Slovenia. In order to ensure decentralisation, which will allow for an equivalent, even development of all parts of Slovenia and at the same time allow the capital of Slovenia to become a very visible capital of the future euro area. We expect Slovenia to have such a family policy that will ensure the decent life of all of us, wherever we live and whatever we do. We are looking forward to and we will be in favour of an orderly relationship with our neighbours, particularly Croatia; I am sure that this can strengthen Slovenia's position in the European Union. I will be brief and I will end up thinking, above all, that regardless of the final form of the government coalition, we expect a partnership in the government. This will be particularly good for the state of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In democratic societies, it is a custom to get the first chance to form a new government representative of a party that has obtained a majority in the elections. Since Mr Janez Janša is an undeniable winner of the elections on 3 October this year, this opportunity has also been given. From its programme, our Group has been able to understand that there are many points of urgency in it, including the programme that we have defended against our electorate and in which there is sufficient basis for us to understand it, with a certain improvement, as one that ensures the preservation of the social state on the one hand and, of course, economic progress and economic growth on the other, because, if it were not, the social state could not exist in the same extent as it does. I think that Mr Janša, the candidate for the mandate holder, is serious and we believe that he will do the same, so of course we do not want to assess such or other results in advance, but we think that everyone who is in this situation must be given the opportunity to show whether he is also willing to defend himself. Of course, we also believe that he meant it when he said that divisions from the past should not be and should not be an obstacle to development in the future. The President of the Republic has put forward his proposal, we believe that this proposal must be respected, and that is why our parliamentary group will be, despite the fact that there is not yet a decision on whether our party will join the government coalition, thinks it is right to support the mandate holder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. Battelli has the word - he's gone. On the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, I am opening a debate on Members and Members. The first on the list of speakers is Mr Kangler. He's quitting. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Good-bye. We are well known in Slovenia for our innovations and innovations, and for the first time, I note the emphasis on innovation on the political floor, which I am not entirely sure we will get commendation. Three cases. Parliament's seat, where the Slovenian part of the European People's Party sits a little on the far right, a little on the left and in between liberals and many empty chairs, and it will be difficult for our colleagues from Europe on the balcony to understand how such a division has occurred. Second. The number of working bodies proposed that I believe we are leading in Europe and in the world as regards the number of Members and Members ratios. Thirdly, efforts to put together, as commentators say, a "black-and-red coalition" or a government formula that I do not personally see in Europe and developed democracies. Or even to put together a group of parties where we could get a government without opposition, that is, everyone in the coalition. From the Italian past, I know the experience of the so-called historical compromise between former communists and socialists, on the one hand, and Christian Democrats on the other, which has not been declared successful. Reverse! I am therefore the defender of as pure, distinct and unblemished connections and roles as possible, where intertwining is acceptable, acceptable and comprehensible, even desirable, only when it is required by the special, not to say extraordinary circumstances - for example, in the defence of the country. We are living a perfectly normal enabling time where the Slovenian European People's Party has half of all the votes in the National Assembly and only needs a vote for the absolute majority and the creation of conditions of government. Besides, the good of the countries requires a government and a strong opposition that controls it. As far as we know, this time the mandate holder, Comrade Janez Janša, is expected to have not only a voice more, but even six votes more or even more, so I see no reason for him to participate in providing support for his candidacy for the Prime Minister and thereby to assume his part of the responsibility for his future conduct. My trust in this role is not enjoyed because we have known and know what and how we think and how we work for a long time in politics. Not only on my part with the candidate, but on the other hand. I recognize Janša's persistence and principle, so I do not see much chance of being caught or involved in the creation, implementation and implementation of the common policy. I repeat, when there is no emergency. We have different and diametrically opposite views on many things, especially different concepts - and I will avoid the past - of human rights, the importance and role of minority rights or of national minorities. If I stop in Italian for a moment, I regret to find that its central information houses Radio TV Koper - Capistria were at the last session of the RTV world of your kind, colleague Janš, again and in the gravest manner of acquittal to the alleged Italian expansionism. However, progress has been made, I admit that before today's vote, you have invited the two minority Members of Parliament to give them final recognition to the full legitimacy of the discussions on the formation of the government. We also understand differently the role and position of the Roman Catholic Church in public life, the subjects of the popular declaration or referendum decision, the policy of the first world power on the international scene and in particular its doctrinal preventive war, which, by re-election of President Bush, has received a new impetus, and we must be announced, following the American "no" Kyoto Protocol and how to worry; we perceive differently the opposition of Slovenia to the immediate engagement in the Iraqi crisis, as well as in other global crises, the increase in the capacity of the Slovenian army, which I have seen and understood in the draft government programme: from 10 per cent to 40 per cent for fighting outside the territory of members of the Union, NATO is an interesting indicator of this type of intention. We understand the different management of relations with neighbours and ways of resolving open problems with them; we understand the different role of our party or its predecessors in the processes of democratisation of former Yugoslav and then Slovenian society and the self-reliance of Slovenia itself. However, if I am a localist, both of us and many others know how we view the story of the alleged constitutional questionability of the territorial organization of the Koper municipality. While I'm counting on your past efforts to be consistent on the strategic importance and urgency of building a second track from Kopra to Divaca. I would be happy to learn that I am in favour of these differences and disagreements in terms of confusion, but you have not given me this joy, my colleague Janš, on the first opportunity that has been offered to you, and this is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Because the majority of you run it, if you let me, all the criteria of tolerance, competence, European suitability, equal opportunities and choice of candidates - and I don't think of an esteemed colleague of Klavoro - who doesn't belong to this place when these criteria are met. It's not a problem with the candidate himself, it's someone who wrote it down, it's the majority she chose. I'm not in most of these places, so your candidacy for a term of office, Comrade Janš, will not be. Otherwise, at any time, at my discretion, a smart, responsible and useful proposal, which you will present to us as Prime Minister, you will not have to worry about my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, I personally assess that the presentation of the candidate for the mandate was in principle and attractive, as is the case for such occasions and as we are taught by experience, it is also decent. I think she was a little too specific, and I expect to see a little more concrete in the coalition agreement. I think that the name of the future mandate-holder is quite well anchored from the electoral results forward, so that I would not debate this further. In view of the programme that was put in place, it would only touch on the two topics mentioned, namely regionalism and the attitude towards the past. As far as regionalism is concerned, I see that everything since the pre-election period, I think the idea has come to the Slovenian People's Party, started to rock one, I would say a floscule, which is attractive, and I do not object to it myself. But it's not a pigeon on the roof, it's not a sparrow in the hand, it's a sparrow on the roof. This is the so-called euro area where Slovenia and Ljubljana are the centre of this future euro area. That's not a bad idea. I told myself I didn't disagree with her. However, to promise, so exclusively promising a euro area with a centre in Slovenia and in Ljubljana, I find very easy to think, is also misleading, without asking a neighbour, without knowing what it means, to sell a euro area and to inadequately address the problem of regionalism and regional differences here. I think that in the programmes or that the candidate in the programme should define regionalisation in Slovenia slightly more specifically. Here again one case was used by the Slovenian People's Party to move state institutions across Slovenia. That's possible, too. And I'm not a priori against it. However, regional differences will not be reduced if we do not make institutional regionalisation unless we change the constitution if we do not introduce actual regions in Slovenia. And this is what I expected Mr. President-in-Office to give special attention to. Of course, given their behaviour in the previous term, when the constitutional amendment was blocked, this could, I can say, be a somewhat bold expectation. However, the interregional differences in Slovenia, I am sure, will not be reduced if we do not pursue real regionalisation. Here, of course, in the context of the euro area, I also wonder why the future Slovenian region, which is realistically comparable to the European region, would be linked to other regions if the principle of Europe is regionalisation, if we are talking about Europe of the regions, if some parts of Slovenia are historically linked to other areas, breathe with other regions, develop economically with other areas and now open to Europe are also economically and socially involved. Why is a beautiful-sounding euro area that will or will not be? There are a lot of these ideas in our neighborhood. I suppose that this is just the answer to these aspirations, the ideas that are in our neighbourhood, and the policy option that we have with us a priori rejects and poses as a pandande or as some counterweight its idea that sounds good, but the big question is whether it will be realistic and also gives some subton of further centralisation, not decentralisation, and is exclusive to Europe and to European fellow citizens or residents without asking them what they think. I said I'd talk a little bit about the past. Apparently, anyone who comes into power is very self-sufficient. Such a performance was also a performance by Mr candidate for a term of office. Very good. In these days, I have even observed some regret because the United List did not decide to participate in the coalition because the stakes could close some questions from the past. Questions from the past, ladies and gentlemen, we can all close together here in Parliament. We do not need to create a coalition to overcome this historical divide, as some call it. I must say that I myself and my colleagues will support the effort if we come to consensus and try to close some questions. Of course, all victims, respect and peyote will be respected, and of course respect for historical truth, but not that this issue is always served only in the struggle for power. Remember how the opposition in the past reacted to this issue. Very exclusive. I say that me and my colleagues are not prepared to act so exclusively. We're looking for consensus, provided we respect all victims and the historical truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Commissioner! 14 years ago, President France Bučar said that the civil war in Slovenia was ending at the time of the establishment of the then three-house assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. For these historical words, he not only coveted applause and approval, but even later developments showed that the statement might have been too bold for that time, especially if he was thinking of the end of the civil war at the end of the so-called cultural struggle. The exclusion of other thinkers, the opposition, did not end in a later period, and I think we are back in front of an important milestone today. That we are here today to enter into the new quality of democracy, parliamentaryism, parliamentary practice in Slovenia. That's what the electorates allowed us to do. It is important that we know this opportunity to benefit Slovenia. I think that the candidate for a term of office in this interim period has shown an extraordinary degree of tolerance since the elections, an extraordinary degree of integration of all political actors in Slovenia, that it is open to all who are willing to contribute to the well-being of Slovenia. And that's the right method, and that's been a significant understatement in the past period. Even the opposition’s representatives have fallen out of the supervisory boards. Today, we have heard that the candidate for the new term of office also provides a third of the opposition's representatives, which is the only job and only possible to control, to prevent side-effects. I think that as of today, with the opening act of the mandate holder, we are embarking on a serious policy that will allow more tolerance, more breadth in Slovenia. If I correctly understood my speaker, he expressed some regret that in the area of reconciliation they did not take advantage of the opportunity to be exclusive in the past period, because he said that questions from the past could be closed here within. I agree with that, but at least I haven't felt this willingness in eight years. If we all feel the same now that we must and that we will close these questions from the past, then we can applaud. This is what we really need to do, and our candidate for prime minister, and I think he's pointed this width and given all the grounds for this to happen. I am aware that it will not be easy for the Prime Minister and the new government. The country that we accept is not in an enviable condition. A whole bunch of financial problems, public debt. Last but not least, the financial minister, which I must commend, has closed the financial pipe; not only has the budget been blocked for this year, that funds have already been spent, but, according to some information, a considerable amount of money has already been drained from future budgets with so-called pre-emergencies. And this, of course, is not a good trip for a mandate-holder and a new government. For this reason, of course, the Slovenian public must be told that it enters the difficult period at the head of Slovenia, that Slovenia has, of course, internationally achieved extraordinary results, political recognition by entering the European Union and NATO, but that it has not done everything in the internal political field and achieved everything that could be achieved. Of course, we recognize that it is never possible to achieve everything that every authority makes mistakes, and therefore, of course, I am now calling on the opposition to be strict in controlling power. This is always good for citizens. And I'd like to mention another area. The expectations of the Slovenian public are the highest in the area of coherent regional development where the least developed so far. I firmly hope that there will be movement here and, of course, I also want and wish the Prime Minister much success in working for the welfare of the Slovenians over the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Honorable candidate for Prime Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Wait, excuse me. Mr. Terokon has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u28	In view of this doubt, Mr President, I propose that we clarify. He really didn't call me by name or last name, but the predecessor said. If we're going to avoid replicas, I'm going to be talking to the forerunner, and there's not going to be any replicas. As far as the interpretation of my performance is concerned, Mr Jerovšek, I advise you to read a magnetogram, because I think I have been clear enough for the rest of you, but let me just say: we could close this chapter in the past term, on a symbolic level of course, as a national assembly can do so. We didn't do it, we can do it, but we didn't do it in the past, mainly because of the exclusion of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u30	A respected candidate for Prime Minister, a respected colleague and colleague. The electoral result on 3 October showed that voters clearly expressed their desire for changes, which should mainly reflect the leadership and exercise of executive power, i.e. the future government. It is, of course, right that even after the elections in the formation of a majority in the National Assembly and in the formation of a government coalition and government, we take this will of the electorate into account as much as possible. Therefore, given the election result, there is no doubt that the proposed candidate will also be elected. Today and in the coming weeks, we have the opportunity to finally win in Slovenia a government coalition and a government that will be natural and not unnatural, which will not be politically and ideologically diverse, which has been one of the main views of opposition parties, led by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is said that the winning party in this year's elections can eliminate this political anomaly. In the light of the foregoing, it is quite clear that there is no reason for me, as an opposition Member, to support the proposed candidate for Prime Minister. I am also promising, as a candidate for the Prime Minister, that I will respect the government majority as part of the constitutional order to support all good government proposals, regardless of who within the government will be their author. As a good master, I would rather closely monitor and monitor the actions and actions of the government, ministries and individual ministers. Nevertheless, today I will take advantage of the opportunity to state some of my expectations that I expect from the future elected Prime Minister. First time. I expect that the future prime minister, and most likely the elected Prime Minister, will avoid his future role and try to prevent his colleagues from promoting conflicts and constantly painting things in black and white, and to a much greater extent than ever before, acting as a national integral. Another time. I believe and expect that his government and parties, which will form a government coalition, will also implement and not only declare most of their own programming points, particularly those relating to the relationship to minorities, human rights, etc. Third time. I hope that all of us together in this National Assembly will receive dialogue and debate, where there will be far less than half the truths and truths that have been. In short, I want us to get a new government suit, a ministerial cabinet as soon as possible, and get started. There's no reason for this to happen before December's holiday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear High Council, distinguished Mr. Candidate. I know Mr Janša too little personal time to judge his political, professional and managerial abilities. I am also too short of a time in politics to criticise his actions so far, so I would rather talk about where I am more at home, about transport and politics, with the desire that the new president and his new team will continue all the projects and not hinder them that the government has already done so far, that it will build and not destroy what has already been built. I have the feeling that we too often forget the first paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that we are representatives of all people, irrespective of the clientele, that we are actually working for the same people, for the same countries and for the same purposes. In his speech, the candidate has dedicated a few sentences to our extremely important strategic transport position at the intersection of European transport flows, according to my assessment of the lack of attention, but I hope that there will be more talk about this in the government's programme. The fact is that in July, the government of the Master of Robbins adopted for the first time in the history of Slovenia the Slovenian transport policy that we should adopt, our national assembly will confirm as soon as possible, and the new government will upgrade with various national programmes: from national roads and via railways, maritime services and all the way to aviation. The objectives of transport policy must be taken into account. It is very important, not sufficiently horizontal to distinguish between different sectors of transport, but it is essential to build on what transport is actually bringing us as the main movement of any company. Mobility of the population, economic supply, rational use and development of transport infrastructure, then of course ensuring transport safety, environmental protection. All of this, given the rational use of public finances, the creation of added value and, of course, the creation of new jobs. I wish, and I sincerely hope, that there will be no delay in the construction of the highway network, that there will not be a stop in what is said to be the almost solved problems with Luka Koper, with both airports. I wish there was no delay in strengthening and putting our aviation into the European Union. I'm afraid I won't be able to support the candidate myself, because that's how I'd let my constituents and voters down. Nevertheless, I hope that he will live up to all his promises, which he has repeatedly stressed and announced today, but I hope that the President will not only be the programme, not just the new government, not just the new strategies, but in particular the President for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Luci, Miroslav Luci, has the floor. He's quitting. I give my word to Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Mr Janša, dear colleagues and distinguished candidate for the term of office. We can say that Slovenia can do more. We citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens, can do more than has been shown now, as the facts say or as we see the current state of Slovenia. Both at social, technological, economic and judicial and political levels. Above all, we can look forward to a better operation or a better state of affairs with the responsible conduct of the government. Of course, the government does not directly operate the social product or the product or the reduction of unemployment. Especially in the creativity of people is that. The government, however, is the one who can accelerate or hinder. And I am confident that the mandate-holder, with the good leadership that I expect, can develop the relaxed creativity of people in entrepreneurship, where Slovenia, however, is going backwards. Improved schools, where values that shape a person will also be promoted in addition to good knowledge, because knowledge without values is mild and not valid. The reduction of economic differences, developmental differences between regions, was mentioned. It is our responsibility that any person, citizen in this country, will have the same opportunities either for education, for economic development, for entrepreneurship and more. It has been mentioned what the government has done so far. We expected that the existing government would also pour clean wine on our way out. With regard to the reduction of unemployment, we would be very happy if this actually happened. However, we need to ask those 15 or 16,000 unemployed who have been erased, or those who are in active employment policies are in different schools or similar and are not considered unemployed. Once we get that, then the picture will be clearer. In New Slovenia we stress the development of entrepreneurship and ownership in Slovenian hands, however. That is why we were so much more concerned when we discovered that 20,000 self - employed persons had disappeared in the last six years. This is not a good image for Slovenia, but we need to improve it. We need to regulate the country so that it is interesting to invest so that we do not become impatient with foreign investors. Of course, certain caution is needed; so that we do not end up on the tail of scales regarding the appropriateness of the economic environment for investment for entrepreneurship. Here Slovenia has not yet made that breakthrough, and we must do it. It is not that important whether the government owns so many and so many companies or shares of companies on the market, the government is primarily responsible for regulating the market for goods, services, capital and labour. It's the government's responsibility. The mandate, as we have seen, does not promise a thousand jobs and so forth. Above all, he says and commits himself to the responsible leadership of the country in which he will find a man, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, a place for the development of his potentials and for a fair functioning. For these reasons, I myself personally support Mr Janez Janša for his mandate, because I know and I am sure he will be able to lead the government well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. I give my word to Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Thus, elections that have a message value, as always, have taken place. We have received a relative winner or relative winner, who far from has the majority needed to rule. Both parties who have announced the amendments do not have enough votes. Only a third party, which always likes to join, will provide half, which is not enough for the composition of the government. So the electorate and the electorate have told us the ratio of power, as it was to these elections, is neither right nor wrong. It has made it possible to manage without any major effort to agree on common coalition, programme objectives. So we were informed that there was a need for discussion and agreement in the national assembly. In this negotiation, let no one but the Priories be excluded. Thus we have come in line with our arrangement to propose to the Prime Minister. I agree that the election of the Prime Minister and later of his government team are somehow logically linked. But it would not be the first time that one majority elects a president and the other majority elects a government. If we remember in 1996, that's what happened, and that's what happened. That is why, of course, this path is also possible, support for the President and a later negative definition for his government team. The last step in this process is therefore the appointment of a government. Today, we are ahead of the first step, which will allow us to actually see how today's initial presented friendly forecasts will be translated into a government programme. Support to this team will be a decision to take or not to take responsibility for its later results. Such thinking was the closest thing I had ever had. Today, however, we had the opportunity to hear forecasts of the candidate's functioning as Prime Minister. He ended it with a finding of a continuing distribution of roots of 60 years of age. But more than this division is close to the difference in thinking and working from just the end of the mandate. Not long ago, we were always listening to the United List of Social Democrats as a party that does not belong in the executive branch of power. After the elections that have taken place, it follows the invitation and regret of our negative response. This, of course, means that we are a party that is a desirable coalition partner. In addition to the eight-year experience in Parliament, I will also decide today on the basis of everything that has been said today. Let me mention just a few important messages from the candidate for president. It will save relations with Croatia so that we both win and no one loses anything. To reduce the country's over-representation in the economy while also appointing its representatives in the supervisory councils, together with the opposition. Privatisation of the state sector and the money from such a reserve fund is also intended to reduce the pressure of the pension system on the labour market. This would not allow the funds to be spent on current consumption. It is no coincidence that this paragraph follows an area of health where, according to his assessment, it is likely that reform is necessary in a way: more services for the same amount or less money. I'm afraid they see a way towards this goal through the process of further privatisation of health care. So today's decision is just the first step towards a new government. The majority required has already been made public. However, I look forward to the presentations of individual candidates and candidates for individual departments, how they will be included in their programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate, on the basis of what I have heard so far, that my voice will not even be relevant in the appointment of a new mandate, which I think is fine, because I would not want the situation that we had years ago to suffer a position and a rather painful assembly, first of all the confirmation of the mandate holder and then the formation of the government. It is important for Slovenia as a country to get a mandate as soon as possible and then, of course, a quality government. The results of the elections are such as, although I come from one strange environment, where in the three constituencies of Prekmurje we received two liberal Democrats and representatives of New Slovenia, of course, a representative of Hungarian nationality, who might not have sat here if the constitutional appeal had succeeded once precisely the party that proposes the mandate holder. Of course, everything in the program is different today. The programme is very interesting, good in my opinion, perhaps a bit unusual, very well-assessed work of the government as some good basis for further work, which, of course, I very much agree, since this country, these foundations have also been created by liberal democracy and even mentioned by the Slovenian development programme, which was composed of the government so far, the additions we have seen, have been heard in the current programme, are those I also agree with. If you look at the work you've done and these new directions, of course this is the country you want. These two additions may point to the fact that the coalition of a democratic party and liberal democracy would not be ideal, perhaps even necessary, if all of this were true, good work so far and good guidance for the future, but it is beautiful to be true. Time brings its own. The ones we've been sitting here for 12, some of them, few of them, many years, we've been going through a lot. The opposition is in the past, which is likely to now see the work in the government as very bad, the foundations very bad, very different from what we now have in the new mandate, means that everything can then be different. At first, I said how I was going to vote. At first, I said that my voice didn't matter and that it would be what it would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Mr Rudolf Petan, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable assembly, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia! Each period has a characteristic and gives a mark in history. The current period in Slovenia will certainly be marked by Slovenia becoming a member of the European Union and NATO. It is not important to mention in this regard that the recent opposition and also the president of the largest opposition party, who is today a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, has certainly contributed greatly to this, that Slovenia has achieved this integration into the European Union and NATO. Of course, this action has not changed anything. And as we have heard many times, after May 1st, when we became members of the European Union, it came on May 2nd. However, in order for Europe to know us, to identify itself, we must, of course, also think, work and act as Europe does. This means that we need to change a lot of things, set things differently, represent different values, and, finally, also provide conditions for the even development of the whole of Slovenia, not just certain parts. Even so, the majority of citizens and citizens have also shown the national elections on 3 October. Slovenians and Slovenians too want to change, they want another political option to be given the opportunity to lead the country. Certainly and certainly not the way we've been used to it so far. That doesn't mean everything's been bad so far. In doing so, I would like to mention only one specific area which is typical of the present time. I mean climate change here. This is not something that Slovenia can avoid. Slovenia experienced two major natural disasters this year, an earthquake and a terrible storm with a hailstorm in the Slovenian Horses region, not to say Vitanja. But the biggest problem with that is, in the process of being rehabilitated, it was the law of the past. For the Court, for the resolution of the Court, we even had to amend the law so that we could act at all because the old law, the existing law, was useless for this, or even change the conditions because this law was such a huge obstacle that we could hardly find a way out of this problem. This means that during the current period the coalition has not been able to adopt an operational law that would be long-term, which would be comprehensive, which would be complex, which could solve all areas. I am sure that the new mandate holder will be able to do otherwise. Finally, it was Mr Janša himself who proposed that the party running it, namely the SDS, cancel the ten million and instead of the campaign for the pre-election campaign to eliminate the effects of the earthquake and the storm in the wider area of the Slovenian Konjice, of which 3 million was intended to remedy the effects of the storm in the Slovenian Horsemen. That must have been a bold decision. For the funds available for the electoral campaign to give up ten million, this was indeed a radical act that indicated a new approach. This must be something different than we've known before. I'm sure he's pointing in a new direction. I can say that in the area where I come from, this is Slovenian Horsemen, Zreč and Vitanja, we are certainly grateful for this decision. And this money, which was earmarked instead of a pre-election campaign to help deal with those biggest social problems, to deal with the consequences, has helped a lot. I will therefore, of course, support the proposal to confirm Mr Janša as a candidate for Prime Minister. In doing so, of course, I wish him a successful job both in the composition of the government and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Alojz Sok, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members, candidate for the term of office, I welcome you! In any case, Slovenia, with these elections on 3 October, whether we like it or not, has entered a path of normality. That it was a democratic deficit in Slovenia, when capital, the media, and I do not know what else were concentrated in the power of one political option, we felt not only those in the opposition or on the opposition side, but they also warned us about it from abroad. Let me say that at one of the New Slovenia Conventions in pre-election time, the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the European Parliament, Mr Peter Ink, somehow said, "Let today's position be aware that the opposition may be tomorrow, and that today's opposition may be tomorrow's position". This, of course, will also have to be realized by the new position that again after a certain period of time it can be the opposition. And when Slovenia and Slovenian voters start doing so, of course we will be able to talk about some normality. I am sure that even before the Slovenian state, before the Slovenian society, there will be much faster progress than before. We have heard here today that in fact the outgoing government has left a well-to-do future government. Here I wonder if that's true. Look, there was a high economic growth mentioned. However, when I was driving from Ormož today, where I live, towards Ljubljana, I heard that the government first announced that this ruling coalition had made 478 billion guarantees in these years. Most of this money or much of this money has indeed been used for transport policy, but far from being built the highway we would need, not today, but even 30 years ago, the second line of Divaca-Koper has not been built yet, and you know how many times we have been exposed to this dilemma in the opposition. And the fact is, these guarantees will have to be returned by the state if they are not able to return them. Of course, that public debt is not what we could have listened to, it is clear from this information that public debt is much more than 31% of the gross social product. And when the new government comes forward, it will certainly have to make one record, one inventory and one Slovenian public, of what it faces. The pension reform and the pension system were mentioned. And I ask you, is it true that 500,000 pensioners are satisfied with this pension system that we have today? I say no. Although we have saved the pension fund through this law, we have made some kind of hole in the pockets of 500,000 pensioners. And the new government will also have to face this problem thoroughly, how to proceed so that the standard of Slovenian pensioners does not fall behind the standards of other citizens. Regional development, perhaps I overheared, misheard, was even compared to Sweden's regional development. I come from an area where people wouldn't agree. Last year alone, according to the Employment Service of Pomurje, more than 2,000 active people left. Do you know why they're leaving? That's why they're leaving because there's simply no jobs because there's no perspective. They leave mostly young people who have completed their studies, either in Ljubljana, Maribor, who should return to their place after finishing their studies, start working there and start a family. And what will be a great test for the new government and a new position is how to restore development to these places. Once the population leaves, it's hard to convince people to come back. There were stable finances mentioned, and there could be many more, but since we have limited time, it would be limited to just two more. Strategy for the development of Slovenia. Even in this programme, presented by the future mandate-holder, it is mentioned as a good starting point because, of course, it was written by experts, but in the past it has often been a gap between words and actions. Cartel connectivity, the future mandate-holder mentioned, prevented what was happening in a wide range of areas, particularly in the field of the economy, from taking place transparently, in order to make fair progress and to make better progress in Slovenia at this level. And if anything, in these areas, of course, fundamental changes will have to be made. The programme, which was presented, is extremely wide, according to Nova Slovenije's assessment, is very state-owned. I think it also suggests the attitude towards the current opposition. If you've been careful - but if you haven't been, because we've got it written down, you can look at it again - it says in this programme that the future position, the future government, if it comes to it, will take into account all the good proposals of the opposition. With my four-year experience in this House, I can say that this has not been the case in the past four years. Nor is it true that the opposition could play by the rules of procedure, which is simply not possible. The Rules of Procedure must always be written on the skin of the position; this is what I said when the Rules of Procedure were adopted. And I say again: the opposition can never play the rules of procedure, the rules of procedure can always play the position, says the one who has the majority; the one who has the minority can only use those mechanisms that are available to him in the rules of procedure and that protect him from being exploited or misinterpreted by the majority. And we have witnessed this many times in the past. It is not true that we have shown in the beginning today how we will vote. The composition of the Internal Policy Committee was agreed on by the College. This ratio is kind of 8 to 8. And if the Liberal Democracy had succeeded with its proposal, then in all committees it would have been possible to break this relationship in favour of the one who did not receive the majority in the elections. This programme also clearly shows how supervisory committees will be drawn up, not in all companies, but in those companies where the State still owns, and until then, of course, a colleague when the State is the owner. Otherwise, it is the definition that the state of ownership withdraws, clearly and unequivocally written down. And I can say that these words of the mandate holder are serious and that the future government and the future parliamentary position will do the same, but not as we have been given in the past, that the opposition to positions in the supervisory committees should not and could not propose to anyone. This is not how opposition works, for the opposition is always a constructive part of a parliament, a democratic regime. I am confident and also pleased with the statements made by the representatives of the LDS and the United List that they will now do differently than they have done before. I will, of course, support the mandate-holder for the composition of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter, United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! A respected candidate for Prime Minister, wherever you are. I consider the proposal of the President of the country to be predictable and, in the current political practice, also the expected choice resulting from the electoral outcome achieved, as well as the discussions held with the heads of the parliamentary groups and representatives of the two national communities. They showed that the proposed John Janša would receive so much support that he would later be able to form a government. It is also predictable and expected that those who have not received an invitation to participate in or have not agreed to participate in the coalition will not support the candidate for Prime Minister. At least so far it has been common practice for us, so my conduct is not exceptional or is due to any ornithological characteristics. Two elections this year and two electoral campaigns and all political parties convinced me that they existed between the right and left in the Slovenian political space of substantive diversity. What one and the other had in common was at least their support for the well-being of all. But it is obvious that the ways to achieve the well-being of all are different and that these differences are those that convince me that, despite the good will and the awareness that there is always a need for negotiation in politics, consensus will not be so easy to achieve. It is impossible for me to think of any serious political party who wants to take responsibility for the governance of the country as a government party in order to avoid serious issues for pragmatic reasons because of differences in terms of matters. Whether these are questions of equal opportunity, they may be questions concerning human rights, or views of the school system, or views of many things that make us, as we know, quite distinct. And it is precisely that I do not believe that some questions can freeze for four years, but they are allowed to be resolved if, in any other constellation of political objectives, they are hampered by seeing their place in the coalition with the right parties, which is most likely attributed to me and to my view also by those who decided as voters and voters on 3 October. From the opening address of the candidate for Prime Minister, who has a particular rhetoric, since it is nevertheless a matter of disclosing the underlying guidelines, it has been possible to hear more than once that the view has to be turned to the future. But when I listened closely to him, I saw that he had repeatedly returned to the past in his words and arguments. But I do not attribute any weakness to this, because I do not think that there is a future without the past and that man is having a hard time driving through life, especially in politics if he does not recognise his roots. However, there is a duality between what was provided at the beginning and between what was said at the end. At the end of this talk, however, it was said that only those things that would put the common prosperity at the forefront will be acceptable, that we will celebrate the events that are united for the Slovenes and all those who live in Slovenia and so on. I am convinced that it is not possible to do so quickly right now if we are constantly proving and confirming that we are not looking at things the same way. And now here's the thing I always want to talk about when it comes to talking about the program, because I know these two areas best. Apart from claiming to be Slovenians with our culture as part of European cultural space, and culture is our recognition in this space, how old culture we have, how venerable, at least as far as Slovenian language is concerned, has been proven as often as possible in this year. If not, the recent day of the Reformation convinced us of this when we received the translation of the Bible into Slovenian. But about culture, in fact, about what's going to happen to culture in these four years, I haven't heard much about it in the next speech. For another area, which I also know well from my previous work, this is the area of education, and I have heard what I cannot say to the fullest extent. In fact, the goal is to reform a nine-year-old and a secondary school. I am convinced that there has been a lot of knowledge, a lot of effort, and a lot of money in the reform of primary and secondary education so far. That is why I find it offensive, Mr Zammernik, for the school area or for the school field and for all those who work in school if the assessment of everything that has happened in school is reduced to exceptional cases only. I regret all the excesses that happen in school, but behind this excess are usually individuals with names and surnames, so there are procedures that can solve these extraordinary cases. However, I cannot agree with the fact that a nine-year-old and secondary school reform is being re-emerged before we have a thorough evaluation study of experts, I stress, independent experts who will tell us where the corrections are needed and what can be improved. I reiterate that there has been too much investment in education to be easily rejected. I can agree that the development of a knowledge-based society depends also on the development of science and that higher education is an important segment of this development. But unfortunately, I see higher education in school verticals, not separately and only caught up in technological development and the promotion of applied behaviours. We are large or small, but it is because we are a small nation that I think we should demand excellence in knowledge; but excellence in knowledge grows from basic research and not application. Finally, I would like to say that this particular part of education is internally inconvenient, because what is happening in primary and secondary education is expected to grow from our experience in the historical and cultural environment, according to tradition, without excessive comparability with European space, but higher education should suddenly have as the only criterion of assessment only European comparability or, as recorded here, Eurocompatibilities. I think that higher education should also grow from our traditions, from our space, not least because of the development of the Slovenian language, which must not afford any shortage of any area, but also higher education. Let me just pull it off at the end. Even though I will not support you, Mr President-in-Office, I would like your government to do as much for everyone as possible, and we will cooperate as the opposition, when such a programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u46	I was called directly, so there's nothing wrong with you giving me your word. If you have understood me, Mrs Póteta, that I am generalizing one case of excellence in the entire education system, then I apologize to you, you have misunderstood me. It wasn't a generalization, it was just an indication of one case. The fact is, the candidate for a term of office spoke of wanting an excellent school, as I say, that we also have it, but especially a relaxed school. Our children in primary and secondary schools are far from relaxed children. And that affects the generation later, that's what I was talking about, not the case you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you for the replica, Mr. Zammernik. The word is from Dr. Slavko Gaber, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to join in our joint reflection on how power should work in the future. This is mainly when we think about the mandate holder, someone who is supposed to lead the government, and when we think about our share in this. Flexibility in judgment is generally a characteristic of people and there is nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with talking about each other and talking about perspectives on each other. When it comes to governance and when it comes to the management of certain resources, it is different that there is still a great need to judge firmly, responsibly. When we judge such places too quickly and on the run, then it may also be fatal for a certain area. Being in a position is therefore a serious responsibility. I myself will touch on two subjects that, in my opinion, point out that it is necessary to make a very firm assessment of the conduct when we enter a particular area. You won't be surprised to learn that these two themes will concern both of you in the area that I am responsible for at this very moment. It is stated in the speech that the school must quote: "It must be excellent, but also relaxed, where students will not only be a vessel for storing information and data, but active participants, which enable them to understand, use and design the acquired knowledge." From this very simple point of view, today this school is. True, we may claim, as colleague of the Ambassador, that it is excellent, but it also says here that students are only storage vessels. Why is this the wrong approach to solving the problems we have in education in Slovenia? Because it shifts the focus of our attention, including the core of our efforts, away from what the real problems of this school are. For if we spend the next four years dealing with this dilemma, which is wrongly set, then we will miss the time in which we should deal with different, more structured issues and more structured dilemmas. Our problem is, of course, the problem of raising every young person into an adult, into a person who is able to recognize the difference between people who are capable of respecting tradition, into a person who understands that there is a lot of work to be done if you want to achieve much, in a person who respects human rights, etc. Reaching respect for people and solidarity is not easy, we all know that from our families, and we also know that in school. To know that the school does not know this today and that it does not fight to achieve this is simply a false target of problems. How to reduce the amount of violence is discussed yesterday and today by principals and principals in Portorož at a regular annual meeting is a very serious question of how to reduce intolerance in this young generation, how to teach it respect, how to achieve it, is a serious question. But it is not a serious issue to fight for the school to deal with it. School's already on it. It is also not the only question in school if someone wants to share the whole process into education and education just by dividing the process into two, but it is the same important problem in schools to achieve quality knowledge. By the way, knowledge is also values, it carries knowledge of values and knowledge is just a value, including a sense of hardness of effort to learn something by yourself is a learning process. But our problem in Slovenia is how to teach people as quality as possible, as much as possible, is also the problem of how to raise them. In both areas, each generation has a task ahead of them. The simplified division doesn't go far, it concludes too quickly that we know the answer. All we have to do is do this, and everything's gonna be fine. I would like these simplified judgments to be limited because the education system is a hypersensitive system so that we can afford this kind of skipping. For as much as he educates and educates, he educates in our schools, they put a lot of effort into it, along with us, and it is often with little confidence in them. Here let us all try to do something together in this mandate ahead of us, and it will be worth it. Let's try to do it this way, as my colleague Potrate has already said, integrated. The illusion is behind the assumption that we need to divide the core, and we will be successful, and multiple internal structured illusions. It used to be beautifully warned of that double logic. Here at the primary and secondary levels we will be national, but at the level of higher education we will be international. Here, let us not compare ourselves too much at the level of primary schools and secondary schools, but there we will, after the Bologna process. Ladies and gentlemen, this world doesn't work that way. If a person wants to transform Slovenia into a special system, this can be done. The Bologna process, the whole Lisbon strategy, if anyone really reads it, tells us that we need the quantity and quality of knowledge that starts very early. It points out that these divisions do not appear to be carried out, but they are certainly not simplified. For example, if I had to believe, for example, that we should have a divided area, which I suppose we would be talking about tomorrow, in 1996, I would be able to say some good reasons for that. Above all, it was the complexity of everything that needed to be dealt with. In particular, the level of development at which this was all at hand was such that it was not possible to manage the matter from one point. Today, however, we are in a situation characterized by some decisions made by this Parliament that led to the fact that we have a special science agency in which 48 people have already been represented, outside the Ministry, a special technology agency that has left at the Ministry, I think that there are only four other people in employment, in science 12. And we have a statutory establishment of a higher education agency, which, while funding has already been removed from the Ministry, has further burdened the Ministry in this area. I'm giving you an insight into what's already happened so that you can better judge what makes sense. My position, therefore, is that the following premature judgment is too far-fetched, too far-fetched, the one who says, again, I quote the future prime minister: "I am convinced that the establishment of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technological Development is an urgent step in this direction." No, no, no. It's a possible step. It's not an emergency. Germany lives without it. Germany has science and education together, Italy has science and education together, Austria has it together. France has this together. So there's no need here. In fact, it would be advisable to think further about some of the steps, since we all agree that it is necessary to take deliberate steps, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, the candidate for the Slovenian Government's term of office, all those accompanying this meeting today! The fact is, however, that the proposal put forward by Mr Janez Janša, the candidate for Prime Minister, is sufficiently apparent and clearly defined for all the entities that are in this society. It is important that it has touched all areas, both older and disabled, of youth, and then, of course, economic and regionalism and economy, as well as, of course, in this part of the tax policy, as well as in the areas or chapters of the Slovenes in place and around the world. I have not actually heard such a thorough and so elaborate speech by the candidate for Prime Minister, and I have heard some of them in this National Assembly. The fact is that today, for the first time in Parliament, but, of course, I was able to follow from the outside, it is clear that the attitude towards the opposition will be different from that of the past, that the attitude towards the opposition will be such that the opposition can act responsibly, which means, of course, that the opposition will have the opportunity to have information, that is, the most important thing we have dealt with in the opposition before when we did not have those options, so remember the so-called six points that required at least the minimum conditions for the opposition to operate. This time, the candidate for a mandate holder, for the President of the Slovenian Government, was told at the outset that these conditions and these options will be, so of course we are sure that the future opposition will have a much easier job of monitoring and controlling governance, not as it has been in the last 12 years, but, last but not least, I am the third term as a member of the national assembly, and I have only learned after the media what the burdens are, what the budget allocations already are, what the guarantees are. However, it is also important to say on this occasion that the 2005 budget has already been adopted and adopted by the former coalition. This will leave very little room for manoeuvre in this area, which has been stifled by the previous coalition. There was also a lot of talk about what still needs to be done. The motorway programme, which is one of the elements of the development of both the whole country and those of the most underdeveloped regional areas, has been changed several times in this national assembly, has also been restructured several times, and it is necessary to say that it is always worse for those areas that are most underdeveloped. It must be Styria and Prekmurje. As one speaker put it, the need to build further is not undermined. There is nothing to undermine, of course, build, but this will be a very difficult and difficult task with all the commitments made since the guarantees, the 2005 budget overload, the rebalancing and so on on on the highway programme. For at least a few decades, it's a programme for updating the rail network. I will touch the one from which I come: Ptuj, Prague. I think that for more than 30 years all coalition governments have had this in the programme, but it has never even begun to realize, let alone solve this problem. I am confident that with the new mandate holder and the new Slovenian government will truly be the Slovenian government, that it will be a country-efficient and cooperative government. In this way it will ensure what is also written with extraordinary efforts, however, 80% comparability of the average development in Slovenian regions. This is a tremendous resource if we know that today this backlog is at least twice the EU average, but of course it is twice the European average in the central Slovenian region. The distribution of votes, as it happened on 3 October, is actually a confirmation and was expected, even after the four referendums that took place when the nation decided differently than the then ruling coalition. It seems important to me that the awareness of citizens and citizens has somehow raised and the trust and appreciation of 'to go to elections, to cast their vote' has increased so much that they know and realize that they can change what is not good by their voice into better. That is why I will support the candidate for the Slovenian Government's term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Since I have a very limited time, I'll have to hurry. I think that the proposal for a run for Prime Minister is logically the result of the elections, as we have heard many times today. From his program, I have mainly understood that the government will upgrade what has been done well so far and will correct errors or try to remedy shortcomings that have not been implemented so far. I think that such a programme should actually be supported by every Member of this National Assembly, so I am surprised by the argument made by some Members that they cannot support it. In particular, I would like to say what I expect from the new government, and I think that this is also the result of such elections as they were, and this is that the way of work will change the way of governance. From my own experience, I can say that I wanted to change myself, and I want to change and I expect them. I would no longer like to see that, in 1996 when the reform of school legislation and the introduction of a nine-year-old girl was being prepared, I hear from the Minister for Education, then and now, Mr Gabra, that you will still have sufficient authority. This was a response to the request for local communities to be involved in the reform which operators had to be formally local communities. I would like to hear no more as President of the Community Association three years ago on the Committee on Internal Policy, led by Mrs Potrate at the time, and took the floor that I could not present the position of the Association of Municipalities. I would like to be asked, as a father of three elementary school children, what do I think about the education system and not always tire of being so-called professional. Above all, I expect this from the new government, and therefore I think that it is imperative to support the change, the new name that has worked so far in the opposition and only after the new team has been set up will we be able to assess whether such optimistic statistics as the government team has put forward so far can really be sustained. If they are, I think we can do a good job with the new team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, United List of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on my behalf too! Today's debate on the country's proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is much more information than we may have had available during this period until this debate has taken place in the Parliamentary Chamber itself. It is certainly an extremely great responsibility that the candidate assumes, but this is the fruit of the electoral outcome and, of course, it is also a somehow logical consequence of this event. However, I myself note that, after a speech by the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, there should in fact be the most difficulties in supporting directly within the intended parties to form a coalition, as the opposition is given a very large opportunity to act and somehow there is also a large shift from the programme that was presented during the election campaign. So two very important points, which are likely to be crystallized in further procedures. I myself want to participate in these procedures in a way that will be as constructive as possible and will bring solutions that, lastly, we who are in this Chamber are expected by voters and voters. I believe that the candidate who comes, or longer than the candidate, away from the capital or from the larger cities, more specific matters, is in fact the place and the electorate and the electorate to this candidate. Therefore, I will certainly not care how this government is formed, who will also occupy the most responsible places in the government. I would like to have interlocutors to solve all the problems that arise in the development of an individual place, as well as countries as a whole. In this regard, in particular, I am referring to the fact that the United List is one of those parties that has achieved a very good result in these elections, and it certainly does not care how the country is going to be led during this period when we joined the European Union and have also become a NATO member. And especially because we have an extremely important task ahead of us, taking over the euro is a great goal and, at the same time, a responsibility that I think we can assume and only carry out in such a way that the economy actually achieves its competitive comparability with the other economies in the Member States of the European Union. It will therefore really be necessary here to make a great deal of effort to obtain funds from the European Union funds and to make use of all the outcomes offered by the European Union market itself. Last but not least, new challenges are emerging by widening the borders of the European Union itself. So it is an extremely demanding principle of action and here the real government will have to be made up of quality personnel. In my opinion, it will be difficult to form an extremely successful government only from the representatives of the right, so that if this government wants to carry out an extremely important task, it will also have to contain such human resources solutions, which will also have to be able to reflect the interests of the left and also the widest possible circle of people and of course the economy. Whether this works or not, it will probably be clear in a short time. Of course, this procedure starts today when we vote on whether the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia will receive adequate support and, of course, broad enough to carry out this task. I hope, as I said, that dialogue will be possible in particular in addressing all the key problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Pavel Gantar, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished mandate-holder! Like most others, I would like to point out that the electorate and the electorate have said that it is perfectly normal for the party with a relative majority and its president to form a new coalition to come up with confirmation of the mandate holder, and we can certainly count on this coalition to be reached and this will also happen, which is right, and it is right that this will happen as soon as possible. But just so I could say this banality, I didn't answer. I stopped by because, in a very interesting speech, the candidate mentioned a number of things, including the reorganisation of public administration, ministries, the new functioning of the government. It's all right and legitimate. Each government should also organise, according to its preferences, at least to a certain extent an administrative and other structure; that is what we did when the LDS and the rest of the government were, and it is right for the new government or the new Prime Minister to do so, if he thinks so. However, since we have some experience because it is good for you to hear this experience, I would like to tell you, Mr candidate, that when you are setting up ministries, you have forgotten to mention that one ministry is being abolished. I would like to tell you that the abolition of the Ministry of Information Society is a mistake, that it is more than a mistake, that it is even a mistake. Mistake because you actually missed the reasons and the main core of this ministry's operation. You have transferred the area of electronic communications and mail to the Ministry of the Economy, leaving the area of applications in the information society misplaced; you do not know where it will go; perhaps any of this will remain, perhaps not. Maybe it will go, as the newspapers say, to the new Ministry of Higher Education and Science, perhaps to the public administration. Electronic commerce and applications in the information society are, not only based on your speech, but also from people, because I have closely monitored this, too narrowly understood as the question of the so-called e-government. Of course that's not true. I would like to point out that the main advantage of this ministry, in which we can also assess my work, in one way or another, more or less successfully - we have talked about this, all of these matters could be on the table, arguments for and against - but the main advantage of this ministry, colleagues and colleagues, is that it did something that we did only later, when we set up this ministry, really realized: it is the integration of the field of information infrastructure, electronic communications, including mail, with applications, content and services of the so-called information society. This was the great advantage that enabled us to achieve, say, an increase in Internet penetration in households from poor 20% in 2000 to 38% already in 2003 and today 45%, probably close to 50% [[only the most general indicator]] . Without that, it wouldn't be possible to do it, very simply put. And another thing to mention. Today, developments are taking place in this area in the direction of convergence, networks, infrastructure, services, content on different platforms. In all countries, the type of cases, they try to combine it in one way or another. We're going to the disunity. That's exactly what a big mistake is. This mistake, Mr. President-in-Office candidate, will be repaid to you. I will, of course, be able to observe it from more or less comfortable opposition benches, but you will have to control it when we do. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Who's gonna deal with security on the Internet? [[...]] The Internet is a powerful business tool today. If security goes down, business goes down. It's not a story anymore. These are regulatory stories. A number of regulations are being drawn up on this. Some are already being adopted in the European Union and with us. Where are you taking this? How does this relate to electronic communications? Will you go to some difficult interdepartmental coordination? This area is short and little in need of substantive jurisdiction. And they also know this in an ever-increasing number of countries, especially the new EU member states, but also, of course, older ones. Therefore, I would like to remind you not to do this twice, that you will not, in fact, contribute to its inefficiency when you try to increase the efficiency of the government, so that you do not face the unintended and unwelcome consequences of a poorly thought-out action. The people who wrote this, of course, I know them, so I know what they're thinking, so I know what the motives are. But this goes beyond my debate. At the same time, I would like to mention that a number of your initiatives here are very good, very interesting. And I must say, if my colleague Marko Pavlich, who is not here at the moment, mentioned that he knows you too well, then I would say that I know more Janš Johns in the same person, and that some of these Johns Janš would probably elect in almost every situation, but some of them never. I am interested in transformations, their own most observed by others, but I am also interested in transformations of other people. How they view things today, how they looked yesterday, and how they might look tomorrow. I would say that I was surprised by this image of a changed rhetoric and politics during the time just before the elections and during the elections and after the elections, with what was happening during a period that was traumatic for me and in fact meant my decision to continue in politics. These are matters related to two extraordinary meetings. When you're calm, you're nothing to me, you're accusing me of some area, some businesses, operators, corruption and other behavior, when you've done them harm, economic damage. When I warned you that talking about security in electronic communications is not a conversation in mind. This transformation, if it happened in fact, but as you would say [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] "I'll be watching you," if it really happened, I'll say hello and forget about those things. [[...]] But if it didn't happen, of course I'll see different scenarios. But I hope it happened because it's happened more than once. That's all I'd say. As I have already mentioned, I will welcome a lot of things, and I am looking forward to being able to participate as an opposition Member, but at the same time, not now, I am taking this meeting more than a solemn matter, and serious things will come later, but I would like more details, including numbers, to be presented by the government. It is true that the goal is quality of life and sustainable development. But quality of life and sustainable development are measurable. If we don't have any numbers, if we don't know what kind of growth you're looking for, what will be your employment, where will we measure you, where are the milestones, where is the so-called "bankmarking", we expect these numbers. But next time, a respected candidate, when you present the government, I expect them, because otherwise we will, and the people will not be able to keep their word. And keeping your word in politics means a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Dr. Beast has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Mr President of the National Assembly, a respected candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, a colleague and a colleague. Allow me to join the debate a little more briefly on this or, and this today should also be a basic topic, whether the proposed candidate is suitable, qualified, competent to manage such an important branch of power as the executive branch of the Authority. Unfortunately, in some debates we return to some non-productive topics and thus avoid the basic issue or the basic topic. I would like to justify my vote as a candidate to support Mr Janez Janša for several reasons. Last but not least because he received a mandate on 3 October this year or some kind of justification for this function, but not just him personally, but also the party that wins this year's elections. It is true that the party led by the Slovenian Democratic Party has come to the political scene in recent years, or at least in recent months and weeks has somehow been recast, a strong party, which has also promised the voters much, and a party that, with a strong staff, also with a great programme presented before the elections, has convinced voters and has in some way brought the political initiative into the Slovenian political space. It is true that the Slovenian Democratic Party has, in recent years, settled in Slovenia and also in the European political space, also received support from European political factors and managed to create some compatibility between the European government this year, and I also expect the Slovenian future government and at the same time the compatibility between the majority in the Slovenian legislative body and also in the European legislative body. And that's good for Slovenia. That's very good when both branches are compatible when they sing the same height. It is also true that in recent years the Slovenian Democratic Party has also symbolically expressed its appearance, name, programme and so on. But it is a fact that the Slovenian electoral body usually very personalises elections, including client programs. I do not hide that the last months, the last weeks, and above all the last days have been in some kind of struggle for the mandate and that the Slovenian electoral body has recognized in the person of Janez Janša the future prime minister or the President of the Slovenian government. Therefore, it would be right to say a word about his virtues or virtues. I mean, this is what others have already stressed, that it is a work, dead and responsible policy, a policy with experience. There are few politicians who will have to manage and guide all the sectoral policies that, as Prime Minister of the Government, will have to be managed and managed in the future. But there is another virtue, virtue, which has not so far graced Slovenian politics. This is truthfulness and credibility. A man who thinks what he says and what he says he does is rather rare than a rule in Slovenian politics. I think that not only rhetoric, but also such a political stance in the future in Slovenia must be enforced. That is why I am sure that today would not give the candidate for Prime Minister proposed by the President of the State the opportunity to miss a great deal of opportunity and be a kind of precedent. Let me also take a few words and take a look at some of the comments from the debate. At times, colleagues on my right were very pleased to stress how good it is for democracy if governments or executive branches of government are made up of large coalitions, that it is right to lead to greater stability and so on. They have now come to a different conclusion, stressing that single governments, ideologically united governments, are not suitable for large coalitions. The fact is that the great coalitions of children of the proportional electoral system, the electoral system that you have practically poisoned, are the former majority in the Slovenian political space, and the first exception is that they are formed on the basis of such an electoral system that we have, uniform, let's say, an ideological government. It was also obvious that the current coalition agreement, which is being prepared and which you have obviously already read, is significantly different from the pre-election programmes. This is also a kind of consequence of the electoral system we have. If we had the electoral system that we have proposed in our political option and the party, the mandate-holder would have taken part in an electoral programme before the elections, including a government electoral team, and the voter would have voted precisely for a concrete programme and for a concrete team, and then no audits would have to be carried out subsequently when major coalitions or coalitions of different parties are formed within a political seminal. Now this is the case and it will not be possible to judge the success of the current government team only by pre-election promises, because the legality of the electoral and political system forces us into a kind of revision. That's a fact. It is also true that a mandate-holder, if he reigns in the coming years and in four years we will re-enter the political market, will have to seek some compromise between the pre-election promises and the coalition agreement, which also forms part of some pre-election, pre-government promises. And one more thing; I don't think today is the time to measure the muscles about who's right, how some ministry has done in the past. Today should be the purpose, the discussion of the future, the competence of the candidate for Prime Minister and less about how some ministers have done or done bad or good in the past term. Of course, it would also be expected that colleagues on the other hand will not continue to undermine the electoral or government programme, which still has the status of the draft. Therefore, I ask that we talk more about the topics on the agenda and give the opportunity to have a new political option, which, in the political market elections, has earned this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Dr. Beast. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Even before the President of the State, Dr Janez Drnovšek, officially proposed Janez Janša as a mandate holder, the candidate had already held the first informal round of talks with all the Presidents of the parliamentary parties. As a potential and highly desirable partner in the new government, Janez Janša also saw the United List of Social Democrats. Our President, Borut Pahor, has met informally several times, and we have also been invited to formal talks, but the party has not decided to join the coalition after several thorough consultations. In the 1992/1996 term, we were even together for a while in the Drnovškova government, but the coalition first withdrew from the SDS in 1994 and the United List of Social Democrats in 1996. It is interesting that prejudice to the united list softens, making us an acceptable partner also for, up to, recent political competitions and sharp opponents. Janez Janša's invitation to the United List of Social Democrats to join the government coalition surprised many. On the other hand, this has stimulated a very broad and thorough debate, which I think can only be useful. We had different opinions in the parliamentary group. I also now have no prejudice to join the government, because I think that this would be useful for the country, and unfortunately for the party this would have more negative than positive consequences. The parties have quite similar views on economic and social policy support. There are very large differences on some ideological topics and in the field of human rights. Nevertheless, the participation of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the United List of Social Democrats in the government could be useful, as they would undoubtedly close a number of issues with others, which have been burdening Slovenia for some time or separating our public. However, the differences in the party are too great to begin a serious negotiation for entry into the government. However, the United List of Social Democrats will be a constructive opposition party and will cooperate with the Slovenian Democratic Party and the ruling coalition wherever we assess that this is useful for the country and its citizens. According to Janez Janša in the SDS, the decision of the United List of Social Democrats that she is not prepared to participate in the coalition, nor to start substantive discussions on this, respect, but also regret. I believe that was honest. Following an old parliamentary tradition, the government, or coalition, will be able to prepare thoroughly in hundreds of days of peace and start its work peacefully. However, I must express my regret that the informal coalition did not take advantage of the opportunity and supported Master Majdo Potrat, Vice-President of the National Assembly, as proposed in the United List of Social Democrats. Today's performance was good enough for me not to vote against his election. However, there were some points in his performance with which he could argue, but I think that this will be enough opportunities for the future as well. I can agree with Mr Janša when he assessed our past history and said that the path to reconciliation is longer and that it is not possible to achieve it overnight and that this past will not be a fatal obstacle to our future and that we will all, in the name of the common future, avoid the conduct that threatens reconciliation. However, I do not agree with the equation drawn by colleague Janez Janš during the U.S. Civil War and the National Liberation War. Indeed, in the so-called Ljubljana province we had elements of the classic brotherly war, but it is clear to us that the main goal was to liberate our country and win a broad international anti-fascist coalition, whose equivalent component was also the national liberation struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! As we are discussing today the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, I think we have three important starting points on which we will be able to make decisions today. The first important starting point is the election results on October 3rd, which stated the will of voters and voters. And from this point of view, as well as on the basis of the talks conducted by the leaders of the parliamentary groups with the President of the country, I also think there is an indisputable proposal for a candidate, Mr Janša, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Even according to the information that exists in the public today, I do not think there is any doubt as to whether there is satisfactory support. Another important starting point that we have before us today is a speech by the candidate for Prime Minister, such as one of the arguments or one of the important arguments of our decision. It seems very important to me to say here, despite the fact that it has already been said today that it has been impossible to link the pre-election programme and today's performance as Prime Minister, I think this is an important fact. And since the Prime Minister is also the President at this moment the most important parliamentary party, because if we do not take this as a fact, we could also take this performance as a very accompanying fact in terms of the coalition treaty as it will be created. However, I think today's address is an extremely important fact in my decision to support the proposed candidate. Of course, today it would be very difficult to reconcile with the content of the text that we have received and the content of the speech that the candidate for Prime Minister has also heard before us. However, I would like to draw attention to one fact or to some facts. The first fact I would like to point out is that I think it is very positive that the candidate for president has correctly identified the attitude towards past mandates and that it has always been possible to conclude that important steps have been taken in previous mandates. That seems to me to be an extremely important fact. At the same time, I think it is extremely important that he draws attention to some of the areas of which he has already discussed in the previous mandate and for which it will be a priority - at least by his own assessment - I have removed some of the areas from his office as Prime Minister if elected. And this is where I'd like to point out the area of health. I am pleased that, in his opening remarks, he has used the text to make it necessary for a reform to ensure a stable healthcare system in this area. This would also be in the context of one other part in this text, which speaks of the need to define a new concept of solidarity in society. I think that health reform has identified a number of open health issues, but at the same time it has highlighted the area of solidarity very important. Here in the coming days, at the hearings of individual ministers candidates, the opportunity will be to see whether this is a link between the reform of the health system and the new concept of solidarity in society. Here I am pleased that the Lisbon Strategy and sustainable development, which is the basis for the development of Slovenian society, have been exposed, although I am missing many instruments and concrete criteria and indicators, in what way this will be achieved. Here, too, the Lisbon Strategy, which will certainly be possible, Mr candidate, by your ministers, to hear much more about this, given that the assessments of the Lisbon Strategy, not least in the European Council, have shown that the pace is slowed and it will be very interesting here how you will represent these instruments. Today there was a lot of talk about wanting to build a knowledge-based society. Nice to meet you. Given that, in the past mandate, I have taken a great deal of action on this subject and have advocated sustainable development and an opportunity for an individual and an emphasis on lifelong learning. That is why I would like to join all those who, in the debate today, have indicated the integrity of the approach to the education process and to be vigilant when you propose to amend the law on government and to divide such an important and very sensitive area. Your assessment of the importance and role of the Kyoto Protocol is very interesting. Here it will be very important to hear how we will build our transport policy forward, which you are only touching in our programme or your program and your speech. One and the other are very closely linked and there are no answers in the written document. Let it be sufficient within your presentation address and content. The third important starting point, on which decision will be taken today, is also your personality, which I think is extremely important, because as Prime Minister, I would like you to demonstrate the ability to connect. It has already been said that there have been several transformations in your life course. One, at least as far as I could see, was your multiple performance at the end of the previous term, where there were many negatives and significantly fewer reconciliation initiatives, for cooperation. Today, too, it has been said that we want to change the way we work. My approach has always been that way of connecting. I would like to see that the change in work means that you will take into account what you have written down so that you will advocate for the widest possible participation of all who can contribute to the well-being of Slovenia. Of course, the fact that it speaks of the distribution of functions in individual commissions and committees, and I will limit myself to the European Union Affairs Committee alone, speaks somewhat differently. I would not like to announce in this committee, at least I myself in this committee, that we have taken decisions by consensus both of the opposition and of the coalition, that we have announced the way of voting and only the division of functions in this committee, where you propose both the Presidency and the two vice-presidents of those who explicitly support you at this time. That would be a bad approach, which also gives me the idea that you will, of course, act in sync with what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša, distinguished colleague and colleague! I was wondering if I should sign up for the debate or quit. A lot of what I wanted to say was heard here today. However, I would like to say something that has brought me here today to sit here with my colleagues Pukšič and Miroslav Luci. I say this because we all come from the 8th constituency, from the 9th, 10th and 11th constituencies, from the Slovenian Gorica, the Drava Field, the Ptujsko Polje, Ptujje and Haloz. These are places that have been forgotten in the past. And it's no coincidence that the electorate and the electorate decided that way. That's why we're here today because they trusted us. And I also trust the candidate for president, Mr Janez Janša, who convinced me with today's speech. We've been working together for many years. I've heard a lot from him. Today my conviction is perfect, so I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his opening remarks, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, he renewed his desire and willingness to build Slovenia's policy on the greatest possible cooperation, including the involvement of the opposition, civil society and so on. I would like to believe that this is true, but I would like to point out that I am encouraged to say that I am not sure that this is honestly meant until the end of this debate by fellow Members and Members of his party. The beginning of the definition of a speech for unity is that for plebiscite, for independent and independent Slovenia, for the defence of Slovenia against the attack of the Yugoslav army and similarly due only to Demos, there is no objective starting point. At that time, we had this view of all parliamentary parties. A common agreement was reached, signed by the presidents and the leaders of all parliamentary parties in 1990, and we all want to say that the act of independence is the act of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I would ask, in this way, that we understand at least a single recent history. If, at the same time, colleagues and colleagues are talking about the new milestone, the new quality, the historical significance, the fact that we are barely entering the path of a serious policy, that we have taken the path of the normality of the country, that democratic deficit has so far been in place and so on, then I am afraid of such historicity because I think it can have the wrong call. I stress the importance of policy change and believe that there will be new methods, new quality, new ideas. Just to say that this is so historicly higher than the past, I personally doubt it. And because of trying to get anyone who doesn't support the mandate holder to deny that we're doing this because of prejudice, I have to say that what I just said is saying the opposite. There have been no prejudices on our side, on the side, Mr Janša, yours and your customers have so far been without need for prejudice because you did not want to acknowledge the objective situation as they were. That is why I want us to try to find ourselves really on objective facts, on concrete programmes, on the possibilities of mutual cooperation, and that in this way even those differences that exist would attempt to go beyond. Nothing helps if we push them under the rug, which you have repeatedly said is bad, and it is really bad. It has to be said that there are, see if we can overcome them, try to find common solutions, say they are not, because someone doesn't like them, or would not like to show them in a cute performance, but probably doesn't make sense. And to conclude. Mr. Beast! I give the mandate or future candidate, and I expect, elected by the President, many qualities for a successful politician and leader. Absolutely. In particular, its work, its persistence and consistency for the exercise of the interests and objectives of the individual and its party. But talking about him always saying what he meant, and thinking what he was saying, of course, could be true for that moment. However, if we compare the performances we have been following in the last term, if we follow the pre-election performances and performances today, then of course there is a certain margin that can be objective, because the situation is different, but only means that this consistency is not expressed to the extent that you say it. I believe that the picture of Mr Janez Janša is the one that now appears after the success of the elections, and I would like us to cooperate with such John Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Run. I give my word to Mr. Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u68	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament, candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia! I must say, I was pleasantly surprised by the opening speech of the candidate for a term of office, and I was very happy to have this competive tone, openness to those who thought otherwise, even some of the innovations that I had never known before. I am thinking of the content news, it is said, what was actually a turning point from what I had listened to in previous years to speak Slovenian democracy and before social democracy; almost a perfect turnaround, this is what this is all about. But I was missing something. In fact, I wanted something to be said about places that do not belong in the Slovenian countryside, in this idiocy and culture, in order to touch even a little of the part of the population that lives in post-industrial times and industrial areas. So, in the places where I come from. Of course, there are not only flowers and jumping rabbits, but also something else. There are fewer good people and more humble people there, but we're a little different. I have heard many times about caring for different social layers, something has also been pointed out through the story of pensioners and health care, but a considerable part of Slovenia has not actually been mentioned in some way. Now I'm going to the other one, which I'm actually more concerned about as the new Member of Parliament. I've heard here that most of the acts are valid and count. However, since the third wine run, they have not been the same as we have heard before, but should be taken into account by the interlocutors, to take into account opinions or suggestions. Nice words that the actions did not back up. So I was born with quite a few concerns, which today are more than there were yesterday, when I also read the proposals that we were supposed to make in these days. I hope that it will prove that I am wrong and that the truth is as it was told in the next speech. In this way, my decision will be in principle and in accordance with the dictates of the law on Members, deliberate, as well as heartfelt, and will take into account the will of those voters who have elected me as a Member of the National Assembly. The candidate for mandate, Mr Janez Janša, will certainly be elected today, which is why Janez Janša and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are happy, as our people say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Rupar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Janez Janša, colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be as short as I can. Those who say that it is a surprise if President John Janša, in the introduction of this assembly and the introduction to the government as his associates, invited all the parties, those who say that John Janša is a completely different person than he once was, even those girls who say that today he is laughing more enticingly and more from the heart than he once was, that John Janša you did not know well. I tell you from my experience that the man proposed by the President of the country as a candidate for the composition of the government has never been different, has never been more difficult, is never more contentious and never more kind than he is now. Only in the light of an interlocutor, a fellow human had to be sought in a positive light as an interlocutor of good thoughts and desires. If you are saying that there are enough votes today, then let me tell you that this is a very bad comfort to those who will vote against it. You still don't trust the one who won't give him a voice, and you haven't given him the passport that you claim you'd give him in the best and most friendly light. I say this from simple experience, because many speakers before me today have not found a positive opinion or positive note in order to approach a positive vote." Many have assessed the differences between President John Janša and him, in contrast to the mandate holder who will never tell the opponent, but you have these and these mistakes, and he will try to find positive things in him, even though he will find few, he will build his future and dialogue on these positive things. Also to political parties and to all people who take them or who come into their circle. I am very grateful to him myself, and this gratitude, Mr Janez Janša, is publicly expressed today. There were times when it was bad and, unlike some who had experienced the same fate in this room, I can say and also thank you for all the support that ultimately led us to sit here together today. Unlike the many who ordered me to do so days ago in New Town, in Kranj, once friends of customers who made up the government so far remain alone. No one has supported them, even vice versa, the criticisms that fly from former colleagues today may be worse than the criticisms of any enemy, the enemy. And in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, you did not know Comrade Janez Janša. The one who will need support when he's on the ground will surely find it with him. Slovenia is not on the ground, it is a fact. The criticisms that were directed against governments during the electoral period and at the end or throughout the previous term were not malicious criticism. The proposals made to improve the situation in Slovenia were also positive, and the question is why none of the outgoing governments accepted them as such. Therefore, in this parable, you are all present in this National Assembly, who still hesitates to vote in favour of President Janez Janš today, please and I warn you not to hesitate and to do so in the spirit of what you and I would like to do. John Janša is never expelled, but he has been expelled many times. If today some of you who are leaving for the opposition are saying that you want to cooperate with him, that you do not want to be excluded, then please do not rule out with a negative vote against him just today, President Janez Janša. Dear President, I promise you all the support of my colleagues and colleagues, even though it will be necessary to work day and night, days and days only to show that criticism is already on the first day, the first hour against you and against the government that is not actually justified. So that this unwarranted criticism will bring positive development to all the Slovenian people and this promise and this commitment will probably apply also on behalf of all those who have entrusted their votes to the coalition parties this year, and so on my behalf much happiness, much success and all the help of all and I ask for the help of all those who want Slovenia to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Honorable president, colleagues, colleagues. The President of the State proposed a man who, after 3 October, is almost impossible to identify. He tries to be complacent on all sides, also open to dialogue with people he described and attributed to them in September, responsibility for customerism, great corruption and all kinds of bias. It is no longer subject to minority rights of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, nor is it a right, as it says, of non-automatic nationalities. These latter were recently treated in good work as opponents of Slovenia's independence as speculators, as recalculators. Everyone is also happy to be assured, I quote "freedom to confess and practice religious life." John Janša is as we know him. After October 3rd, it's okay, I'll say, some sort of Slovenian "dalelama". It promises anything that, hand to heart, cannot prohibit, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and which is the basis for living in a common Europe. And yet we can't be surprised at how nice and right this is. So that there will be no mistake, I am clearly not opposed to this puzzling tone and style. I don't mind when he and his colleagues say otherwise, they're evaluating the last 12 years or if you want 15 years and all those achievements. It seems good to me, and there may be some basis for us to be able to talk without serious blood about the things that are ahead of us and that will be ahead of us in the future. But it is only fair to say here that if you had performed this way in the last four years and in the electoral campaign, you would not be a winner today and today you would not have been a mandate holder for the composition of a new government. But that's a problem he's going to solve with his constituents and voters. What is the question is, do we really have a whole new man ahead of us; a man who is willing to really forget everything, to leave, I will say, old and radical assessments and even fights. I don't think so, because it's really being told that they are more important than the past and that they are more important than ideological issues of development, economy and so on. I don't know if that's what he's saying because in front of his new friends, it's hard to brag about things that he didn't do so far back. He was a good brigadier and, as I hear, a multiple punch; he was, as they say, the best leader of these hikes along the ways of Avno; he was a strict advocate of the concept of human defence and social self-protection; he had great problems and others who worked with him. He may be embarrassed to talk about it, but it doesn't even matter. The question is what does this language mean, but the past and the questions of ideology are not the first to be put to the test. The background, of course, says that all things did not really start until 3 October. We do not actually meet these at the end of ideology and the end of history and the beginning of the golden age for the first time; even in the world it is known, and at least his colleague is certainly known for the thesis or Francis Fukuyama of the late 1990s. But whoever actually says that, and in this way erases those things that are not, after all, important, underestimates what is called roots, and what is called tradition, and what is also called problems that are embedded in a community. From this point of view, I conclude that this thesis that the normal situation in Slovenia was established only with the October elections contains serious exclusiveism. This exclusiveism is dangerous, reveals old Janša and brings us a large bouquet of flowers and a lot of cellophane. I would also like to be wrong, like my colleague Gulič; but the language in politics is the foundation of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Candidate! I listened with interest and attention to your performance today. Of course, first of all, I congratulate you on this nomination, which is logical in some way, even in the light of the outcome of the elections, given that the SDS is a relative winner of these elections, indisputably, and I believe that the President of the Republic will carefully weigh whom, even in terms of client arithmetic, he will entrust this mandate to. When I listened to your speech - you were talking about strategic priorities and somehow you connected this to the change in the government law or on the proposal - I was thinking about these priorities that you set yourself. I was uncomfortably surprised to find that there are some changes that are internal but quite inconsistent, inconsistent. Thus, for example, it is difficult to understand why you are proposing to move to the Ministry of the Economy for energy, although this is a distinct infrastructure activity that has less impact on the competitive capacity of the economy and, on the other hand, you are expelling technology from the Ministry of the Economy and you are working in the opposite direction, as we would expect. I expect, at least I would like the Ministry of Economy to develop in the direction of the Ministry of Competitiveness. And I must say, at this point, I found this decision entirely illogical and difficult to understand. The second such thing is, of course, the vaccination of the Ministry of Information Society; in principle, part of the activity moves back to the Ministry of the Economy; another part is lost throughout the state administration. And I think, in particular from this point of view, that information and communication technologies are extremely important, as you yourself have stressed in some of your previous performances, which I have listened to very carefully, I find this decision quite illogical. I was also quite concerned about the increase in the number of ministries. One of your starting points was the rationalisation of the state administration. And at least at this point, I greeted it with great enthusiasm. We all agree that more needs to be done at this point, but - however we turn - we will now have one additional ministry more. In any case, the Prime Minister will now, on your proposal, have the opportunity to appoint an unlimited number of state secretaries in the office of the Prime Minister, which is, of course, once again a potential new army of new officials. In any case, ministers without a staff will also have the opportunity to appoint state secretaries, which is again exactly the opposite of what the aim of rationalising the state administration is. I'm pretty worried about that. It seems to me that when you presented your performance to us, it was the title of this material of yours "There are opportunities before us that we have never had before." It is the right of each candidate, the future mandate-holder, to, of course, change the structure of the government. As he estimates, it will work best. You had a great opportunity here. In football jargon, I would say that at the beginning of the game you are shooting a goal, but from this beautiful opportunity you sent the ball high under the clouds and, of course, you did not take advantage of it at the very beginning, but I am afraid that proposals are going in the opposite direction: far from contributing to the competitiveness of Slovenia, far from rationalising the state administration. Since I don't want to be a proposal and I don't think it's quite right at this stage to address your speech in a comprehensive manner, of course I accept that it has been a limited time and you haven't succeeded and you haven't even been able to touch all the details, but I would like to draw your attention to just one inconsistencies, which I think is important from the point of view of our citizens as well. In your speech, you have made it clear that you are advocating that the richer or capital owners will pay more for the production of public goods. We support this, and we agree with that, and we must not forget that taxes are exactly one of the fundamental resources that also ensure the production of public goods. In a document that you have somehow given to us in circulation, the coalition contract, in the programming work, you clearly write that the coalition will be committed to the cedual taxation of capital revenues, which, of course, include dividends, interest, capital gains, immovable, movable property - in short, it is something else entirely. If you choose to pay more for capital gains, it is, of course, simple enough to include these capital gains in the income base and at higher thresholds also pay higher taxes. Cedular taxation is something completely different and this is a matter of extreme inconsistencies, but I do not dare here now, nor to suggest what is better: one or the other. However, I would like to draw your attention here to the extreme inconsistencies and ask you here for an answer to explain exactly what you think and what you are doing, because our citizens and citizens also have the right to know exactly what is meant. In short, at this point, as I said, it also seems to me, according to future coalition arithmetic or client mathematics, that the result is quite clear. Of course, I wish you good luck choosing a ministerial team if you're elected. Of course, at this point in time, given the above, I cannot support you in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Of course, in the elections, Slovenians and Slovenians expressed their majority support for the SDS, which the President of the country took into account and expected us to do. I have a lot of problems with this proposal myself, and many reservations, especially fears. Mr Janša, you take over - almost certainly take over - the leadership of the country at a time when it is in very good condition. And your client's electoral program suggests that you may be delaying this situation. Why, do I think so? Your election promises aren't small and they're very hard to come by. You promised to reduce taxes, increase pensions, value of education, boost social security spending, and at the same time not to tell you where to take all of this. At a time when it is necessary to reduce unemployment, raise economic growth, quality of life, and when social security can be so quickly threatened, especially if the public sector in the field of health services is declining, my doubts are justified; even at a time when we are ahead of the introduction of the euro and when every inflation can be very fatal. Of course, demagogy may be part of a pre-choice life and a sober policy must avoid it, because sooner or later he has to lay down accounts or even admit that before the elections he was tactful in order to become in power. But the tax on such a deal, and in this way, the acquired power is paid by the citizens. That promises are twofold and that they can be lifted quickly, as soon as the elections take place, and as soon as they are passed, your speech today, which speaks in a completely different tone and even pre-election promises, sets it in full in a longer time frame or moves it away. The draft coalition treaty, which is vaguely promised, changes the pre-election phrases, neutralises them or even brings solutions that were not at all before the elections; this draft is also moving away from what was said before the elections. And here's my problem, Mr. Janša, I don't believe your faces or, if I'm more precise, I don't believe your two faces. Your former face contained the rhetoric of exclusion, today's integration. You once challenged the constitutionality of the representatives of two minorities in Parliament, that was in the mid-1990s, today you are addressing them. You once, say, Dr. Ruplu, claimed to be some kind of mercenary -- he's a friend today. Once you had no foreign octopus-style thinking - today, it is said, the hunters connect. In short, trust is a prerequisite for my decisions. And what face should I believe now? Because you've had some difficult messages recently. In a speech at the Tribunal of the so-called Civil Initiative, the Assembly of the Republic, 23.6.2004, you spoke of a cultural battle. The Congregation for the Republic may have been co-financed by culture, or in this case the publishing industry has proved to be a profitable activity, but your address was a malicious one, not a cultural one. What did you then say at the expense of the government? [[Quote]] : "The witnesses were trying to fabricate the very roots of Slovenian independence, which were supposed to reach there at the time of the Avnaju Decisions. We were talking about demonizing faith." When and with what did the Liberal Democracy pretend to be independent - when it asked about the lost profits of arms trafficking? When did she demonize faith — when she followed a constitutional judgment and supported the Vatican agreement; when she asked about exemption from church taxes; when she financed church renewals; or when she claimed that the right to an Islamic centre was the same as the right to a Catholic center? You said at the same assembly in June [[Quote]] That "we have excused crimes and even magnified bloody delinquency in recent history." Your terminology was not lenient to the concept of continuity. And in addition to corruption, theft, clientelism, there was a continuity of the fourth "k", the fourth mantra, which was finely reduced into the consciousness of the Slovenians. History has not been interpreted, it is judged by historical science. At the political level, however, the LDS has identified itself as a recent history in its resolution and also to its mistakes. And then, you said, "the current was limiting the area of conversation for direct RTV transmissions to national RTV and still being, because it is still necessary to fight from session to session for these transmissions to happen." The meetings of the National Assembly have been public in the last period, broadcast on the television network, once by computer, but you did not trust the new technologies enough. By abolishing the Ministry of the Information Society, it shows that they do not do so in the future. When we got the transmissions, you took full advantage of them, and your right was because after the "prime team" you liked to shut up or go somewhere else. In one case you really fought for the transfer and in the way of punishing RTV Slovenia, which, as we recall, did not tolerate an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. On the second day, you filed a law on the suspension of television coverage. This is called the political influence on the media, which has always been evident to the other side. "We were witnesses" - I quote a further part of your speech and I will end with this - abuse of the issue of so-called deleted. The managers of the Slovenian State have made a number of important decisions over the past decade without the necessary broad consensus, for example, by issuing decisions on so-called deleted contrary to the referendum will." [[End of quote.]] The Constitutional Decision, which confirmed the direct enforceability of the decision-making process, was simply silenced in that speech. However, I fear how you will end this question, even if it will be opened in Europe. In short, every man deserves a chance and is given to you. The art of governance, which is undoubtedly a policy, may also include the art of mimicry and transformation. Believe it or hope that this transformation will not happen to the detriment of the good state of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u78	President, thank you for your word. I've got two minutes left, and I can't tell you what I want to say, so I'm just gonna moralize a little bit. The old Latins said, "Tempora mutant et nos mutamur i ilis" or "Times change and we change with them." In 1994, I was written here by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek in a letter proposing that we discharge Mr Ivan Janša's ministry. I'm here today because again Dr. Janez Drnovšek tells me to appoint Mr. Ivan Janez Janša as Prime Minister. His work during his independence does not show any appreciation, it is known to everyone that his work is also a great part of us, that we have conquered ourselves, and it is also a great thanks to the people on this side that they had such people inside as Bavcar, Janša and everyone else. Of course, there are clouds above us that need to be resolved. One cloud is that we did not solve the issue of postwar beatings; no one approves that the prisoners were led to the caves and killed and thrown in without the judicial authorities. We should clear that up. But even worse, when the war ended, and we ended the ten-day war, and then we sold guns for big money with the oil profits of our neighbor, that there was no money, and that people, and I'm not telling you, Mr Janša, but those who were here should be answering and cutting off the veil, did not do so. I am grateful that you will be chosen today to have what you have said here before all of us, that you will help with all your efforts, that this veil will be removed and that the National Assembly will once again get a clear picture of who did it legally, who did it not and where did it go. All I need from you is this, in my program, to limit ourselves to the provinces a little bit. This will be one of the hardest stones in your term, and I strongly hope that together we will change it with a change of constitution. But as for what I'm talking about, I'm not talking about your program that much. You know, even if we brought the gold program, I wouldn't support you if I didn't trust you. But what you have done in the past, good and bad, if I draw the line, for a right-wing man is the family life of the sanctuary, is the honesty of the sanctuary, is the world view of the sacraments; but if someone changes it quickly and gives up on it, my trust is lacking. That is why, Mr Ivan Janša, I will not vote for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! I would like to draw attention to one unusual fact that we are actually dealing with history today. Indeed, all the changes that have taken place at the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the existence of the independent Slovenia occurred not directly on the basis of the election outcome, but either because of the changed political circumstances, because of a different coalition or because of the personal decision of the Prime Minister, who has left for another function. This is the first time that, on the basis of the direct electoral decision of the people, we love the new prime minister, the new Prime Minister, and then the government as a whole for the entire mandate. This is a valuable experience for Slovenia, very important, especially in the light of what happened during the time of the elections, and this has also been followed up in some debates today. For when fear has been tried again and again, if it comes to power of the SDS, and if Commissioner Janez Janša is gone, there will be no more pensions, there will be no more social state, in short everything will go wrong. And for 12 years this logic actually worked. For 12 years, the logic that shines in the right light only when we look at it in the framework of the symbolism that has been discussed today is the symbolism of the Berlin wall. Because from this distance of time, because we all know, physically there is no longer - but what was its essence? His essence was fear. Fear, obsessed with untruths, prejudices, and that's exactly what we can talk about right now. For fear has always been tried again, some to stigmatize, and to give the impression that power is reserved in advance always for one and the same. And it is not true, as it has proved in these elections, and as we will today, I am sure, we have also confirmed by voting for the mandate holder, of course, that the people always have the possibility that when they recognize that some authority has become their own purpose, that it has succeeded, that it has chosen a different power and that this is the very essence of democracy. And that, just that and nothing else has happened in the last elections, and Slovenia has become actually a normal country, or it will become the moment when we elect a mandate-holder first and then a new government that will be in line with the clear message expressed by the Slovenian people in the elections with the election results. To conclude, let me express my great joy that I can, by my vote for Mr Janez Janša, who I know for 15 years and I know that he is an excellent organiser and is committed to the fundamental values of Slovenian independence and our country as a whole, so that I can in some way help him to disappear at this last symbolic level the last trace of the Berlin wall in this part of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Unfortunately, some Members mentioned at the end of the list of discussers cannot get the floor because the time for discussion has run out for their Group of Members. There are no other applicants, so I give the floor to the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to submit his explanations or additions to the basic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. I would like to use it to briefly answer some of the questions raised. Unfortunately, I must first say that, even in these debates, especially those who, although the coalition negotiations have not yet been concluded, have not yet begun, and have continued to turn themselves into opposition, have responded to some of the initiatives that have been given. For example, I would like to know how those who, at the request of the opposition in the previous term, may also propose up to a third of the experts to the supervisory councils of public enterprises, have refused to respond to this initiative today, whether it is still unacceptable politicisation. I think that such answers would be useful at the very beginning of the formation of a government, so that we can set a course and see if we can set any standards that we have already taken, now that we have more real power, we can actually set. I can't say anything about this debate that hasn't started today, but it's taking some time, everything since the elections, about how I should suddenly change myself, and how the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I'm leading, and how everything else is, how the voters have been deceived by it. Unlike what I read and heard today, those who actually elected us, who gave us a relative majority in these elections, stop on the road and say that they elected us because we were consistent, because we did what we said, because we did not make one promise, did the other, and because we kept that word. That's what those who voted us say, and those were the majority. So all these debates about change, about transformation, about how someone has changed, I also advise those who have lost the elections to do them on their own. I think that this would be healthy for Slovenian democracy and that it would probably be necessary after the elections to pay more attention to these debates, because otherwise someone will come to the conclusion that voters have made a mistake, even though we know that voters are always right. I must say that, especially when it came to the presentations of the parliamentary groups, where things were formulated in the form of views of parliamentary parties who received voter confidence in these elections, I listened carefully to these comments. In the presentations of the parliamentary groups, I have not seen any significant opposition to the guidelines I have presented here as a candidate for Prime Minister. There have been some questions that I think are valid, to which we need to answer, especially given that some of the questions concern the procedures proposed at this meeting already, the laws that we have proposed at this time - after a reduced procedure, because there is no other procedure. In a way, it seems a little unfair to me that the one who, because of the trust he received from the electorate, is now in a position to form an executive power, to form an executive authority, is bound to some procedural issues, although we all know that there are no other solutions here. The new Rules of Procedure do not allow the Government, which has not yet proposed legislation following an urgent procedure and the urgency procedure would, of course, be correct in the event of a change in the Government Act. It would be one of those things provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but the government is not yet because we are just making it up, and the only procedure to be taken into account is the reduced procedure. I must say that, in the previous mandate, it has been used for substantial changes, despite the absence of such urgent circumstances as now that we simply have no other choice available, so here I am asking for understanding. I have also stressed this in these discussions that we have had before this meeting; it is easy to save time for the government and the state, after the government has already been formed, not to deal with how to change the government law, and two months after the government is formed, we are sitting here for two days again, discussing changes to the law, and how those cities that are eventually reorganised are being filled. Most governments in the European Union, in view of most constitutional arrangements in the European Union, are such that they do not know government laws. Each government is given the opportunity to organise itself in the same way as it thinks it is best to organise the summit of executive power in order to make it as effective as possible. Such a government election process has also been discussed by some colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, as we do, most countries of the European Union do not know: it is a proposal, it is too complicated, it is twice practically voted on the same thing, and I do not think that we really have enough time to spend on it, because this is also measured in the money of what has been done, and what has not been done at the time of the decision itself. I regret that the constitutional changes that we have made as the opposition, which the government has given us, have not made a significant difference, have not gone through because in the end the will of those who have driven this machine has run out. Well, anyway, this time, which is an intermediate time, has to be used as best you can. I propose that you be aware of this procedure, by which we want the government or the government law through a procedure that goes through the national assembly, to be able to form an effective government; as we imagine that we will assume responsibility for this, those who do not assume these responsibilities can, of course, and as Members, have every right not only to express their opinion but also to decide on this constitutional system. However, there is a difference and this difference is also known to those who have been in government for 12 years and have practically always proposed changes to the government law at the beginning of the mandate, and I think that there are twice as many similar solutions that are now in this law and that are suddenly bad. I would not be making a great deal of science out of this, from how the departments are organised, it may be something that depends, but it is not a key strategic thing, and it is in some way necessary to leave it to the one who takes responsibility for it. We do not stop any activity; we give greater emphasis to some; we also adapt some to the experience we have seen in the past mandate and to the experience others have. Neither Ireland nor Finland, which the current government has set as an example, have the Ministry of Information Society, and this can be organised as it has now been, and this can be organised differently. We understand the year 2000 and those times, which you have managed in these few days, since it has been public, to read the report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, which the European Commission discussed earlier this month, you will find there in these chapters a very realistic justification, a self-critical justification why everything about development was expected in 2000 from this very area. At the end of the 1990s, the time was the so-called "business.com", "dot.com", which was inflated, at some point in the stock market, reached 10- or 100-billion-dollar values, when it was suddenly expected that this technology would lead to economic development in a shorter time than possible. Partly on this basis, the Lisbon Strategy was also written on this illusion. That didn't come true. Most of these companies have collapsed. The most developed countries, especially the United States and partly Europe, have been in a relative crisis for some time. This account was also ignored by traditional industry, technology, industrial basis for development and top experts moved from those countries to Asia. In this report, the European Commission recognises this and it is time for us to take a little look at some of the illusions that were there. It's an important technology, it's an important activity, but you have to be aware that computers can't do anything about it. [[I'm the first one in this country to start using it, not just for writing texts.]] . It should be borne in mind that computers also need to be made aware of the need for an industrial base. That we were very light-headed when we didn't do enough to make our technical colleges full. Today, 200 or 300 applications from people with economic education, including a master's degree in science, will come to the call for an engineer. Let us therefore have a real relationship with these questions. The organisation of ministries itself can give some emphasis. I have to say, as has already been said, that I know this technology, I know what can be expected of it; I know that it has not been used enough in Slovenia; I know that it was in the mandate behind us that there were a lot of movements, probably because of the establishment of this ministry; but it is very unfair now to say that because we will reorganise slightly differently, but we will give priority, as someone wrote, to the press before the Internet; this is a pure simplification. If you want to look for any emphasis, do not look for them in a different reorganisation of activities that have been carried out so far in the Ministry of Information Society, but in the Ministry of Science, Higher Education and Technology, where synergies are needed, where this needs to be linked to the economy, and where we will not achieve anything only with some goal of achieving the Lisbon target of 3% for research and development, but it is essential how these funds will be used; if this alone revolves around the direction of an institution, we will be very far away from having any concrete benefits from this money. The second bill, which is proposed and which has been criticized in this debate - now just one sentence of the answer, given that you mentioned it, will probably be under the following points - also refers to the failure to carry out something that was launched in the previous mandate. The reform of the state administration, or decisions, pending the adoption of legislation abolishing the current position of State secretaries, took place in the previous mandate. Instead, I don't know the 60 Secretaries of State, they're going to be much smaller now. Their function is different. In fact, either you and I, because some of the opposition have supported this legislation, have introduced the post of Deputy Minister. And that's essential. Now, all you can see here is that someone who is a member today will have or that his status will stand still if he goes to this function, it's a very simplistic view of these things. If respectable colleagues, Members of Parliament and Members are in the way of the privilege they are called the privilege of sending them, then propose a law and reduce it. And then those who leave this post as Secretary of State will not have these privileges. However, if we have jointly introduced a function that is essentially a deputy minister, then it is necessary to allow the one who assumes responsibility for the executive branch to have the widest possible selection of good people. This is probably in the common interest, and I think it will be possible to find a common language here, because this solution, the first phase of which was launched in the previous term, will probably not remain for just one term and it is right to seek a lasting solution. With regard to those who asked for more concrete commitments. I must say that I have been very clear when I said that we want to follow as much as possible in this mandate, not what is on average today, or that our objectives are not what is today the average of the European Union, but what will be the average of the European Union behind us, but that this average will not always remain the same in four years, or at the end of this period, 2010 as outlined by the Lisbon Strategy. These are some very specific objectives, but it is necessary to be realistic and also realistically assess the situation from which we are starting. I would be very happy to say for the last four years that economic growth in Slovenia has been four times greater than economic growth in the countries of the European Union, as was said here by a representative who spoke on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. Although he said that this year's economic growth will be 4% and that this is four times more than it will be in the European Union. First of all, this year's not over, we'll see how it goes. Before we talk about this year, this data needs to be assessed very realistically. We will all be happy if economic growth is as high as possible, but the official data contained in this Wim Kok report is for the Member States of the European Union on the implementation of the 2003 Lisbon Strategy. In 2003, economic growth in the European Union countries, in the enlarged European Union 25 Member States, was 1.5% in the old 15 Member States 1.4%. Last year's economic growth in Slovenia was, unfortunately, only 2.3%. So it wasn't four times the size, but it was four times the size. You can get four times better results if the starting point is bad, and that doesn't mean anything. What's important - and I've tried to be very specific here - is that we're so much better at catching up to the developed. And this goal has been very clearly set: 3% higher economic growth than the average achieved by the European Union. If we say that our goal is to be four times better and, I don't know, the economic growth in the European Union is 0.1%, but we have 0.4% economic growth nowhere, because the backlog is too large, so we also need to be very exact in these comparisons. As regards these appeals under a more specific programme, you can certainly expect a comprehensive presentation of the programme if I receive enough votes today when the government is presented, this is the responsibility of any Prime Minister who proposes to Parliament approval of the government. However, I must say that you do not expect anything like the 2000 Coalition Treaty, where there were, I do not know, 100 pages of the laws listed, of the sub-legislative acts to be adopted within a given mandate. We discussed two months ago whether that would be good or not. I think we've all come to realize that it doesn't make sense that way. If you want, most of what was written at the time has not been realized, and perhaps some things are also very impossible to predict in advance. In particular, given that the trust of voters, which has been distributed differently this time, is likely to replace the key government party in the government for the first time in 12 years, in order to make an audit in order to assess the situation from other salaries. One who evaluates himself is clearly always satisfied, not self-critical. I must say that in the last few weeks, when I speak to some ministers of the current government or of senior government officials from individual sources, they also provide different information and a picture as we have heard it here today. Sometimes it's quite different, and I'm very worried about that. We're going to need to create a clear picture. Here I am counting on the co-operation of all those who have managed the country so far not to hide the data and the actual situation, especially because we must also play a transparent, transparent, transparent role before the European Union, otherwise we will be an unworthy partner. In any case, the goals we set ourselves will be measurable. Not only will voters be able to measure them in four years, or sooner, whenever the next election is held, that the objectives, which will also be comparable to those set by the EU, can be very precisely quantified. The question that seems important to me and which has also been raised - or more critical - was about the expressed position on the euro area. We are in this position that it would be good for Slovenia to respond to proposals coming from the outside and dividing Slovenia into different regions with a proposal of its own.The current policy of such a proposal has not been drawn up; it was created in the opposition or more precisely within the republic's assembly to call the euro area with Slovenia as a whole and centre in Slovenia or Slovenia's capital. It is clear that this is our proposal not to rape anyone; it is clear that this proposal cannot only be implemented if we are in such a hurry; it is clear that others will have to be made to do so. It is clear that some other proposals will be made at this time or in a future period that will not be rejected in such a way as to be seriously discussed - if we have gone seriously to the European Union. In any case, I think that the answers to some of the proposals given in this respect should be formulated. This proposal just appeared when a proposal for a euro area with a centre in Furlania-Julia landscape was drafted by a neighbouring country, including that part of Slovenia, which sometimes belonged to the other side of the Rapal border. In my opinion, such a proposal is not good, it provokes a number of negative associations in Slovenia, it makes no sense to burden ourselves with an idea or to try to realize an idea, or to get involved in a project that would be burdened by various historical mortgages. It is better to find a better option, but it will not be better if we are not active in this, if we decide only what someone else proposes and we ourselves will not have any proposal. I think this is where we need to move forward. Finally, I would like to say that the next opportunity to discuss the programme orientations of the executive or the country as a whole will be, I hope that soon, it will be said when the government is proposed. I hope that this step can be taken as soon as possible, certainly this month. It would be ideal if we could round up this mandate. I think the government was appointed on November 30th in 2000. And if we could do the procedures by 30 November this year, then it would seem perfect. We are prepared to include some of the ideas that have been given today, which will also occur later in these negotiations, either in the coalition treaty. You must take into account that a coalition government is formed, that programmes need to be coordinated. I don't think it makes sense for anyone to pretend that this is not necessary, because all governments have been coalition in Slovenia so far, and this has always happened that things are sometimes slightly different than they were in pre-election programmes, but that this will happen transparently so that we will present all the key objectives in the National Assembly. And that, if necessary, we will also review them transparently after the assessment of the situation has been made. At the end of the day, I thank all those who have expressed your support for this speaker or in your own benches, including the critics. I do not intend to react to these criticisms as we have at times experienced by the ruling position, when any criticism that has been expressed has been referred to as some sort of attack by an internal enemy. I think that the opposition must also critically assess from the very beginning the programmes that are being implemented, the candidates that are being presented, and then also monitor the functioning of the executive branch. We are also all obliged, no matter where we are, to work for the common good, for the good of this country and to take into account proposals that are good, no matter where they come from. If you'll support me today, I promise I'll work this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. President, for the closing speech. We therefore move to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the election of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia shall be secret balloted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, represented by the chairmen and by the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already submitted proposals for members of the panel leading the vote. These are: mag. Andrej Vizjak - SDS, Mr Rudolf Moge - LDS, Mr Aurelio Juri - United List, Mr Martin Mikolič - Nova Slovenija. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[Nobody.]] So we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for Prime Minister will be elected if voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.30 p.m. and will continue until 5.45 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in voting to meet again in room 217. We'll continue the meeting at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the meeting, I announce the outcome of the vote. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 November 2004. 85 ballots were distributed, 85 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 84 votes were valid. 57 Members voted in favour [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] 27 members voted against. [[...]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Janez Janša was elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes cast. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask Mr Janez Janša to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u85	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will act on my conscience and defend myself with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for your trust. As long as this trust applies after the second half of the vote, I promise, as I also wrote in my electoral card, that whenever you think that we can do more together for the good of Slovenia and for the well-being of all its citizens, my door will always be open. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u86	And a message to the National Assembly. Since Mr Janez Janša has been elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, he is no longer able to act as a Member of Parliament, so I will immediately inform the Republican Electoral Commission and ask her to inform the assembly which candidate will replace Mr Janez Janša in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Now, distinguished representatives of the parliamentary groups, as you have already received an invitation, will immediately be an extraordinary short meeting of the college in room 217. Please, all of you, take part in it. And I'm adjourning the session of the National Assembly in 15 minutes. We'll resume the session at 6.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 2. On behalf of the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Council of the European Union, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the The proposal for a decree was submitted to the College of the National Assembly for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. The word is given by the representative of Liberal Democracy, Mr. Squeakl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u88	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we support the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for internal policy. This is also because the 3rd meeting of the College of the National Assembly has just ended, at which an appropriate number of seats belonging to individual parliamentary groups has also been established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, taking into account the outcome of the elections. Accordingly, we will support the establishment of this committee. As is known, the establishment of a committee is necessary in order to allow for the consideration of some of the materials that we are considering at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. The text is by the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u90	I'll be brief. Of course, we support this proposal, the proposal for a decree, by making it clear, of course, in advance, that there will probably be changes then, but we support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. A representative of the national communities, Mr Battelli, has the floor. He's quitting. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Janez Drobnič, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Both I and the Group of Members will support this decree, which means the establishment of a new working body. This allows us to take up a new part of the tasks relating to the legislative sphere of power, so that we can carry out procedures concerning the adoption of laws that have been introduced into the procedure already in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. The next speaker on the list is Mr. Squeakl. He's quitting. Here comes Mr. Juban, LDS. He's quitting. Mr. Slavko Gaber. He's not here. Mr. Paul Gantar. He's quitting. Mr. Ljubo Germich. He's quitting. Mr. Aleš Gulic. He's not here. Mr. Miran Jerich. He's quitting. We just found out they're withdrawing the list of discussers. I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. The hand was raised by Mrs. Majda Shirtz. Since you're on the list, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In adopting this decision, I would like to recall the initiative recently expressed in the circle of Liberal Democracy to further establish a Commission on Human Rights and Freedoms and the Policy of Equal Opportunities in this mandate. The reasons for this proposal are probably well-known, I hope you will also admit that, after all, it is also referred to the experience of other countries that have such or somewhat different committees within their working bodies. Last but not least, Parliament, the European Parliament has such committees, apart from each other, but on activities that support and develop such a problem. I would therefore appeal for further arrangements in the design of working bodies to reclassify those attentions and those activities and those of the Committee of the Regions covered by this Decision in future. In short, in an area of special concern and attention also on the issue of equal opportunities policy and the treatment and exercise of human rights rules relating to political and civil rights and freedoms, and so on, possibly transferred or redirected to the Commission on Human Rights and Freedoms and the policy of equal opportunities. In this case, I understand this working body as a temporary body that can experience future changes within an additional commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. We're continuing to address the point. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. Please check your cards. Are they properly inserted, burning the light? No one raises their hand, so we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] The decree has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. The draft decision was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. The representative of the United List, Mrs Majda Potrat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. In doing so, we are aware that the Committee does not have a complete picture of what areas and tasks will be the subject of its jurisdiction, but is based on what was the situation in the previous mandate. The United List of Social Democrats also advocates that the area of human rights and equal opportunities policy be addressed by the special working body of the National Assembly. However, this is still envisaged within the framework of the Internal Policy Committee and it is also explained in the explanation of the proposal for a decision on appointment that, as the rules of procedure were imposed, the creation of a proposal for a president and a Vice-President of the Committee was the task of the parties to which this function was assigned after the envisaged cut. Here, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United States of Social Democrats, I am pleased that both applicants have taken account of the recommendation that MPs take over the management of working bodies as well. That is why we will unanimously support both proposals, for the president and for the Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr Battelli also took the floor to present the views of the Group. [[He's quitting.]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first of those who have not withdrawn their application is Mr Drobnic, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. The New Slovenia Group proposed that the Internal Policy Committee be chaired by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Ambassador of New Slovenia. She is a graduate lawyer and with experience in those areas that mean and require a sense of law, organization of work and work with people. In the previous term, we have found that this is an extremely important committee or working body dealing with human rights and freedoms and the implementation of the Constitution. That's why it's so much more important for the committee to be run by someone who controls these things. With the support of the candidates for the president and Vice-President, we do not follow this pattern in Novi Slovenija, nor did it lead us to believe that she was a woman. In particular, we are guided by the need for knowledge, experience, skills and commitment to legal principles and honesty. These are the key things. For by sex there is something different by race, and it does not permit them to judge on this basis. Of course, it's so good and good that two people met. Of course that's a good thing. But once again, personally and in the New Slovenia Group, we claim that the other attributes, other things, must be decisive when we decide to lead the working body. That is why, of course, I will support the candidacy, like the New Slovenia Group of Members, for the President. And also the candidacy of Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler as Vice-President of this Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-09-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. Check the cards. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It was 80 votes against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The College of the President of the Assembly has already decided on the number of seats on the committee belonging to the individual Group of Members. The Members' groups also communicated their names. On the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, the following groups have seats: the Slovenian Democratic Party's 5 seats, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia 4 cities, the Joint Group of the United List of Social Democrats 2 cities, the New Slovenia 2 cities, the Slovenian People's Party's Party of Parliament one city, the Slovenian National Party of Parliament, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia one city, the Member of the Hungarian National Community. I therefore conclude this item on the agenda. The meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, which will consider a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act and the State Administration Act, will be held tomorrow at nine o'clock in the Grand Hall on Tomšičeva Street. At the same time, there will also be a meeting of a mandate-holder commission in the large lounge to discuss the completion of the law on Members. Dear Members, I hereby adjourn the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The assembly will continue tomorrow at 1300. Thank you.
