ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 37th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and will not be able to attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič, Dr. Miha Brejc, Franc Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Ivan [[John]] Janša, Miran Jerič, Franz Kangler, mag. Blaž Kavčič, Jože Kavtičnik, Ivan Kevtič, Maksimiljan Lavrinc, Peter Levič, Maria Possonec, Jožef Školč, Jožef Špindler, Villa Trophynik until 12 noon, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Alojz Peterle and Roberto Battelli. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - this is also the last item of the agenda for this session - to consider the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the strategy for spatial development of Slovenia - second phase of the debate. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the government's representatives led by Minister Janez Kopač, who I give him the floor to further explain the motion for a decree. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia is a fundamental strategic State space act. Together with the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, it presents a key document for guiding development in the country and provides guidance for spatial development at local level. The preparation of this new spatial document was necessary. The 18-year-old social plan prepared in the framework of the former Yugoslavia in the framework of the social planning system, which was also smaller with changes, was still in force in 2002, could not be transformed into a modern spatial document that responds to the challenges of space and time. In the framework of the spatial strategy, we set out the concept of sustainable spatial development. Based on the promotion of spatial development based on the comparative advantages of individual areas, the creation of internal cohesion of the country and integration in the international space, it includes spatial development objectives, environmental objectives, conservation of nature and protection of cultural heritage. The spatial strategy newizes the design of a polycentric urban system, made up of a two-stage structured network of centres of national importance, 15 of which are of regional importance, 17. The concept of spatial development of the infrastructure network consists of the interconnection of individual transport subsystems by creating an integrated system that supports migration and enables appropriate links to the international infrastructure network and neighbouring regions. We have a well-preserved landscape with distinctive natural and cultural characteristics, so the aim is to ensure or promote the development of activities in the landscape by maintaining existing and creating new landscape qualities. The Government has invested the spatial strategy in the parliamentary procedure on 15 January of the year following the multi-annual preparation. As part of its consideration, the National Assembly has done important work so far. We have received many benefits from the recommendations made by all Members from all parties in the past. Most of the proposals were also adopted in the home working body and the text was supplemented. So today you have quite a recast of the text, according to the January year text. The additions focused on ensuring equitable development in those border areas, in particular at the border with Italy and the border with Croatia, which will receive different opportunities or pressures upon entry into the European Union. The changes were aimed at ensuring that all areas in Slovenia are adequately and equally linked and linked to the central Slovenian region. The next important amendment is the exclusion of provisions which emphasise that a little more attention is paid to construction outside the settlement areas, and the changes are aimed at slightly more clearly developing measures for the implementation of the spatial strategy. Finally, for the first time in Slovenia, we also set the maritime border in a spatial document, so I am sure that not only because of this, but that is why we are writing the history of this country today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this additional explanation. The proposal for a decree addressed the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as a parent working body. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, will present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 57th meeting, on 27.5.2004 and 2.6.2004, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. Representatives of the Office for Spatial Development, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Transport also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee on Infrastructure in the Environment, the Committee's professional services, the representatives of the legislative and legal services and the representatives of the strategy's proponents were aware that this was an extremely important act, which would in the future substantially shape the fate of the individual, local communities, regions and countries as a whole, so it was all the more important that all the comments sent by the municipalities, comments and proposals made at the public presentation of the opinions organised and carried out by the Committee and the comments and proposals sent by Members at the first reading of the strategy were examined. Reaching the highest possible consensus of all interested parties and preparing a quality document for the National Assembly was indeed a quality document for the Imperial Committee, so it is not unnecessary if I commend the services for hours and days of hard work in harmonising the text. Thus, 66 amendments to the committees adopted by the Committee have been prepared, in which the Committee has taken not only comments from the previous procedures but also most of the amendments proposed by the Members. In the debate on individual amendments, the Committee members focused on the objectives of spatial development and priorities to achieve these objectives, especially the polycentric urban system and regional spatial development, where they discussed the role of individual cities and their involvement in the urban system. Cities identified as centres of national importance take on the role of development agents in the area and ensure the deployment of individual functions in the city itself and also in the region. They considered that the centres of the national memoirs were also carriers of regional development and that the number of future regions and their role were also questioned. In the context of this issue, the issue of the size of the Ljubljana region and the cities within it has been highlighted. The question of spatial development was also raised in areas with special potentials and problems and in this context a problem of homogeneous units such as Kočevje, Gorjanci, Kozjanski, Haloz and Idrijaski. As well as border areas and within this role and the importance of Goriška. In this regard, the definition of construction outside the settlement areas, which ensures the quality of the cultural landscape and the rounding and concentration of that dispersed settlement, which has the possibility of transport and municipal arrangements, urban activities and public transport connections, has been problematic, taking into account the protection of agricultural land with high and good production potential. The development of individual areas also depends on their commitment to infrastructure. Which ensures the development of activities in the space. In relation to this issue, the Committee has paid particular attention to the defined hierarchy of road transport links, in particular road transport links of cross-border importance and road links of national importance in terms of the linkage of this system system and the category of individual roads defined by the Road Act. The discussion of the members of the Committee was also focused on the development of ports along the coast and the provision of navigation on rivers and lakes and related infrastructures. Particular attention was paid to the development of existing airports for the purposes of civil, internal and international transport and their role in promoting development mainly in border areas. The Committee on Infrastructure, of course, proposes, in the light of the amendments adopted and the amendments proposed, that the State assembly, in the opinion of the Committee, also receive a quality document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. Colleagues and colleagues, the National Assembly has devoted five hours of debate to this item in the first general debate, and many words have been delivered to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. Today this point is aimed at a more second stage, i.e. amendments. Nevertheless, we will hear the views of the groups in the introduction, and then we will address the amendments. I am moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lenko will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! The spatial development strategy is one of the most important strategic national spatial acts. It is a starting point for the coordination of development policies in space, both at national level and in its narrower areas. This is also why it is worth the special treatment that we have already shown by presenting public opinions. At the time, we felt that it needed to be complemented, completed, and today there is a compromise that emerged at that time. Spatial development also depends on the economic development of specific areas. These differences are significant in Slovenia. Although they are still much smaller than other European countries, uneven development over the years and especially in the last year is increasing. This has already led to the abandonment of the inhabitants of such areas, but at the same time can mean social differentiation. On the other hand, such areas are already being purchased by foreigners, especially agricultural land. In the DeSUS Group, we consider it appropriate for such areas to be adequately protected. The strategy is essential to Slovenia's involvement in European space. The link with Europe must also depend on the infrastructure as a whole, both road and rail. Undoubtedly, our priority is to establish a fifth and tenth corridor linking Slovenia on the main roads with neighbouring countries. However, rail infrastructure is not neglected, which has already been given a lot of talk in this mandate. The strategy envisages linking Slovenian cities with fast railways, leaving the border of the mountain area. Everyone will probably agree that four hours by train from Nova Gorica to Ljubljana is not appropriate. In this regard, it is very important to develop border areas because of the strategic position. A conscious decision is needed to establish competition between border and border cities with neighbouring countries. This applies in particular to the region of Goriška, which can compete with cities in the neighbouring country with appropriate development both after economic pay and by the number of the population. The same is true for Maribor, which had to retain its primary role in this part of Europe. Accordingly, appropriate housing and employment policies should also be developed. Concentration of jobs outside the centre is a primary task that will enable further development and promote environmental education. This must also be adapted to the housing policy which will allow such staff to remain in the home environment. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the spatial development strategy is a good basis for balanced regional spatial development, although we note the possibility that with Slovenia's entry into the European Union things have changed slightly. Individuals, for the time being, statistical regions will pave the way for integration and the development of a common strategy with neighbouring countries. All of this is also encouraged by the European Union with various forms of assistance. Regardless of the fact that we are aware that one province in neighbouring Italy is difficult to compete according to the size of the country, we believe that with appropriate policy we will be able to formulate the requirements that we have set ourselves. Our Group of Members will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Joze Azhishch gets the word. Position of the LDS Member Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister and Fellow Members, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. In this mandate, the National Assembly has adopted all the necessary legislation to implement the reform of the management or management of the premises. At the moment, the implementation of new spatial legislation is already under way in Slovenia. It is a process that will last for several years and will end when the municipalities also replace their strategic and implementing spatial acts with new ones. Part of this process is the adoption of today's decisions on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. The spatial development strategy of Slovenia is a fundamental strategic spatial act of our country or a long-term spatial development document and, as such, provides the basis for the preparation of other spatial documents. Even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that 20 and even more years old spatial acts in the changed social and economic system no longer allow for a rapid and effective response to development needs and planning at national level. From this point of view, we accept this strategy even too late. Of course, on the other hand, we are aware of the complexity of the whole reform, as well as of the strategies themselves, which have created professional bases covering more than 30 studies and which have been provided by individual space regulators with over 20 professional bases. In our view, the strategy provides a real framework for spatial development in our country. Its main objective of directing spatial development towards the rational use of space as a limited and final good is true and crucial for our continued quality stay in this area at the crossroads of the Alps, the Pannonian and Dinaric and Mediterranean world. It must be pointed out, however, that the objective of the strategy is also the prudent use of our natural resources, the development of a polycentric network of cities and other settlements and their quality development to ensure their attractiveness. The strategy, jointly addressing spatial specificities of individual areas, ensures coherent spatial development, enables the effective integration of our infrastructure networks with European systems, integrates landscape and cultural diversity into spatial development and preserves nature as a value and takes into account the constraints and requirements for the protection of our environment. In the context of open borders within the European Union, it is also extremely important to ensure that individual Slovenian cities are as competitive as possible within the European space and, above all, competition with cities in our neighbourhood. This strategy correctly identifies and lays the basis for ensuring this competitiveness. Last but not least, the process of creating and adopting this strategy is characterised by the large and permissible involvement of the professional and other public, which the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy has worked very hard to achieve. Within the legislative process, the Ministry also listened to comments and suggestions from Members and Members. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, together with the professional services, has prepared a number of quality solutions that will also affect other spatial acts, first of all the spatial order of Slovenia, which the Government intends to adopt immediately after the implementation of the strategy. The spatial development strategy of Slovenia responds well to the spatial and development challenges in our country. It also responds to and accepts those international obligations that Slovenia has accepted by entering the EU and are strategically and developmentally important for Slovenia. For example, in the area of transport, spatial and strategic orientations are also included, which are or will be agreed with neighbouring countries. For example, yesterday an agreement on the Sava basin and the regime of navigation on the Sava River, which is or is included in the Danube navigation system, already has an application in this decree or strategy to explore the possibility of Slovenia or the Slovenian economy being included in this river navigation system. Another example of a good solution, as we estimate in the LDS Group, is the agreement on the border between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, which has not yet been ratified and has an application in the graphic part of the decree, which is very important for the definition of maritime waterways. These are only two examples of good and strategic economic and political solutions in the resolution of the spatial development of Slovenia. That is why the decree on the adoption of this strategy, as well as the amendments tabled by the Government or supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you, Josie Auschwitz. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The spatial development strategy that we have today at the last stage of our consideration is an extremely important document, which, together with the law on coherent regional development and partly with tax legislation, is a set of future developments in space. I must say that all these documents, which we are dealing with and some of which we have already dealt with, are not particularly favourable to certain areas. This strategy and the law on regional development of certain areas that are at great risk are, in fact, consciously missing, and you are deliberately putting them right at the brink of social economic and other developments. I must say that the approach in this strategy, despite the fact that we are referring to sonar, sustainable and I do not know what development is, is very selective, that virtually all subordinate to the development of strong places or some strong centres, to which we use this strategy to assign some additional specific tasks, while some other parts of the strategy are completely abandoned and seen as some white foxes in this space. I can see that this balanced development and sustainable development has become more or less a nuisanced phrase, and often we are not aware of what this actually means, and even less in order to realize that something really needs to be done in this area. We are one of the few countries that do not actually have a strategy in their documents to the highly exposed border areas that, under all the statistical criteria, are vacated unabated and the population from these areas is disappearing. We can't stop evictions, we can't make these areas attractive, we can't stimulate life in these areas, we can't stimulate economic investment, and we can't anticipate any benefits for life and work in these areas through tax legislation. Similarly to other exposed areas, especially mountain areas and practically throughout the strategy, we can monitor population migration, population movement and population concentration in larger centres, in so far as more or less this is completely contrary to the policy to preserve the cultivated, preserved cultural landscape. And that's also why our culture is steadily declining. There is a growing forest, the forestity of the area, there are new proposals for the establishment of national parks, and I feel that all of this is in the context of a targeted policy of abandoning life in certain areas. I think it is particularly problematic to leave the southern border, which is mainly the areas of the nomadic and fishing area, and I think that in this area the country should put in place a stronger and stronger and stronger system-wide policy. It is also evident through this strategy - as well as other laws - that the country is unable to create any new jobs in remote, rural areas. Even more! Through ongoing reforms, these jobs in public work in these peripheral rural areas are being abolished and moved to other centres. I think that if the country is unable or is unable to influence the economic development of these areas, it would be easy to maintain or encourage life and other activities in areas that are extremely vulnerable to emigration and day-to-day migration through a certain type of public investment. It has a whole range of options here, especially in the social field. For already, in one way or another, very dynamic urban centres invest large resources to preserve and promote life in this area of social and, say, elderly people, disabled people and so on. I think that investment in such institutions could save lives in other areas as well. This is not what the government is doing, nor does the strategy foresee, which I consider to be one of the major shortcomings. It is also clear that, in some parts, this strategy is not inter-resortably harmonised, and I have already mentioned the preservation of the agricultural area. I must say that in a way it is noticeable that some analysis of this strategy does not follow, I think it would only make sense to assess what this strategy will bring us in some dynamic way. I estimate that it is limited to capital interests. I think that, given the specificity of Slovenia, this is a relatively poorly populated area in the European scale, so that more emphasis should be placed on connecting regions, on some people, and I think that the proposaler himself should give more emphasis to this area. Here we have a case where even when there is an interest in integrating an area, somehow a stronger link, has given some common strategic goal and set development, the country opposes such a link, we see this from the proposal or comments on the amendments. Transport corridors are also a particular problem or part of the problem. There are also some important links and not enough emphasis on rail work, one such link is also left out of this strategy, which is essentially a blind type, but this option is not feasible in the next 20, 30 years, especially because we cannot arrange any other thing with Croatia, and I think it would be reasonable to foresee a link to the Slovenian network, which is connected across the White Country, and thus to the better mobility of the part that is linked to the Ortnek store. Because in the event of a road closure against Ljubljana, this warehouse is more or less completely "frozen" and it is not possible either to restore it or it is not possible to carry out the transport across the second leg. I must say that almost all the strategic documents proposed by individual departments in the procedure are dealing with the regions. Not only are these regions not spatially harmonised, but there are also different names for proposing. In a coherent regional development we have development regions, in this strategy there are functional regions, in the law proposed by the internal ministry, we are talking about regions, etc. In short, everything in some way is covered, content-different, spatially different, and I think that this innovation of the proponents in this area creates only confusion and disturbs the public. I think that if we are talking about functionally rounded areas, about regions, then it makes sense that we then process this content according to all the criteria within certain limits, but not that each resort, each proposer of this border, draws it completely on his own. I think it would make sense for this strategy, which, as the Minister has said, is one key document, to be complemented by some other proposals, I think at least by those proposed by our parliamentary group, and I think that certain areas, not all of them, have been abandoned, somehow revived and attached to this Slovenian space. Above all, I think that the connection and development of Ribnica and Kočev as some kind, as you predicted in some other cases, is very important, because in the case that these two places do not develop as some people, this degrade of the area. The proposal, which is written in the strategy, makes sense in the case of Kočev's location here, such as Ribnica. In the case that Kočevje is not the gravity center of Ribnica, but all activity is moving towards Ljubljana, it is only meaningful that this should be systematically developed as a whole, as well as both provincial components of this area. The fact is that the area around Ribnica and Kočev is extremely empty. That is to say, all this area, that very little of this holiday has concentrated in Kočev, a little more in Ribnica, but the further trend is fully directed towards Ljubljana. I think it would make sense to place a special emphasis on this area, which has also been systematically neglected in the past more than any other area in Slovenia. And I think that politics should soon find the strength and solutions to take a systematic approach to the development of this area. In short, I suggest that the amendments proposed by our Group of Members support and at least allow for further integration and development in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janko Weber is given the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia is an extremely important document, as it provides the basis for the preparation of other spatial documents, particularly the spatial order of the country, the regional design of spatial development and, of course, the spatial order of municipalities. At the first reading, or the very suggestion of a decree, when we read it in the UK Group, we had quite a few concerns. Our main point was that the strategy was too ambitious. However, it is a fact that a new spatial document and document is being adopted, which introduces Slovenia both into international space and, of course, also enables faster and more ambitious development within the country itself. Our concerns, in addition to ambition, were also in the very criteria the applicant used to design spatial development. In particular, we have noted here that it is an inappropriate solution to foresee intensive spatial development in some areas, while others are expected to be actively protected by spatial values. We are advocates of sustainable spatial development, not least in this document, even in the first proposal, and, of course, in today's updated proposal for a resolution on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia this is the case. However, we believe that the complementary proposal is indeed much better than the proposed proposal and, above all, has drawn close to sustainable spatial development in the greatest sense. This development is, of course, integrated into the international situation of Slovenia, especially the spatial development of transport corridors, both the fifth and tenth corridors, and of course the maritime transport corridor. This is reflected also in the sense of our largest cities. Ljubljana as our national centre is also an important international centre. This is followed by Maribor, which, in addition to the proposal, has an even more important function, has high functions and top institutions, and Koper has an important national importance in addition to the important transport and maritime centre, along with the cities of Izola and Piran. All of these are guidelines, which we also support in the United Nations Group of Members, and are the answer that we are going to an even more active development at our most important centres. The most important centres are also followed by national centres and, of course, regional centres. If we look at the network of national centres in the basic proposal and in the supplementary proposal of the decree, we can see that the network of national centres has become dense. Here we focus on the new national centre Postojna and we are also talking about the future national centre of Kočev. In addition to the national centres, a network of regional centres has been concentrated. Above all, we are looking at Ormož, Ljutomer, Gornja Radgono, Lendava, which means that development in these areas will also take place more intensively and in line with the needs of the population. Greater importance is also given to border areas and all these areas, both regional and, of course, national, connect the road network, which is more biased or set up in a way that makes the day more important to cross-border connections in different directions than it was in the original proposal. Here we find a new important cross-border link Ljubljana-Kočevje, then also towards Idrija and, of course, within the country itself, the important connection between Škofje Loka and Ljubljana and, of course, also with Domžal. It is also an extremely faster and easier link between national and regional centres in this proposal. At the time of the settlement itself, important places have been acquired which are faced with a vast empty space, and it is of course important for this empty space to develop, in particular, the cities that are directly important for the development of these areas. Such places are, of course, located in Kočevska, Notranjska, Cerkljanska and especially in Kras. This response is also much more concrete in this proposal, and it also means faster development of these areas. The hilly and border areas are also more appropriately addressed in this proposal, and this means that the southern border, as well as the hilly areas in the country, will receive greater attention, greater support. With this, of course, we can really talk about the fact that the updated proposal for a resolution on the spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is truly focused on sustainable spatial development and provides a response somehow to the lack of documents that we might otherwise have to have, in order to make this document even more appropriate - in particular, we have in mind a national programme to increase the capacity of both state roads and, in particular, transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia - but if we do not have these documents, we will, by means of a spatial strategy, provide important starting points for the creation of these missing documents, and we hope that we will also speed up the reception and treatment of these important strategic documents in Slovenia. The Spatial Development Strategy, the updated proposal, will be adopted and also supported by all those important additions to lead to even better text and to improve the development of the most important centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you, Janku Webru. Franci Rokavec has the word, the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u14	Thank you, for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members. Behind us is the first stage of the adoption of the proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, also the public presentation of opinions. It has been repeatedly said that the strategy is a fundamental state document to guide developments in space and in relation to basic national development documents. It sets strategic orientations for the development of activities and for the coordination of their development policies in the area. The strategy is a cover document for all users of the space, but contributing to the strategy must lead to a more operational document at national level. We are aware that the strategy conceptually solves problems, that many of the measures also bring other strategies and that it is part of the measures within the competence of the municipalities and also the basis or strategy for the spatial development of municipalities should not be contrary to the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and, of course, to the spatial order of Slovenia that follows it. A number of amendments were adopted to the strategy. Many of them are welcome additions to content. They would mention the construction of out-of-town areas. With regard to this issue, the applicant pointed out that it is regarded as a negative phenomenon, which is at issue mainly due to the low density of the settlement, particularly at the outskirts of the cities and in suburban settlements. It also prevents the rationality of utility equipment, prevents rational use of energy, etc. Nevertheless, in exceptional cases, the possibility of a dispersed construction should be made available, as it is not always possible to remedy the dispersal of construction in certain cases. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support such an adopted amendment on the Committee, which allows the local community to decide in its acts how it will develop its potential. Building outside the settlement areas should be a role of raising the quality of cultural landscape, living conditions and employment opportunities - we assess, of course, as positive. Of course, as a possible paragraph, it also seems important to us that out-of-town areas - both for the construction of farms - can also be used for land, where it is an area with high agricultural potential, an appropriate agricultural land concentration on the farm and, of course, in accordance with the requirements for the protection of natural resources and the quality of the landscape and of course the built environment. It should be noted that, in certain cases, dispersal of construction has made it possible to move in more remote parts of our country. Also due to the trend of larger cities, it is necessary to ensure that less populated and remote areas remain populated. It seems important to us that Slovenia is equally involved in European space, as this will try to make it possible to connect with European space, promote development in border areas and connect infrastructure networks into European network infrastructure. We also positively assess the cooperation of border areas, as they will be able to obtain additional financial resources from the European Union Structural Funds on the basis of joint development programmes of the cross-border region. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that Slovenia must maintain its involvement in the European space. Slovenia must become part of the European infrastructure that will create the conditions for economic, cultural, tourist and general communication links with the border countries and other European countries. It also seems important to us that the number of inhabitants in the larger cities and the emptiness of the hilly parts of our country are large. The concentration of the population, the location of the seats of manufacturing and service companies in large cities, means the pressure of settlements on these places, which affects the price of land and housing, also means the concentration of jobs; a greater number of these are always positive, but this means unemployment at the outskirts of cities, the daily migration of large numbers of people, and ultimately the lack of parking spaces. It is necessary to focus on the competitiveness of Slovenian cities in the European space and to take into account that centralisation is present in our country. As a result, the development of Slovenian cities means raising the quality of life of Slovenian citizens and citizens, as they will be able to work closer to their home, and this also means an economic increase in other Slovenian regions. In connection with this topic, we welcome the amendment to Chapter 2 - priority: the polycentric urban system and regional spatial development, paragraph 13, which underlines the importance of the development of Ljubljana together with other centres. These urban centres will thus be given the opportunity to become European comparable cities, to become vital cities that will be so interesting for economic investment, which consequently means new employment opportunities. The strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia is a document that has long been produced. Also in line with the recommendations and guidelines of international documents, the European Spatial Development Strategy, the Habitat Agenda and many international conventions. However, we are now faced with a question that has already been raised in a public presentation of opinions. In view of the fact that specific protection areas for a government regulation have not yet been established in the formulation of the strategy, that no specific protection areas or Natura 2000 network have yet been established and that Slovenia is to be established at the time of its entry into the European Union. Professional grounds are for declaring special protection areas defined in 38% of the Slovenia - Nature 2000. We are aware that the establishment of a network of Natura 2000 sites means meeting the obligations of the Community adopted under the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. However, we are again wondering what this means, at least in a framework, for a spatial development strategy. In addition, we believe that municipalities should be significantly more involved in the preparation of this document, because because of the lack of information provided by the municipalities, given the fact that the implementation of Nature 2000 means a certain impact on people's lives and work, means that such implementation will be more difficult to implement. It is clear from practice that projects not created in cooperation with local communities have not achieved the desired effects. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the spatial strategy with all the additions has been given a framework that, together with the amendments tabled before us, could be a suitable basis for reception. And maybe to the end. This strategy is followed by the adoption of the spatial order of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect only this active process of accepting spatial order to include the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you, Franci Rokavec. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! The proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia points again to the underdevelopment of the starting points at which the government prepared this proposal for a decree. Spatial development strategies are largely lacking in criteria and criteria to ensure its usefulness. The content of the text of the decree should be rational. The decision should be more transparent and the strategy more active and more compact. And the changes the strategy is supposed to bring are not really visible. Undoubtedly, the decree does not address the problems of spatial development. There is no breakdown of housing supplies, transport, especially accommodation and much more. It is also not mentioned in the strategy whether the trend of immigration to Slovenia from the East, which fell slowly between 1975 and 1995, due to our independence, will be revived by Slovenia's entry into the European Union and a steady flow of people from the Eastern countries into Slovenia will begin, as is the case in other European Union countries and does not take into account the possibility of immigration into Slovenia. Slovenia should be more creative, especially where the European Union will significantly intervene and dictate Slovenia through its regional structural assistance strategy. We also do not have a structured system of how to draw on certain financial resources from Europe, except for the declarations that this is supposed to be happening, which is no longer the case. Nor does the strategy highlight the uncontrolled growth of trading centres and the smoothing of small and medium-sized enterprises, which undoubtedly has a bad impact on the development of existing settlements centres and also causes them to be rescinded economically. Urban centres are increasingly less prepared for a complex reform, which should be the basis for sustainable development as stated in the strategy. Local centres are dying, small shops are dying, nothing is done in this area, except for some local interventions where local communities themselves are fighting this problem with greater or less success. The Slovenian government has always ignored the reality of the theory of central places and polycentrism in terms of the development of urban centres. The rest is actually just a declaration and a theory of less developed areas, because the government has not led - so far - the developmental urban policy. We can see this in Cyprus, where nothing has been done in the area of infrastructure, utilities, the relationship to the port in Cyprus is wrong, we still have in the area of storage and transport bulk loads, instead of moving to containers and bulky cargo that are ecologically burdening the environment, we have pushed somewhere else. As far as railway infrastructure is concerned, the government is already making a huge mistake in itself when it privatises and makes public spending, at the expense of taxpayers, of railway infrastructure in the hands of some private people and we will only pay again, and nothing will come out of it. In recent years, the government has not identified a network of state, regional and local centres and adequate landscapes, because the spatial system did not share the macro-economic thinking of the leading politicians. This kind of starts just now, but with quite a bit of a backlog and a lot of delay. Similarly, analyses show that Slovenia's housing market, given the critical state of housing care, is not working. There is no doubt that we have the worst relationship between ownership and rental apartments in Europe. An active land policy is also questionable. The expansion of settlements takes place due to the needs of the population in some strange, unconstant growth that resembles cancerous creation. If we fly over Slovenia, we see it kind of looks like a shit nest: it's all scattered, it's a little bit here, it's a little bit there. If we fly over Germany, we see that the settlements are arranged in a way that preserves nature, that preserves agricultural surfaces, which stands in the back row. They are still subject to certain political pressures from certain political parties for the construction of various industrial buildings, including in the first category land area. On the other hand, we note that the government does nothing to protect certain segments, such as the Ljubljana Barium, which is sown with black constructions, and probably because they count on the vote of those black builders, they do nothing. Similarly, politics also interferes with ecology in the field of, say, the construction of 47 wind power plants on the Volova rib and Vremščica, where political pressures are involved. As I am aware, the Spanish king and Drnovšek agreed to set up these wind power plants, that wind power plants would be installed by Spanish companies and Spanish companies would also supply equipment. Some small Elektro Primorska will benefit from this, and much more probably some particular political party and political structure or certain gentlemen from this political structure. This has happened before, and this is going to happen. To destroy a unique cultural and natural landscape in this part of Slovenia or Europe in general, nobody cares anymore. It's a matter of small private interests, what's going to drip into someone's pocket. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this is - not only a "pig", but a crime of nature, which I hope will be punished if not sooner, after the next elections. Something similar is happening with the construction of a levelling lake on Sava, where the nature park of Brje and Piškovica will be destroyed - and no one cares. The government, or the Ministry of Environment and Space, boasts with some declarative positions, of which there is nothing after all. They are also attempting to restore the Soča basin to the system of construction of water plants by decree. The nature-protection profession has repeatedly rejected these projects, and yet it is a matter of pushing forward with force, however they try to achieve it, I think it is also here 'one big mess'. In the construction strategy of the pipeline through Slovenia, we do not know what this pipeline will be: whether it is an underground or an underground pipeline. Probably doesn't matter to the government, just to get any financial benefits out of it. As far as the pipeline is concerned, the pipeline is, in principle, meaningful, but must be buried, it must be buried in order not to corrupt the natural landscapes of Slovenia. However, I think it is here that big question, the question of the culture of space, because it is the recognition and excellence of Slovenia. They still consider Slovenia Europe's natural pearl. Instead of maintaining it, the Slovenian government intends to devalue, destroy, so that some gentlemen from the governing structure, especially from both the main parties of the governing structure, the LDS and the United Lists, have any private benefits or any small benefits that local gentlemen would have. It is also not meaningful or harmful to marry the spatial spreads of Natura 2000. The government in Europe should be given financial resources to support local communities, this can be obtained, of course, by capable politicians, not by ignorants and fools, as it has been now - and we have not received anything. Anything is possible, anything can and, Mr President, I repeat again: with the ignorant, fools and pests at government level. And the Slovenian national party will not support such a harmful strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u17	You've insulted the government's representatives. Alojz Sok is given the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u18	Mr Minister, Mr President, with fellow Members, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. This document, which we now have before us a strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia, must be found to be significantly better than what the government or the ministry proposed in the draft phase. I have even experienced that Mr Novak has called me, and some things have been further explained, and I think he actually has the greatest credit for having a very different document before us today. However, I would still like to point out, on behalf of New Slovenia, that this document is full of terms such as "we want to", "we want to", "we want to work", "we must", "we feel that it is necessary" and so on, which is certainly of value, which in itself cannot be achieved if the criteria and criteria for their implementation are not added, unless measures are added to implement development and spatial policies. I think that's been said quite a few times today. Above all, there is a lack of modern law on coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia at this time. Unfortunately, in this House, we have postponed this law from session to session, and now that Parliament is somehow at the end of its work, it seems obvious that it will not be possible to adopt this law in this mandate. Of course, for one coherent regional development, such a law would be urgently needed, as the developmental differences in Slovenia today between regions, I say, are increasing. The secretary says they stay the same. But even though it would remain the same, what are the effects of the current law on coherent regional development? Secondly, what I would like to draw attention to on behalf of New Slovenia seems to us that this decree is too extensive, however, to be drawn into lengthy explanations and interpretations instead of succinct, and some are repeated even more in this document. This, however, is no big deal, nor is it necessary or is it a decision that often blurs things out in some parts. A strategy that could, in fact, say a plan, a construction plan for the construction of the Republic of Slovenia will certainly be based on the law on space regulation. However, this strategy should be operational as an operational document at national level that will provide sufficient development opportunities for local communities. I think it's done with some amendments now. The vitality and attractiveness of rural and urban areas will, of course, depend not only on this spatial strategy, but mainly on other policies such as social policy, infrastructure policy, environmental policy, economic policy and could also be listed. All these policies are, of course, in the government domain and in the national assembly and depend on financial incentives, legislation, tax, both directly and directly regulated by the State. The claim that the policy of polycentrism so far meant the comprehensive development of regionally important centres, as stated in the explanation of this decree, is not supported by the New Slovenia assessment. The Slovenian government ignored polycentrism in terms of the development of urban centres and did not pursue a real polycentric development policy. The theory of the development of less developed areas remained more or less on paper, at the declaration level. I could count a few cases here. If I take the case of Pomurje, according to the statistics of the Employment Service, only last year around 2000 active residents, mostly in the Ljutomer administration unit, moved from the Pomur region. As an example, the uncontrolled growth of large trading centres in the larger centres could also be cited - this has already been pointed out by the speaker before me - and at the expense of this, small and medium-sized centres are failing because these trading centres and thus capital is moving away from these small centres to large. In the Republic of Slovenia, Austria should limit the square of shopping centres on the periphery according to the size of the settlement and also to the needs of the population. The spatial situation so far is strongly reflected in the growing building of agricultural land. That's what a lot of people are warning you about. The Earth strategy must be in the function of rational urban development and rural development while protecting the environment. This document, for example, states that infrastructure facilities should be placed in a space in such a way that they do not cause fragmentation of closed agricultural areas. If we had really stuck to it, the highways would have gone a lot differently than they actually did today. Together, we should strive for sustainable spatial development and anticipate such use of space and spatial arrangements as to protect natural goods without jeopardising future generations. Natural resources should have the highest priority and only if I mention the situation in the area of one of the natural resources, this is in the area of agricultural land, in this area - perhaps I quote - from the examination itself on the Committee of Mr Premzl, who said that according to the data of the Statistical Office from 1991 to 2000, agriculture lost 55,560 hectares of land, half of which amount is land and half of the grassland. In ten years we have lost more than 26,000 hectares or, in other words, a bad fifth of all field areas in Slovenia. And all the amendments that have been adopted to this decision have gone in this direction so that this area of agricultural processing areas is further reduced. This is certainly contrary to the declared sustainable use of natural goods. This government obviously does not realize that agricultural land should be protected for several reasons. In fact, all industrially developed countries have strong agriculture, but of course it is not without working agricultural areas. Nor does any regulated European country leave agricultural land and forests to the liberal laws of the market and to the speculative functioning of capital and individuals, as this peaceful soul can claim to be happening with us. The conservation of agricultural land in the long term ensures the development of the economy, tourism, the preservation of cultural landscapes, the settlement of space, biodiversity and thus the broadest national interest in sovereignty and security. We're building the land, and it's a reverse process. And it must be realized that in fact the building is a one-way and irreversible process. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that this fact is not sufficiently taken into account in this document and that this strategy has, in fact, gone awry in this direction. For this reason, although I have initially said that the decree is significantly better than the draft that the comments in this resolution are made both by public debate and by comments from political parties, rather than by comments from other civil society institutions, we will not support it in Novi Slovenija because we are aware of the need to maintain sustainable development because we are aware of what agricultural land means for the existence of a Slovenian state. And once again, this particular aspect is not sufficiently taken into account in this document and that is why I do not intend to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before continuing, I propose that we agree on a way of working or voting. There may be two ways to vote after the debate on an amendment, or we may wait for the conclusion, or we may debate and vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 86. I, as chairman, have this opportunity, about all the amendments, then we will vote after each other. I'd decide on this other way, the debate on the amendments, and then we'd go to the vote. Otherwise, we'll delay the session. Who's opposed? [[No, no, ……]] So, we're going to have a debate on the amendments. After the discussion, we will proceed to the vote. We are therefore moving on to a debate on amendments. You have an overview of the amendments you have received from 16.6.2004, which contains all the amendments that have been tabled by the time they can be tabled, collected and opened the debate on the amendments to the introduction. I ask you kindly and call for us to discuss the amendment that has been put to the debate. The amendment to the introduction speaks of road links in international, cross-border and is of national importance and railway links of international and national importance. And so we're talking about this chapter. Who would like to take the floor to the amendment tabled by the parliamentary group or the LDS Club for the introduction of the strategy? Anybody want a word? [[Nobody]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to the introduction. I am moving on to the debate on the amendments to chapter two. Four amendments have been tabled here. The first amendment has been tabled by the government, the second amendment has been tabled by the LDS Club, the third amendment has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group and the fourth amendment by the LDS Club. The amendments speak of important places of regional and other importance. Anyone want a word with these amendments? Would we go in order, each amendment individually? I am opening a debate on all four amendments to this chapter. Comrade Saša Peca has the floor as the first discusser, then Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! The law basically provided that the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia or Slovenia was adopted in three phases, despite the fact that it is a decree. The first part therefore raises the question: "How is it that the amendment to the amendment to the supplementary draft decision on the spatial development strategy to this second chapter has not been adopted for consideration by the Slovenian National Party? The amendment talks about the content of Maribor and the ratings or content of the proposal, which should be supplemented by our assessment in the strategy itself. First, I would like to ask for an answer and later comment by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u21	Just a minute. 135. Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure: "The drafter may submit amendments to the amendments by the beginning of the consideration of the draft law where amendments may be tabled on the basis of paragraph 2 of the previous amendment, etc. " By the beginning of this agenda item, I have no amendment to the amendment. Sorry, you're late for the deposit. Comrade Peca, debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u22	I am sorry, I must point out, given that we are obviously reading the Rules of Procedure differently, because I was talking about the amendment to the amendment, but I would talk about the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group in the second chapter. We estimate that the amendment is a number that complements the priorities or obligations or ratings of Ljubljana, the city of Maribor, the city of Koper, it would certainly make sense to support our assessment. While it is estimated that they are pursuing the objective, as has been transmitted by some representatives of local communities. However, we certainly think it would be advisable to supplement the amendment. Now I ask what is the option in this process, that is, final consideration, to complete the content, as proposed by the party, for example, in our case, Mayor Sovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u23	There is no business opportunity for an amendment to the amendment. So they're gone and those who were invested are irrelevant because they were too late. We are therefore discussing the amendments that we have in our review. Majda Potrat has a word to discuss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the complementary proposal of the strategy, paragraph 13 of the second chapter received a supplement on Maribor, as the second largest city in the country and the state-important transport vehicle, also discusses the possibilities of links between Maribor at international level with neighbouring regions of Austria, Croatia and Hungary. Of course, in the amendment to the 14th paragraph of the Liberal Democracy, it is possible to find what the amended proposal releases, namely the possibility that Maribor, as an important city, connects something else, not only at the regional level, because it has the word "in particular". And from this point of view, the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy can be accepted and supported. However, the proposal for an amendment is impoverished because in paragraph 13 it leaves this city, which talks about possibilities for international cooperation or cross-border cooperation. Of course, I should say that I think it would be worth or good to support the amendments of the LDS if you also received support for the amendment to the amendment proposed by the government because it also speaks of Maribor as an important place with high functions, top institutions and important business cultural services and care activities. Let us now leave the comparison between Maribor, Kopro and Ljubljana, this comparison shows that the same things are named in three places in different ways. What I would certainly like to remind you of is that there is a difference in the treatment of the three centres in these three places. However, in the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, Ljubljana also notes that the broad hinterland of Lithuania, Kamnik, Domžale and I do not know anything else that has a favourable impact on the development of a larger urban centre is also favourable in terms of migration pressure, because it is a matter of daily migration and there is something else to talk about. There is also talk of some three cities in Cyprus: Kopra, Piran and Izole. But if we look at Maribor, it looks like Maribor's broader back, from which it draws as much human resources as anything else, and there is no such thing in Maribor. But those who live in Maribor know that there are important municipal centres in Maribor, as well as a city, and it would be right to point out that what enables Maribor to develop significantly in the future, as the second largest city in the country, is also growing from its placement in what I have previously talked about, into a network of many municipalities that also give, if we look at the dispersal and development potential, a chance for good cooperation and, at least, as far as the regional development strategy is concerned, in Maribor, this can already be seen in cooperation between the three different development agencies, if I remain only at this level. I would therefore like to say that the amendments of the Liberal Democracy and the amendment to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy cannot, of course, be countered if one wants to see as much balanced treatment of individual cities. I note, however, that the wish of none of the amendments, as well as the amendment to the amendment, does not resolve some dilemmas that remain open and do not meet what has been taken into account in the preparatory procedures for the strategy, but has, unfortunately, been left out of this strategy in the next steps of consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u26	I really don't want to delay, but we have just been informed that it is possible that, according to our assessment, it would be meaningful for the development of the rest of Slovenia, not exclusively for the Ljubljana municipality, to incorporate in the strategy itself also a correction by the amendment of the Liberal Democracy or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I appeal to the representatives of the Liberal Democracy to transform the existing dictatorship of their amendment into a second indent, which reads: 'Maribor is developing at the state level as the second largest city in the country and the state-important hub of transport', which turns into a dictatorship: 'Maribor is developing as the second largest city in the country, which connects internationally with the neighbouring regions of Austria, Croatia and Hungary. At the national level, it develops as the centre of northeastern Slovenia. At regional level, however, as the centre of the sub-regional functional region. At the level of the wider Maribor City Area, it is connected to a polycentric network of mutually active centres. The city is a state transport hub that develops top institutions, businesses, cultural and service activities and tourism activities and institutions of state importance." And then there are some of these: the university, the clinical hospital, the Post Office of Slovenia, Telekom and others. Our assessment would, of course, make sense if in the Liberal Democracy, given that it failed to make a timely contribution to the completion of the strategy in order to complement their amendment. From here, I urge you to complete your amendment with the content we have proposed in the National Party, but unfortunately this is impossible because of the rules of procedure. I would like to ask if, later on, at least one of the representatives of the Liberal Democracy is to be identified for the proposed offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. In particular, I would like to talk about the amendment tabled by our Group of Members. It is intended primarily because this southern area, which covers more than or less two administrative units, Ribnica and Kočevje, is practically from all these development contexts, as a system omitted. The fact is that the cause of the void in this area is also largely or exclusively history, because in large part it was an area with special circumstances, with special conditions. And all of this robbery, represented by the Fisherman and other things, has been significantly hampered and handicapped in this development. As a result of this history, too, I will say that situations that do not have a beneficial effect on the integration of both parts of this area. Therefore, I also propose that both areas develop formally as some people, as you have the case in some other cases in this paragraph. It should be said that this area has a type of common characteristics, that it is extremely poorly populated, that there is a marked day-to-day migration, that it is an area with pronounced developmental problems as a system and that it is to a large extent a border area. And that area on the southern border, which is actually in the far worst condition. The population in this area is far above average. If we do not somehow round this strategic area and give it a special opportunity, then it is necessary to know that not one of these places will be able to survive on its own, because the area is subject to considerable, not only emigration, but also very high daily migration. And that also means, in perspective, probably permanent eviction. The fact is that the trend in this area is extremely poor, and even for a strategic reason, I think that the country should be defined as a specific area in such documents that it accepts as such or for this particular area. This is an area that deserves additional attention, according to all the development criteria and parameters that are in this strategy, on the question of the development of space, on the question of transport development, on the question of infrastructure development, public infrastructure in terms of public investment in institutions and so on. This is also an area that is also highly susceptible to growth. That's a fact. I think we should have so much wisdom that through the regulations, through the acts, through the legislation we are adopting, we are trying to solve these local problems and things as much as possible and to achieve that the complex system is developing as a single system, that all of these local dilemmas, local problems, which are largely conditioned through the past, are trying to unite them, connect them and give them a special place and also give them additional impetus. I hope that the drafter of the strategy, this is the government, even though I see it in the explanatory statement that this amendment does not support that it will change its opinion, because, in my opinion, this is the only thing that gives this area hope at all, that it will survive at all. As I said, trends in any sense, on any side we look at them, are extremely bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I have already mentioned several times in this National Assembly that this country's policy should once again be achieved at that other level of decision-making, either in the regions or in the provinces. This also shows, now that we are talking about these amendments, that the very lack of legal regulation in this area is also causing difficulties in the strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia. If the second level of decision-making were somehow regulated, it could also lead relevant regional policies and it is only spatial development and regional spatial development would be one reflection of these regional policies, which, of course, we lack. For this reason, it seems to me that what has been said several times in the debates that in Slovenia, as far as the provinces or regions are concerned, should be divided into several parts, because when Slovenia is only in one piece into NUTS2, as a country is also infested, this will cause us great problems in the development itself, including in the development of spatial planning, because resources that would be obtained in a different division could also be used differently in spatial development. However, it seems to me that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club is one that points to this and shows support for the fact that Slovenia should also be divided into three provinces in the second article. The entire spatial development, which is planned here, is limited to three major centres, which are of international importance, namely Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor. For this reason, I think it is wise to support this stage of the amendment and the amendment of the government to this amendment, and then, of course, if possible, then in the further procedure this can be improved. Of course, the inadmissibility of this suggests that we somehow avoid what would be good for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Majnik to the floor, then Mr State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u32	I have quite a few reservations to the amendment, which, by the way, was tabled by my Group of Members. We are talking about the second chapter, where we are prioritising the polycentric urban system and regional spatial development. In this part we also define the centres of national importance and priorities for their development. By means of the amendment, we extend the territory of the capital with all its tasks, powers and functions to all others, the amendment lists the centres previously defined in the text, either the centres of regional importance, for example, somestja - Domžale, Kamnik, or as medo-cultural centres - Grosuplje, Lithia, Logatec and Vrhnika. If we accept this amendment, it is imperative that all of the above centres be deleted from the text where they were previously defined. It is impossible to be in a situation where, for example, Lithuania is an inter-agency centre and at the same time part of the capital, this is part of Ljubljana or the national centre of Slovenia. I am also opposed to the amendment because all that is contained in the explanation of this amendment is already defined in point 7 of the same chapter, where the function of the influential area of the centre, which covers all these synergistic effects listed as an explanation of this proposal, is recorded. The Minister has made clear the importance of the document that we are adopting today. Unfortunately, since we have not adopted a coherent regional development law, this strategic document will be of paramount importance for all calls for the allocation of funds for this development, including the candidateing of funds for the construction of economic zones, so I am committed to the development of Slovenia everywhere at least equally, not in the form of a concentrated circle as if you threw a stone into the water, and it is being carried out from the centre of development on all other sides. When Mrs Majda Potrate spoke, I can only partially agree with her. In fact, when connecting with neighbouring cross-border regions, I must point out that there is also a national centre of Murska Sobota against Hungary and the national centre of regional importance of Ptuj against Croatia. Outside and through some national centres, without connecting to one big whole, I don't think that's gonna work. Everyone sees the development of Slovenia differently, I imagine it is indeed more even than it has been before, because only with the developed whole of Slovenia will we be a good country but not only with the developed centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite the Secretary of State. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u34	Respectable. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion in all the years with regard to the network of settlements and polycentric development in the country. Part of the reasons why it has not yet been concluded are given. However, we can say that this document sets the network and the system most coherently and at least addresses two extremes from spatial development. One extreme that may be happening could be centralisation to the extent that Ljubljana is everything and everything around nothing. And the other extreme, which is not good, is that we would have equivalent development literally in all settlements in Slovenia. These two extremes in practice, and also in conclusion, have problems that, of course, we do not get to a structure and also the effects of each other can be worse. In the network of settlements, these two major settlements, of which there are talks today, have been written with these additional amendments in a way that we have tried to describe Ljubljana in this more meaningful sense, as some of the parliamentary initiatives have been mentioned at this time. This is not the same as the Ljubljana region. The text itself says several times about this central Slovenian region, which gives a pass to Kranj, but also to a certain extent elsewhere, but actually defines this narrower part. Nor does this mean that these settlements along with Ljubljana take over Ljubljana's functions, but it means that in this wider circle Ljubljana is more competitive with these centres in Europe and abroad. And no more. Some functions were added in Maribor and Koper, although they were already mentioned in the second text, however, he wanted to be added to this text with addition, which is basically why this addition is still with Maribor and Koper. It is true, as Member Peca has explained, but he has proposed some additional functions to be mentioned here. I don't think that's necessary because in point 14 this international function is already listed immediately after this, as some of you have already summarized. Also in the previous chapter, in points 4 and 5, when we are talking about the formation of regions with neighbouring countries, and in point 5, Chapter 1 in this part. It's on page 18 in my office. We are talking about the creation of regions with neighbouring countries, and in point 5, the impacts in areas of large neighbouring cities, Trieste, Zagreb, Gradca, River, spatial development form this international link, which you mentioned earlier. The text may also be more modest than is indicated here. We did not want to open new discussions on this, but in fact only what you have discussed so far, in some way define. This means that no regional centre has a smaller function than it had before. And a second explanation to Ambassador Tank. With regard to point 16, where we are talking about this nomadic area in specific measures relating to it. We wrote, of course, the word "Kočevsko" and not "Kočevje", in the short term "Kočevsko" in this broader sense, rather than the broadest term, where we have, of course, pointed out one of the measures at the southern border, which, of course, in the very text more, are quite significant, both in infrastructure and elsewhere, in order to serve this because of these natural conditions and all others. This means that, in a broader sense, this pond area, if you want, is already covered in this concept. For this reason, we do not believe that an additional amendment is necessary. However, as stated then in the measures, it is necessary to take into account that these measures are also actually implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's something he wants to discuss with you. Just to let you know about the order. Mr Rokavec, Mr Bevk, Mr Sok, Mr Tanko and Mr Butolen, Mr Jerovšek. To the word of Mr. Rokavac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that I welcome the amendment of the Liberal Democracy under point 2. However, I do not, of course, want to underestimate in any way the issues that have been related to the question of Maribor today. I am probably of the opinion that it is probably true that this issue may also be under-described, especially in relation to the link between the so-called Maribor ring. Otherwise, it must be said that it is more than fitting for the so-called promise ring to be formed in polycentric development. Why? This ring already has the so-called urban rail traffic between these centres that it is. It is also an ambition to take the Ljubljana urban region to form a tram line between the Long Bridge and Kamnik. These are, of course, the long-term plans of the Ljubljana urban region. That is why I believe that this should also be indicated in the Spatial Development Strategy, and above all my assessment of this amendment is of the following. First time. To connect these areas to the capital. Another time. To prevent too much concentration in the city itself and to try to shape development in these smaller cities around the capital. This is probably also the goal, and perhaps we should really consider what our colleague Peca said earlier. Of course, within the framework of the business option, there is only the possibility of supplementing or amending the amendment. In this case, it is likely that only the proposer of the amendment has the option of correcting or supplementing such an amendment and in the case of Maribor. I think it would probably be helpful in the case of Maribor. Slovenia must develop as an equivalent opportunity to stay, for economic, entrepreneurial development and, of course, for the development of tourism. In addition, I would also touch on the amendment, which was also discussed by my colleague Tanko. In my opinion, it would make sense to accept this amendment. It is one possible artificial, a little too severe division that will also be made in this strategy. Maybe stretching one place and on the other side reducing possibilities only in this strategy. I am not saying that it will be possible, if these things are written down, that development will actually go on the basis of these documents, it will also go on the basis of others, but we know that any projects that arise, which then, of course, also have the opportunity to succeed, are placed in this key strategic document of the country, but have a considerable weight. Therefore, I think that this idea, which, of course, the applicant invented, is a very good idea, so that where interest is, this should be complemented. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, when we discussed this important document for our further development, I proposed an amendment to the eighth priority, that is, spatial development in areas with specific potentials and problems, which the Committee then fully adopted. I would also like to quote this new amendment, which reads: "The Goriška region should be rapidly developed as an equal partner due to the direct spatial link with the neighbouring Italian territories and the historical linkage of the hinterland to Gorica, as a natural centre, with the gradual natural blending of the cities of Gorica and Nova Gorica into the single urban structure enabling the equivalence and competitiveness of Nova Gorica and its functions in the wider cross-border area." This amendment of the Committee was also adopted with the express support of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, in our review of the amendments, we are also right to this 6th point of the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, with which the government also agrees and supports it. That's what it says. 15.06.2004 The government supported this amendment of the Liberal Democracy. I would therefore ask the representatives of the Government to state what the difference between one amendment and another is, in my opinion, the amendment of the committee included in the amended motion for a decree is better than that proposed here in this review of the amendments. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to present this amendment a little more thoroughly, in what way the difference is and in what way is it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. This debate, which is taking place here today, is essentially similar to that of the Infrastructure Committee. I must say that I find it very wrong that, as Members, representatives of all citizens, everyone sees only their own garden and wants to arrange something for their own environment. And that's how these debates are organized. What is written in this amendment of the government are actually proposals which have been submitted to the congregation, Maribor Municipality and I think that the Municipality of Koper, although I do not remember. I know for a fact that she has sent us one letter to all Members of Parliament, what she would like to see recorded in this space act. In fact, what they are proposing is nothing more than what is now a fact. This is already a fact today: Maribor is a second city, Maribor is an important hub where they develop, write, high functions, top institutions and important business, cultural services and care activities. He already has all this Maribor as a university city. And if this helps, it will again be written in this space decree, which is already recorded in another chapter. On behalf of our Group of Members, I have said that in this Decision some of the dictatorships will repeat themselves repeatedly. Perhaps the President would ask fellow Members if they go and this meeting will take place outside. [[...]] And second of all, it's about Copra. Koper is also considered to be a seaport and therefore an important hub. We have no concern in our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija, no problem to accept such an amendment, we confirm it because in fact it is only a matter of determining a fact which is currently present in the Republic of Slovenia. I am very happy that it will be written down if it has to be written that Maribor is the second largest city in Slovenia, because in fact the fact is already on its own and all is known. But I would only warn you of a verbal error. It says here that Maribor on the state level is "tazvo" not written "development". We the Prleki word "tazuje" understands the word slightly differently, so I would suggest that it be corrected correctly, that it will be known that Maribor is developing, but not "tazuje" because today it is more, the truth is lovingly said, than the city is indeed developing somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko and Mr Jerovšek have changed order, so I invite you to the word of Mr Jerovšek. Here you go. Mr Sok, Mr Tanko, Mr Butolen and Mr Jerovšek were in order. Now I understand that [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Pache hasn't spoken at all. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u42	When we consider these amendments relating to this spatial decree, it seems important to me to stress that I am aware of the importance of all these main centres in Slovenia, that the government has some special meaning, but I think what is proposed in two different amendments, one by the LDS and one by the amendment to the amendment. If there is an LDS amendment, then I must say that it is very unbalanced what is supposed to be written down for Maribor. In this amendment for Maribor, it should necessarily be complemented in some way by what Mr Rokavec also mentioned that Maribor also has an urban area which should be taxed. This surroundings of Maribor: Lenart, Pesnica, Ruše, Slovenska Bistrica, this makes up one thing. And given the infrastructure situation of this area, I think it is potentially the most promising area in Slovenia. From here, from Slovenska Bistrica, is one of the nodes of the road, the fifth, the tenth corridor, towards Budapest, Vienna, Zagreb. I think this should be taken into account somewhere that this is an extremely important area. And then, as mentioned in the LDS amendment, Ljubljana's capital, together with Domžalci, Grosuplje, Kamnik and Litija, Logatec, forms an urban area, should necessarily indicate in the Maribor amendment that Maribor, together with Slovenska Bistrica, Lenart Rušami, Posnica forms an urban area or even some things. And that's the only thing that would make up a whole that would show how important the center is. Secondly, what I would mention is that this government amendment for my terms is somewhat poorly written in that where it says that Maribor is an important transport centre where high functions develop. I think it should be mandatory, high-level functions of the state. Otherwise, it depends on the air, because in Ljubljana they say, high functions, important for the whole country. Here in Maribor, however, there are no such functions as these, which field, the high functions of the State, must be attributed or important for the whole country. In order to know that Maribor must also receive state functions. So far, they're practically gone. They haven't developed in all these years. When the Secretary of State notes that there are two extremes in Slovenia, that everything is in Ljubljana, and the other that every settlement should have everything. In Slovenia we only face this extreme that everything that is important is concentrated in Ljubljana. In all the programming documents, the government also envisages the extension of such development. I did not get a basis in this document for a government strategy to be something different. Although this is a fairy tale written in many different ways, it follows this objective. For this reason, I ask the government to complete this amendment, with Maribor, to form an urban area together with these centres and to develop the high functions of the state in Maribor or important for the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Butolone's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nicely greeted. We have before us an extremely important document, so to speak, the mother of all strategies, on which, of course, there will be a lot of other things, including state calls and other matters. That's why I'm actually surprised at how to accept this. Given that we have coordinated this strategy for a very long time and practically a very good document has been adopted on the Committee. These amendments, which have now come, despite my client's proposal in the majority, I think they're taking us one step back. So I'm going to say that when we got the strategy on the table, I was extremely disappointed. I was disappointed because I was disappointed, not over politics, but over expertise. I was disappointed because the strategy was prescribed in 1986, 90 percent. I'm knowingly saying that. This strategy did not take into account, followed by development, and did not take into account new statistical facts, as has already been said here today. We wrote inside about where we're going to develop sports courses, but they didn't know they were standing there long ago, and they're standing in smaller places where we're going to develop health care and so on. And there was no way to analyze that this is already in some places. The document was internally contradictory because it wanted to develop certain things, in certain areas that already existed, or developed them so that they were all at odds with themselves. Above all, the spirit of the document was from a past period, because it also directed development in areas where they are not needed in the market economy or should not be directed. I mean economic and business zones. In the economic plan in the market economy, of course, someone will find out where he wants to work. Without this being prescribed by the State, the spatial document prescribes whether or not we can have a business zone somewhere on the outskirts. However, let those market operators determine for themselves whether they want to have or do not want to have. That's why I was so much more pleased when then, through a public debate, as has been said, through the opinions of all political parties, through the first reading, the document that was produced had a much better image. I would also ask my colleagues to remove them from the hall. Madam President, if you will at least listen and remove those who debate here from the Chamber. Have them meet somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u45	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u46	As I said, I was so much more pleased that a substantial movement took place in the drafting of this document and that a document which we confirmed on the committee was good. Here, of course, I would like to thank the minister and his team for their obedience, which is practically greater than the profession. If I only remember how the line was mined at the last board meeting, let's say, scattered construction where it was justified, where it was autochthonous. And yet there, as I said, politics had more obedience, and it essentially supported these things. Now we're partly going back. If I just look at the document, or the amendment under number 4. Thus we developed Novo Gorica in the previous system as a defender of Slovenia, the counterweight of old Gorica. I don't mind them developing like that, but is it now necessary to write it back in. Is it necessary to write down what is the largest city, or is it a statistical information that is only evident and that will not change for a long time? I see some background in these amendments. This background is preparation for some of the calls that have already been made in these two speeches. If you look at the call for economic infrastructure or for business zones, we see that the scoring is higher where it is closer to some national centres, which is at odds with sound logic and is at odds with all regional development and everything else, and there was so much talk. And the response of the Minister, Mr Lahovnik, was clear, everything stems from the strategy. But we've adopted a strategy. And it's logical, in fact, that he was who he was and there's nothing to tell. In a year's time, some external calls will be made on the basis of this strategy, and we will not have anything to tell them again because we have accepted it today. Here I see these amendments that are written very loosely, and I'm afraid they are such a background. I will not support any of these amendments. I'll follow the basic text. I mean the amendments from Chapter 2. I will follow the basic text that we adopted on the Committee because I think it was good enough, as has already been said. Everything you need is trapped in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your word. The debate also opens up views, and I think that these debates, which are, further confirm the importance of this document and, after all, the importance of individual proposals, which are included in each other or any chapter. I have prepared an amendment for the committee meeting because I have proposed that Ribnica and Kočevje, as some part, be classified as areas of national importance. The fact is that the closed area that was in one part of this area was of national importance. Even now, the use of this area, despite the fact that it is no longer such a classically closed area, is still limited, but it is still of national importance because there are certain specific activities that are important for the country. I think it would make sense that this amendment would also be supported on the basis of this. However, I must say that I did not wish to oppose the position of the Ministry with this new proposal, and I do not know who else, but the addition I propose makes sense to me. It makes sense, because it's pointless to use the documents we accept to cause some to get "leaks" in some parts. That's what I think is totally inappropriate. It's a development document. This is a document that is supposed to take certain measures in some areas in some direction, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way. From this point of view, it is reasonable to take these matters into account by taking them into account. All those living in specific local areas know what is essentially the problem in these areas. The suggestions are also such that all these things are tried to be done with them. I think it makes no sense at this stage of development where we are to cover Ribnik with Kočevska. That's not possible. I think it's better to do it the way it is, and that the thing goes complementaryly forward, like both. Development, when a new strategy is adopted, when new documents are adopted, will also be called and overlapped, but at this stage, I think that is impossible. Let us take all the meaningful steps that we can take to make some progress in some areas in a way that will bring all people into this set, not just work. And once again, let me say, let's accept this amendment, which is more or less purely of a textual nature, but for the reasons that many have also said, it is extremely meaningful and it offers and enables different things. It's also kind of manipulative. In the case of personal growth, special restrictions, I think it is pointless that certain areas are excluded if they are not contained in any document, in no content covered and defined as a single area, but are two separate areas. Any document we look at, any content we look at, it's separate. And in this particular case, it is an initiative to link the matter in some way as two areas, and that development in this work is that all the things that are supposed to happen are driven in one and together. Even for all calls, up to all ratings, to all the things that this country is likely to devote to, by weight, individual cases, to individual areas for this to go hand in hand. That's the point. And I think it doesn't make sense that he's even opposed to ideas like this. I think that even Kočevje would not mind if we put it together as Ribniško and Kočevska or especially under Kočevska and Ribniško. I don't think that's any big deal. It is a single area, with single problems, with a single border issue, with degradation of space, etc., for the degradation of the cultural landscape. And I think it makes sense that we connect this once, and at least at this principle level, we remove all of the barriers that currently exist in space. But there's no reason to stop them. And if we can only do that with two words, I think it's the only thing that makes sense that we can do. It's the only thing that makes sense and it doesn't make sense to keep something and stuff covered up, which is rooted very deeply and they're actually hampering the development of a complete area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I am of the opinion that in the LDS Group, we may have thought a little too little about the amendment that was tabled in section 13 of the second chapter of the strategy. Indeed, we should expect that the debate will spread in this direction, and that the Mariborians, perhaps someone else, will want to attach something else that might be possible. When I went to read again the product that we created on the Infrastructure Committee, then I must stress once again that we have done a great deal of work on the Committee, together with the Ministry and the professional services, and we have prepared a text that I think would be the most appropriate support. Everything else is causing debate and perhaps some inconsistence. I understand, of course, Maribor and the Members who are in Maribor or from the Maribor area; I fully understand their reaction in the event that the text of the amendment tabled concerning Ljubljana was adopted as proposed by the amendment. Of course, there may also be others from Kopra, perhaps from Celje, Kranj, Murska Sobota, and so on, from all those cities covered in chapter 13 and all should be complemented. And maybe Kranj should also write down some of the settlements that mean the Kranj area, and Celje should also, and possibly Murski Sobota, somewhere else. Then there can be a quick question as to whether this is the right direction that we have chosen in this spatial strategy to strengthen the power of some centres, or whether it should be easier to say that settlements such as Lithia, Kamnik, Domžale, Grosuplje and so on will join the city of Ljubljana and thus become a very large and powerful city. However, the question is how will Mr Rokavec react in this case and how, say, my colleague Cveta, if Domžal were no longer to be, but this would be part of the city of Ljubljana. I think that with such an amendment, if we accept it without correcting the whole 13th point, it will not work or we will not take a good step in the direction of the good text that we have before us. I will also attach my pot and we will tell everyone that as a resident of the municipality and the town of Brežic I live a little, little, little neglected vis-à-vis Maribor and Kopra, who develop relations with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, and we are located as the last place in Slovenia, and 30 kilometers from the center of Zagreb and their council, we have an option as well as Zasavje that we can connect with the international environment in which we live. So if we go to correct this amendment, please invite me to join you in writing the extension of this amendment and to write that Brežice will develop as a city that has cultivated relations and expanded its influence and is also being built up and upgraded because it is in a narrowly influential area of the neighbouring country. That would be understandable, too, but I draw it all back, and I think it would be best if we adopted the text that we drafted on the Infrastructure Committee today without any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Three parliamentary groups and a government representative, Mr Minister, are one way to postpone the meeting and therefore I am applying Article 73, paragraph 3, for fifteen minutes. The SDS Group wants to amend its amendment, which is in this chapter, so I cannot conclude the debate. There is also a need for discussion with others, so I will interrupt the meeting in 15 minutes, and then there is no problem, I am not closing the debate, because if there are changes to the amendments, possible withdrawals, of course, we will focus on the debate in the framework of the break-up, Mr Rokavec, which some of them would like to talk about, I am not concluding the debate, just 15 minutes' rest. [[...]] [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Look, Madam Vice-President, I would like to discuss the content of this amendment, which is now here, not the one that will be changed. That's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u53	I think the point is, maybe, maybe even [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u54	It is more fair to say who is now reported for discussion on the basis of this material and the debate is closed and can then be upgraded.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u55	It was not the purpose of this interruption, but to discuss what was actually officially tabled, Mr Jerovšek is changing his amendment. These parliamentary groups would like to, so I decided to interrupt the 15-minute meeting as chairman, which will continue at 12.30 p.m., but then I am really asking that we be Members and Members of the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u56	We continue with the adjournment of the 20th item on the agenda. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u57	Dear Chairman! The LDS delegation shall withdraw the amendment referred to in point 2 to the second chapter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia withdraws the amendment under point 2 to the second chapter, which is on page 2 and 3 of the review, which means that the amendment of the government, since the amendment of the parliamentary club was withdrawn, has become irrelevant below 1 on page 2 of the second chapter. Therefore, amendments under 3 and 4 remain in the debate. On the bench you will get - Mr Pece, I will give you the word - on the bench you will get the amended amendment of the SDS delegation group under point 3 to the second chapter. If you don't mind, I'll just read it so we can continue the discussion. So far, the amendment read that in paragraph 15 the word "Kočevje" is replaced by the word "Kočevje-Ribnica", now changes the text by replacing the word "Kočevje" in paragraph 15 with the word "Kočevje-Ribnica" and adding "Semestions of Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Zreče". In paragraph 16, it was earlier that the word "and Ribnik" should be added for the word "Kočevskom" and remained the same in paragraph 17. Thus, we continue to discuss the amended amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group under point 3. And under the 4th Amendment of the LDS. So please focus on these two amendments in the discussion below, because the amendments under 1 and 2 to the second chapter are no longer due to withdrawals. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u59	Dear Members! I think it's honestly unfair what you're doing. You predict the amendment, you say that the amendment has been tabled, so, of course, you're deceiving other parliamentary groups with the same content, and then the amendment, because the other can't put it in, of course, withdraw.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u60	Mr. Pache is not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u61	You did roughly the same thing yesterday at the court office, and you're only doing the same thing by doing that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u62	Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u63	other parliamentary groups to table the same amendments as you, because of the fact that you will not be able to put an end to the procedure, of course. [[...]] It's not only fair to Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u64	Mr. Roast Me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u65	Not only to the whole Styria region, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u66	I'm warning you, you don't have [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u67	unfair to legislative procedure [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u68	There are two reasons, Mr. Pache, that I have taken your word. You're out of time for the debate you reported. That was the first reason, but the main reason was that I opened the debate on the amendment under 3 and 4. The sovereign right of each parliamentary group is to either withdraw an amendment or at a time when the procedure permits it, of course, submits it. And your anger, which you shed on those who have tabled the amendments, now withdraw them, and you have not exercised your right, is inappropriate. I won't give you my word. No, you don't have any more time. Does anyone else want a word about the amendment under 3 and 4. Mr. Jerovšek, please. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! [[...]] We still have a debate on the amendments under 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. In this document, in this proposal for a Posav decree, there has actually been a mistake - in my opinion - that they are not included among the centres of regional importance, both Slovenska Bistrica and Slovenske Konjice. See, Slovenska Bistrica meets all the conditions defined here as the centre of national importance, as it has 15,000 inhabitants, and the municipality with 30,000 inhabitants actually has an extraordinary regional significance. Here we have created an amendment for this important area, Slovensko Bistrica, Konjice, Zreče, as an extremely developing industrial pool with exceptional tourist potentials in the hinterland, because this area belongs to practically the entire southern slope of Pohorje, Rogla, important medical facilities and all that. It would be quite inappropriate for this area, which, last but not least, has extraordinary infrastructure options for development, because there are three exits in this area from the highway so that this area is so deprived in this programming document. I think they all agree. I would also like the opinion of the Minister. I hope that he will affirm to our opinion that this area, Slovenska Bistrica, Konjice, Zreče, certainly belongs to the category of regional importance according to its resources, importance and size. See if we compare ourselves with these places listed here, and this is the case, only in the case of the Slovenian Bistrica for the largest city. I think only the Domžale are a comparable category, but otherwise it is such an important part that I think that fellow Members will understand that in this case there has been a mistake, that this area has been miscategorised and that we will correct this document in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has a word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! So, I ask you to support this amendment of ours, which I will try to justify for three reasons: the demographic development of economic infrastructure and the development of school infrastructure. So, this area, some of the Slovenian Bistrica, Slovenian Konjice and Zreče, is an area where some 60,000 inhabitants live on the south-eastern slope of Pohorje. This is an extremely highly developed tourist infrastructure. There is probably no need to stress that it is here as the most powerful winter and sports center of Rogla, as well as Terme Zreče, and they know a more evolving tourist destination, this is the area of Žičko kartuzija, which is, of course, also included in municipal acts and which has also become an important point of tourists from Europe. In such a way that particular emphasis is placed on how this tourist infrastructure is developed, it is probably not necessary to add. The next point I would like to define here and highlight why such a thing is necessary is the development of the economy. We all know that there are some extremely large Slovenian companies in this area, which are, of course, established on an international scale. It's the Unior of the Goodness, the Comet of the Good News, the GKN of the Good News. If I add Slovenska Bistrica - it would be unnecessary to list all of this. So, it's an extremely strong economic-developed infrastructure. In recent times we can say that high school infrastructure has also become strong, because in Slovenska Bistrica there has been a high school centre for several years now in Slovenska Konjica, a second year of high school as a new school institution and has been in Zreč for quite some time now, I think about twenty years, a high school metal centre and a guest school has been established recently. This means that this area in the development of school infrastructure is also a critical mass, which, as a centre, also comes from students from these nearby areas and is some critical mass. So I believe that it is perfectly justified for this area of Slovenian Bistrica, Slovenian Konjice and Zreč to be included in this second chapter II, chapter as some part of Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenian Konjice and Zreče. And we are confident that if any area in Slovenia, then it certainly deserves this status and, of course, I ask you for support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In order, first, the Secretary of State, Mr Novak, then Mr Lenko and Mr Butolen. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u73	First of all, I must explain to Mr Bevek the question concerning the revised text for Goriška. Let me explain here that the content below this point for Goriška is exactly the same as it was adopted on the committee, there were only vocabulary repairs - two sentences. So the content is the same, but the professional service warned us about this part. Now, on this new proposal from the SDS. I had the opportunity to be in Austria's Styria when Austria entered the European Union and when they had the story of regionalisation as the theme of how to get as much money from Brussels as possible. And they tried to do so that the traditional centers put on one pile, and then some hilly areas to buy and then formed some new areas or small regions that could come out of it. Of course, this speculative proposal of the Austrians failed in Brussels and elsewhere. Now we have from this - why I said this experience - as a benefit that we may have thought back to get more for this southern part of Pohorje, which is of course important in the Slovenian space. The problem that I see with this proposal is that these centres today belong to other influential areas: either partly in the Maribor region, perhaps in the Czech Republic - even slightly more in this second part. In short, they're in different regional areas. More are the areas of Celje or Maribor. That's one reason. The other thing, of course, is that whenever we have regionalisation or some hierarchy of settlements, some number stops by the criterion of size, accessibility and so on. Now, of course, when we stopped at the national centres in front of Kočev, of course, someone stayed behind and it is clear that we were close to the exact settlements you gave us, I will say in this part. However, these cities today do not have connections or the question of whether they could have related functions to form this rank together, I will say regions such as Celje or Maribor in a broader sense. In short, I would not support such a proposal because of this split into several settlements. Of course, this does not deny the importance of this area. I have another explanation. The text itself says in several places "linkages and functions of urban centres of different rank". I am sure that no text makes it impossible that if it is the will to develop, I will say certain things that we cannot develop in the way that local leadership would want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Although I admire Mr Jerovsk's proposal and somehow I understand him that he is ambitious and would like from Slovenia to do something, but I think the proposal is inconclusive because he has simply begun to join such cities as Konjice, Zreča and so on, which we know do not belong at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'd like to take this opportunity once again to warn you that we're at some strange stage in reception. This strategy has been adopted for an awful long time, as has been said, and has been sent to the congregations. The municipalities of Slovenska Bistrica, Konjice, Zreče had the opportunity to make these comments, and it was also said that the Secretary of State had visited all or invited all parliamentary groups in particular, not only as usual. Also, all the parliamentary groups have their representatives on the committees - it is true that yours were usually not there - and we could put this on time, now we are getting it on the table and we are delaying the matter. However, it concerns itself formally, I mean, it is not substantively controversial, but it is formal. Where you were, why you didn't want to work, simply put. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u79	Firstly, I am a little sorry, Mr Butolen, that until the legal procedure, the legislative procedure, is complete, it is possible to build it up at all times. I agree that the mayors of these cities have fallen asleep, but this is not the reason that the image of Slovenia, these regional centres should not be as it deserves. And I must also tell the Secretary of State - I think he will agree - that this argument, which he stressed is that the problem of other influential areas, including Domžale, Kamnik, belongs to the influential area of Ljubljana, is also mentioned. Slovenian Bistrica, Slovenian Horsemen have exactly the same role against Maribor as Domžale. Here they are developing craft companies and so on. This is - I say that it is an extremely promising zone in the Slovenian scale. And don't be so superficial that you wouldn't admit it. I regret that there has been a mistake here, that this area has been mislisted. It's just to fix it, to give it where it belongs. And what my colleague Petan and I have already discussed - this area has all the functions that go on to do so, it is rapidly evolving due to its extraordinary infrastructure position. Slovenian Bistrica has two exports from the motorway due to this important geographical position, Horses have their exports, secondary education is developing because this is where the population is growing. And I'll add this. It would be a historical injustice if the Slovenian Bistrica were not listed here. I must say that at a time when Slomšek was considering where to transfer the bishop, there were three equivalent centres in his head - Celje, Slovenska Bistrica, Maribor. He decided for Maribor, then he accelerated this development for Maribor with this. Do not take the right to compete equally with other cities, which are significantly smaller and less important, literally, but I do not realize them and do not take the right to be listed in this list and that they have these powers. However, from the approach of some rationality and normal coverage of Slovenia with these centres you must admit that it is absolutely necessary to introduce this element as a regional centre, this is a reality today and you cannot ignore it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I would only say this briefly, that in this area there are more connections in Slovenia, Konjic and Zreč than we might think. Just an example. It has fewer than 2,000 inhabitants, and 3,000 people are employed in the North. This is said to be the day-to-day migration from all over this region; and it is. Next thing you know, I'll tell you what I want to say. This particular area of south-eastern Pohorje, Zreče also belongs to Vitanje, Konjice and part of the Slovenian Bistrica practically nowhere. Maribor is beating him up, Celje is going to warm him up. And practically, if they need us for any statistics, they'll take us with them, or else they won't, and because of that, I think the definition of "community" is right. I think that this is the right thing to do, not to demand any other region or propose a region, because we know that we have no conditions, but the mentioned thing, which I think is the right one, and it is also a practical and life-altering dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much. And Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u83	Just a word of comment. Here we also have written in one amendment according to the proximity of the borders and there are also written three places - Trbovlje, Hrastnik and Zagorje. I must say that the proposaler is very inconsistent in certain parts, because this has nothing to do with the border, such as in other areas, where there is also an interest in connecting them to you now, and he opposes. I think that's unacceptable. It makes sense that these things are somehow integrated into this proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u85	I would like to say a few words about the SDS amendment and I would like to draw attention to the following. At present, in the Kočevska area, I believe that the text contained in the Rapporteur has been adequately resolved. In fact, Ribnica is envisaged as the regional centre of Kočevje and, of course, is also referred to as the regional area as the wider area of Kočevska. Everything is also in line with the current situation. I myself have advocated that this area, of course, be given a higher status to discuss perhaps the centres of national importance. The strategy states that this allows conditions for the creation of a centre of national importance. I see that if we were to share regional centres in two places today, there would be again problems that we have actually met in this area all this time, when there was no agreement on how to proceed. It makes no sense, therefore, that we are returning all things somehow back to the beginning and that this hierarchy as Fishermen of the Medo-Centre and Kočev as a regional more appropriate and effective solution for the area of this part of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u87	I will only address myself in the sense that I see a good solution in the amendment proposal under point 2 of the second chapter in this sense, because it is actually following or looking for solutions based on the actual situation. This is a document that is a document of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u88	Mr. Brenčič, maybe you weren't in the hall. We are no longer discussing the amendment under 1 and 2, but only under 3 and 4. The amendment under 2 was withdrawn and under 1 was withdrawn. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u89	No, Madam Vice President. I object procedurally. That is why I first applied for the debate to base my debate on a document which was officially tabled to me as a Member and has not yet been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u90	Half-past one, Mr. Brenčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u91	I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u92	He's gone, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u93	Yes, of course, I couldn't give my content as a Member, positively to this amendment because you interrupted, before I got the word. Now I don't have it anymore because you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u94	Mr. Brenčich! I would understand this zeal if I were the amendment of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u95	Okay. I will only say this; we have only one capital and Ljubljana can't be Celje, but it can't be Gorica, and it can't be Maribor. These are functions that also condition in the spatial document a starting point for some kind of creative upgrading of environmental centres. From this title, it will be necessary for Celjan to enter Ljubljana sooner or later to connect Vrhnika with the tram line, as well as the Domžals. Therefore - due to functions, due to functions - Ljubljana has a completely different starting point and some of you locally politicize a good proposal, a state-important proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Perhaps Mr Minister will explain to you now that if this was not accepted in such a form, where else is it certainly written in this way, as you imagine, as well. My word to the Minister, mag. The digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. On that last one. I fully agree with Mr Brenčič and the text as it was would be useful to create a common municipal infrastructure, for example the railway he mentioned. This seems to me to be the best type of joint infrastructure of these cities mentioned in this amendment. Unfortunately, however, this amendment has caused too much controversy. I think there is no serious damage because it has been withdrawn, because all these functions in other places in the strategy are nevertheless highlighted. Here they were really nicely summarised, I must say, beautifully summarised, also for Koper and a little less beautiful for Maribor - there were some shortcomings in the text, but since it was withdrawn, there was no fundamental damage because these functions were written elsewhere in the strategy, more dispersed, for individual things. As for the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, I would just like to say that. I understand this efforts by Mr Jerovšek to play the role of Slovenian Bistrica, but I would like to say that this should be done with caution. The word 'joint' is defined in the strategy in the concept, meaning a collection of different settlements complementing each other's functions. For example, the beautiful example of some things is Koper, Izola, Piran, and you may not know that Koper is actually a very small place compared to other places, but of course the presence of the port and some people with Izola and Piran give him a central position that raises him to the place of the national centre of international importance in this strategy. Well, whatever. Slovenian Bistrica, Slovenian Konjice and Zreče are not three places that complement each other's functions, but are three places that duplicate each other's functions. I understand that you want to find some formula for how to write some special position for these three places, but this formula is unfortunately not the word "compartment". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Well, I can say that I am certainly one of those Members of this National Assembly who knows these areas very well, but I can certainly say that it is significantly better than many from the top of the Slovenian Government who determine what is in this area or whether it may be something or not. If anywhere, then in these places Slovenska Bistrica, Konjice and Zreče is certainly saying the term "compartment". It is true, however, that in the past it has been shown several times, unfortunately that, of course, the Liberal Democracy does not favour these areas and I do not want such disfavor, personal disfavor, the work of the Slovenian space in the framework of the spatial development strategy to have an important weight and, of course, a decisive role in the decision-making process of this amendment. Therefore, of course, the only logical and sensible thing to do is to complement this, because this will only make the strategy meaningful. If not, it will be for one part of the Slovenian space, so for these, it will be meaningless.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I'm afraid your Group of Members is running out of time. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. I see no reason now that the congregations have not responded to the question of Members here today. After all, we are Members here, we have to look at this, and we have to reconcile this issue somehow, so that it will be accepted so that it will be fair for all Slovenian places. And I also find it difficult to understand how this, let's say that Slovenian Bistrica is not the centre of regional importance, but the city from which I come is. I don't understand that either. And, of course, I would like to ask and suggest that if Members can help to make this decision, with an amendment, which I have initially said is significantly better than the draft. I could even claim that it is very good and that it can be improved by such amendments; that we can actually support it, but not that we are insisting on a starting point now, if it is not the right time. I do not know why the municipal administration in Slovenska Bistrica or in Slovenska Konjica did not respond, but others did. So, here's the amendment now, and I don't know what the big mistake would be right now, or why the opposition would be, or if you can tell me the difference, why one does, or one doesn't. I think that Slovenska Bistrica and Slovenian Horsemen certainly deserve this to be included in the centres of regional importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to come by because I would like to say that Slovenian Bistrica, Slovenian Horsemen and Zreča are historically together, somehow. Once, once upon a time, when there was perhaps not one of you at all, we were under the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. Then we were in Bistrica and Horses, and now we're divided. We have done a lot in the past period together and we could also do a lot more in common if we could then, as a common unit, even as some people, also apply to various programmes and so on. I think that people who move from one congregation to another to jobs are very connected. Only if this amendment is accepted could they have a positive impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the second chapter. And I am opening the debate on chapter 3, which is that we have amendments. The first is the New Slovenia Group, under the 2 SDS members and under the 3rd LDS. Who wants a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. And I am opening a debate on chapter 4, which is one amendment. This is the amendment of the LDS Club of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. And another amendment to Chapter 5 of the LDS. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of All right! If no one wants to discuss it, it concludes the debate. I very much ask Members and Members to come to the Chamber because we will move to a decision, as it has been decided today, so that we can first discuss all the amendments, now we are deciding on them and finally we are deciding on the motion for a decree in its entirety. We can try. As you know, the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group has announced obstruction. First, we will vote on the remaining two amendments to Chapter 2, first of all on the amended - the amendment to the introduction, I apologize. First, about the amendment to the introduction. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we go to the vote on the amended amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter under 3. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this amendment because it brings the content that is urgently needed. If this were not the case in these places, some of the Slovenian Bistrica, Konjica, Zreče, would have made a historic mistake and a historical injustice. In fact, it has already been mentioned that these places were long years after World War II in the common district, which we were ideally located in Poljčany, symbolising that these places were very connected, that this is a single area that has a lot of connection from history and today. Between these places, more than 1000 workers are transported from these places from one end to Comet Zreče, then from Konjice to Inpol and so on; that in the tourist area there are joint plans for the winter center of the Three Kings and Rogl, that I also belong to the church on Areh - only to be explained to you. This area also includes Boč and that this is important, this function. And when we talk about what the connection is: from Terme Zreče buses drive daily to view the historical sights of art history about Slovensko Bistrica, which is extremely rich. It is said that the Church of St. Joseph with its paintings, the Church of Šmartno, is a single area where they found the oldest Romance paintings that re-described the cultural history of Europe, as Dr. Shebel, an art historian, said, and that these links were extremely strong, so that all the arguments they tried to counteragreement fell. So I ask you, fellow Members and fellow Members, let us be honest, and let us also place this substance in this set of equivalent centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. So, Your Honor, I must say that I do not claim that the Minister must know everything, because it is clear that no - no one expects it. But I think if there's a connection, really, like some kind of area that lives together, that's what's happening in this area. My friend Jerovšek has already mentioned this. I would say that maybe this connection has been more active lately because of all of these activities that are here, and this will be even more in perspective. The fact is that day migration is extremely strong. And in fact, it's like a closed area, because that's where the configuration is. Thus, people are bound, in economic terms, in this area as a whole. Secondly, in fact, it's even more promising, but it's touristic. The fact is that there is such a strong tourist infrastructure that other activities must also be linked so that tourism can be sufficient to all these conditions. This is mainly in the field of food, because only this narrow Pohorje area can not only provide so much food and so it relies on a wider area and practically the whole area is trying and helping these tourist centres on Rogla and in the West to meet those daily needs of food, those that are not usually imported. I can say what you need every day. So, if there's a place, then there's a real connection. I'm not gonna say where it doesn't exist, but it's in the papers. But we have this and it's perfectly natural that I expect you to view it as some kind of thing because real life shows it. Thank you very much. And that's why I'm asking for your support, and I'm going to vote for it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic, an explanation for the vote. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u109	I will vote in favour of this proposal, not only because I come from this area, but because I know that in this area all these municipalities, as well as plenipotentiaries and these municipalities, are already very well involved in a positive way. That is why I think this would further support their cooperation and development, which in Konjica a few years ago has been very lagging behind, but now it has begun to develop tourism and would greatly help us to develop evenly in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Can we move on to a decision? Yes, you can. We therefore vote on the amended amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 20 votes against 30. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the LDS MP club under order number 4. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the three amendments to chapter three. Under 1 we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 17 votes against 34. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Under 2 we vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to chapter three. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under the 3rd LDS Club to chapter three. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to Chapter 4, which is proposed by the LDS Parliamentary Club. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to Chapter 5 of the same motions. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I ask the representatives of the government and the legal and regulatory services, have there been any disagreements over the amendments adopted? No, no, no. We can therefore go to the vote on the proposal for a decree on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry very much for their cooperation, you, honourable Members, equally thank you very much and have a nice weekend. Goodbye.
