ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Jože Ašič, Dr Miha Brejc, Ljubo Germič, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Ivan Kebrič, Franz Lenko, Borut Pahor, Alojz Peterle and Franz Kangler. We're moving on to 24. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE 9. REVENUE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THE YEAR 2003 The 9th regular report was presented by the Ombudsman for consideration, whom I welcome very well with his colleagues. I also welcome the representatives of the government, the minister, the secretary of state and the secretaries and the other present! I give my word to the Ombudsman for further explanation of the report. Here you go, Mr. Keeper.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members, Ministers and other representatives of the Government, honourable President, I congratulate you on your election! First of all, I would like to thank you for including the Ombudsman's report for 2003. Also for proper consideration by the Internal Policy Committee. The time reserved for today's debate also shows that the debate will be long, and I am sure it will also be exhaustive. Nor can I pass the government's reaction to this report; it has produced the most comprehensive opinion so far, in which it has largely explained the Ombudsman's observations. Above all, it is important that this opinion is accompanied by information on the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly in the course of its consideration of the previous report. Although we cannot be satisfied with everything yet, this indicates a great shift in understanding the importance of human rights, the Ombudsman's institutions and, last but not least, the National Assembly. I will not be long and will not explain the contents of the report in detail, because I am sure that you have all read it, because I have only briefly taken the main conclusions and, above all, highlighted the problems and errors in the functioning of the country. What specific innovations in human rights violations we have not seen this year, which is also right. Errors from previous years are repeated, even because institutions are responding too slowly to the Ombudsman's demands, although I must admit that in many areas the situation is improving. Non-response to the Ombudsman's demands is less than years ago, but there are still some institutions that need too much encouragement to respond. In doing so, I would particularly like to highlight the state's attorney and some ministries or all of them, for education, work, family, social affairs, environment and space and energy. The reform of the administration gives the impression that things are improving slowly. Emphasis will need to be given to the local aspect. Improvements will need to be speeded up, but quality needs to be taken into account. In the area of restrictions on personal freedom, the story is the same as it has been for years, especially in the case of occupied prisons, and thus the type of other problems caused by overoccupation. In doing so, I think of the threat to the health of prisoners, the lack of medical and psychiatric care, the poor safety of convicts, and the possibility of religious rituals, and I miss the increased activity of the government office for religious communities. In particular, I must mention what we mention every year, the Law on Mental Health, including the rights of patients, is still missing. Even in the field of justice, things have not improved more markedly. The judicial backlog is still number one, and nothing shows that anything will change in the short term. If, on a conditional basis, we could accept permanent judicial decisions in some problems that are not of vital importance to the individual’s fate, we would find it difficult to take a delay in deciding on the fate of children. Children must not wait for years for the decision of the competent authorities to decide on their rights guaranteed by the State and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and no one needs a late decision. However, I am not sure that in proceedings where children's rights are decided, there is always a reason for slowness only in the overload of judges. I believe that often the reason for delaying the decision is the fear of responsibility for the fate of children and their parents. However, since part of this year's decision on children's rights has been transferred from social work centres to the courts, I am afraid that the next Ombudsman's report will draw attention to the deteriorating situation in this area. Therefore, we will continue to strive to ensure that decision-making on children's rights is a priority in practice and not just on paper. I reiterate that all authorities are obliged to serve the Ombudsman with all the information required, whether it makes sense to them or not. We will insist on this, not because of caprices, but because of the rights of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia to live in the most pleasant environment. This also applies to certain professional associations, their honorable judgments and various other disciplinary bodies, although they are not state bodies. But when the law gives them certain powers and powers, their work is subject to public oversight. Your Honor! Finally, I can say that we have not seen any special changes in the functioning of the state authorities in the past year, as another problem which was previously latently present has emerged in the past year. So, the issues of non-discrimination, I'm not going to mention them, because we all know them very well. It seems that we have lived too long in the belief that intolerance is not a Slovenian problem and this has surprised us. But to prevent intolerance is the responsibility of the State with all its institutions [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by positive measures to eliminate sources of intolerance, in particular by giving each individual the opportunity to participate creatively in society. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u3	Mr. Keeper, thank you for further explanation of the report. The ninth annual report was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for recommendations from the National Assembly. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Maximilian Lavrinca, to present the report of the Committee
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u4	Nice greetings to all, to the president, to the guardian, to the colleagues and to the colleagues! So you have received the report and I would therefore not repeat what is stated in the report on the implementation of the Ombudsman at the committee meeting itself, but I must say that when you have received the report, two should be highlighted in this consideration of the report. First. That the Committee’s professional service, together with the Ombudsman, prepared the matter so that it could be discussed in a truly quality manner and that we had, in a number of different chapters, as they then adopted, prepared draft recommendations. That's the first one. Second. It should also be noted that we have all been in some time of distress together, because the Ombudsman's report was a wish, as well as a promise by the Head of the National Assembly, that the Ombudsman's report should be considered in this mandate. After all, the credits are for what is good, and it builds up for what is bad, which is intended in that part that relates to the work of the legislative branch of power that is intended for us, not later, so a new reference. It is necessary to give the Ombudsman the emphasis to remain in the ears for a little while. The report is extensive, but not because there would be so many violations that need to be dealt with, but rather because the Ombudsman has made an additional effort this time to prepare as closely as possible a thorough review of the work as possible and of what is, of course, the scope of his work. After that, the Ombudsman also told the Committee that he was satisfied with the government's broad opinion. For not only does the government try, but it also assesses the Ombudsman to remedy the shortcomings that are the subject of his reports in past times, so the government is also trying to deal seriously with each other and also to say how it will solve the problems that are yet to be solved. I'm going to say that it was quite a bit, so let me say, the hard word spoken at the expense of the Office of Religious Communities, about its work and even in the debate itself, is quite well supported. Of course, one of the key points is still, or one of the more serious problems, which are systemic problems, is judicial backlogs, which no one has disputed, of course, since we are familiar with the situation in this area. Similarly, the President of the Supreme Court, who was with us, did not object, but he drew attention to some, because I say, of the movements that have been made in this area and also to some of the successful actions that are being carried out; for example, the information of the land book and the like. He was also, of course, not fully prepared to accept the criticism written at the expense of the lawyers, the President of the Bar, but I think it is clear from the communication that we have also discussed these matters. On the basis of the debate and as I said in the introduction, on the basis of the drafts prepared, the Committee has adopted, as you can see, a large number of recommendations, i.e. a large number of recommendations. If you go to see them in more detail, you will see that the recommendations are very bold to say so. Courage in this sense to strictly follow the Ombudsman's proposals and initiatives. So I'm going to say that the government and all of us who are going to deal with this area or are going to do it are going to do a lot of work. To conclude, the Committee has also decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt this report and, of course, together with the recommendations that are before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Lavrinz. I give the floor to the government's representative, Karl Erjavec, State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, will give the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! The Government has examined the Ombudsman's 2003 report thoroughly and thoroughly. We are aware that the Ombudsman's report reflects, in particular, the problems faced by individuals in relation to the State and are usually the result of insufficiently defined legislation or the reason why the rules are misinterpreted by the authorities. At times, however, the problems faced by individuals may result from inappropriate conduct by public officials. The government is certainly responsible for the good functioning and management of the country. As we are aware of this, the Ombudsman's reports are being taken very seriously. Also on the basis of the Ombudsman's findings, we want to improve the level and standard of respect for human rights. The Ombudsman estimates that there is a growing awareness that public authorities must act primarily as a service for citizens and citizens. We are also pleased to see the Ombudsman's attitude towards the Ombudsman and to take his warnings into account in the preparation of normative solutions. The Ombudsman points out in his assessment that there is a lack of systematic regulation of the situation of Roma and a coordinated policy in this area. Let me say that the government is aware that the solution to this problem cannot be left to local communities alone, so the government will or has already drawn up a strategic plan to approach this issue. An analysis has already been commissioned on the situation of Roma in the Republic of Slovenia, which is being prepared by the National Affairs Institute, which will provide answers to questions, whether a specific system law for the question of Roma is needed or whether this area should be regulated in sectoral laws. On the basis of the analysis, we will also look for the best possible opportunities for Roma inclusion in the social environment. Further, let me say that a strategy has been adopted on the integration of Roma pupils into the education and education system. In addition, a specific expert working group was set up at the level of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs to identify security issues and examine legislation in this area. With regard to discrimination in the field of State financing of religious communities, failure to resolve their open issues, the government is thus not fully in agreement. Let me say that a draft law on religious freedom and a religious community is already in place to properly regulate this area. With regard to human and child rights education, the government has already approached the preparation of a strategic document that will comprehensively define human and child rights education activities. We are preparing this together with schools and NGOs. By implementing the Action Plan in 2005. The government agrees with the Ombudsman's finding that it is necessary to adopt a law that will fully regulate the field of mental health. Let me say that the Ombudsman has already met with the Minister of Health, who is present and will tell more about this meeting where they have specifically agreed on a specific law. I should also like to say that the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a law on unfair proceedings which has already been sent to interdepartmental coordination, and with this amendment we want to partially eliminate the inconsistencies identified by the decision of the Constitutional Court. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the situation is well known to say that the courts currently manage the current situation, but of course they do not manage the backlogs of previous years. The National Assembly has recently passed a law on the Court, which is intended to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary. In the area of housing policy, it notes the problems of bullying tenants living in denationalised apartments and the lack of support by the State to municipalities for the construction of social housing. In the opinion that we have given, we tell exactly how the government is going to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These problems. [[...]] With regard to the prevention of domestic violence, let me say that there is a law in preparation, that an interdepartmental group is already established and that we expect to put this law into practice in a short time. Let me just say that we have prepared comprehensive answers to the Ombudsman's report. By agreeing with some conclusions, some problems are already solved, some are being resolved. However, with regard to other problems that remained unresolved, the authorities were determined to meet with the competent ministers. And, as I have already said, some meetings have already been held, for example, with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Labour, waiting for a meeting with the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of the Interior. The Government has no comments on the recommendations adopted by the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, my colleague, Vojko Celigoj, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u8	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, the Ombudsman with his co-workers, the Minister with the Madam Secretary, the distinguished colleague and colleagues! We have carefully examined, as in every year, the regular report of the Ombudsman. We have given special attention to the part of the report that concerns the older generation, as well as other problems that the Ombudsman is pointing to, we have not neglected. The Ombudsman correctly notes the alarming situation of the older generation. Not only do most people deteriorate in living and material conditions, but also the personal situation of pensioners and other elderly people are worrying. We cannot help but overlook the fact that more and more pensioners are left to themselves, whether the family does not feel solidarity with them and, on the other hand, there is a lack of room in the homes for the elderly or they are too expensive. All of this can lead to social exclusion, which can be fatal for an elderly person. We believe that we urgently need a special body in the country, which will also be comprehensively at the executive and institutional level, with the blessing of the State to care for the benefits and interests of the elderly. In addition, voluntary work should be encouraged, which in our view would certainly help to make the elderly feel even better in society. The situation is also worrying about the protection of personal data. Despite the adoption of a new law, we are concerned in the DeSUS Group about the fact that sometimes the law itself gives broad powers to obtain a variety of data. The information obtained by law may also be made available to the private sector. In particular, the case in the case of insurance companies is of particular concern in the case of the elderly, as well as in the case of other citizens. The individual shall, by signing the typical contract "and Bianca", allow the insurance undertaking to have an insight into its health status at any time. Otherwise, if a person wants insurance, he doesn't have any other options. On the basis of the data, insurance undertakings shall decide on the amount of the insurance. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such a system inevitably leads to discrimination. We have been drawing attention to the backlog of the DeSUS Group for all years. The state of the judiciary is not jealous, which sometimes the judiciary itself admits. However, we believe that the partial measures we are witnessing today are not effective enough. In fact, problems are already starting with the admission of judicial training students for judicial work. Unanimous records and too long a waiting list of a number of instigators turn away from work in the judiciary, which only shows the inflexibility of the judiciary, which, despite the fact that the problem is being realized, does not eliminate it. Thus, in the field of judicial backlogs, although everyone facing justice today is often disappointed by the functioning of the judiciary. But things are changing too slowly. We do not deny that there is a great reason for the backlog of the non-discipline of the parties involved, but in Slovenian law we also know about the absence of the parties, which is called compulsory detention. In our view, it should be served several times by the courts. DeSUS welcomes the Ombudsman's efforts to improve the situation of people deprived of their personal freedom. Often, this group of people is pushed to the brink or wants to be invisible. Just because we close our eyes doesn't mean there's no problem. Within the scope of the options, it is necessary to ensure the effective implementation of all rights guaranteed by law. We know that such people need to be reintegrated into society, and it is their duty to help them. Human rights must be the main concern in every society, their status must be constantly checked and for some reason, for example, efficiency must not be ignored. It is necessary to seek balance over and over again and not to allow ourselves to be affected by it more than is necessary. We are pleased with the report by the Ombudsman, who is carrying out constant supervision with him. Regardless of the Ombudsman’s limited power [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that his comments are increasingly taken into account. [[...]] In the end, we thank the Ombudsman and his small team for their efforts and contribution to greater respect for human rights. We'll support the report with affection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you, Comrade Cheligoy. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party will be presented by colleague Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to Mr. Hanzku and the other guests! So this year we may also be in the past, perhaps because of the end of the term of office of this National Assembly, and it appears that the Ombudsman's most extensive report is on human rights. As well as the government's most extensive response, which is a fact that needs to be particularly welcomed. In my opinion and I hope that I am not mistaken, one of the reasons for this is that the situation of human rights in Slovenia is improving, that it is paying more and more attention to less visible violations and that we take this topic seriously. Although the Ombudsman is not so optimistic in his report, he is not satisfied and so is because "that one violation is too much". This was last October in one of the journals the address of an article that reported on the consideration of the Ombudsman’s report in this Chamber. Another daily newspaper then decided on the title "Rights on the Service". Has anything been observed since last year in this area? The Keeper says it is, but not enough. That last year the work of the Ombudsman, in addition to resolving complaints from individual initiators, also marked problems that were partially covered in previous years, since we were not aware of them as a whole. The most resounding are certainly the regulation of the situation of the deleted and the right of the Muslim religious community to its own religious facility. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are pleased that last year the Ombudsman paid particular attention to domestic violence and, above all, violence against children. Regrettably, he found a situation similar to that in many other areas: ignorance, even the ignorance of society, the evasiveness of institutions to act, and the transfer of responsibility to others. In order to address this problem, appropriate systemic solutions should be sought to prevent and address domestic violence. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will submit the Family Violence Act to the National Assembly this year; obviously not in our mandate, but I hope that the Ministry will keep its promise regardless of the elections. If anywhere, then at least policy in this area should be irrelevant. One of the better things, if I may put it this way, occurred in the hearing of the Ombudsman's report when, as we read from the report of the President of the Bar, he made a fundamental point of view with regard to the report. He pointed out that he felt some discomfort from the lawyer's chamber when the guardian addressed one of the chapters "The crow's eyes don't rule out". Lawyers are obviously of the opinion that it is not appropriate to refer to such language in official documents, since lawyers are lawyers who are properly and responsibly engaged in their business. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that this address is more than on the spot and that, according to the Ombudsman's report, the title "The crows of the eyes don't exclude" could be used elsewhere; these areas of the Ombudsman are fully listed and explained. Let me summarize a few words of the Ombudsman: "The type of finding of violations from previous years still holds. Carelessness towards the problems of people in distress is still strongly present in the work of the state authorities, which is mainly reflected in avoiding responsibility and transferring decisions to others." Some of the most receptive problems have been the result of this kind of behavior. The institutions were also aware of the problem because of the Ombudsman’s warnings, but they did not act if it was under the authority of others. The Ombudsman thus notes that it is still argued that some institutions use more energy to avoid decisions and to find excuses for non-action than to solve problems. Moreover, they often oppose the professional decisions of other authorities, only so that they do not have to carry out their responsibilities. These cases are, of course, the enforcement of decisions of social work centres in administrative units concerning children. Social debate also requires a more decisive policy for the common development of the society as a whole, which will focus on the active involvement of all groups of people in development. This type of discrimination is mainly indicated by groups of people who are somehow "unproductive"; these are disabled women with small children, old, sick, Roma and others. It often seems that the country is using monetary social transfers only to keep marginal groups of people at the margins rather than to involve them in society. The attitude of the State, as well as of the legislator towards human rights and the rule of law, also shows that at the end of the year, at the end of the year, as many as ten decisions of the Constitutional Court, which established the unconstitutionality of laws, had been waiting for the oldest of them to be enforced for eight years. That is also why we will support all the recommendations proposed in the Young Slovenia Party, that is to say all 26, again, because things are unfortunately repeating. Allow me to read last October's press release, specifically dated 29.10.2003, which discusses the five-hour debate of the National Assembly on the Ombudsman's report for 2002. Address: "Right to Service". Subtitle: "Recommendation by the Government to formulate an anti-discrimination policy strategy and explore the possibility of creating an independent institution." Now it is not known, of course, because the first of today's recommendations, which will surely be adopted, says: The government should, in the framework of the anti-discrimination policy, in view of the great social dispersion, lead a more decisive policy of joint development of the whole society, which will aim primarily to actively involve all groups of people in development. So, things are, unfortunately, repeating themselves. So there is nothing more to say than what we have said to the desirers of our Group of Members. Only the technical treatment of the report and the correction of errors as in a service of some kind is not sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you, Comrade Levich. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by colleague Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, co-workers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The ninth regular annual report, prepared by the Ombudsman in spring, allows us to look at the area in this mandate, although at the last meeting, because an institution that protects an individual in contact with public authorities, holders of public powers, local authorities and which supervises their functioning does not have powers of government. His work is public and implies the possibility of out-of-court protection of the rights of individuals and his regular annual report is a form of communication with the public, in fact a picture that is presented to both the national assembly and the government. What, then, is the 2003 report different from previous reports? The report is still quite extensive, but, as the Ombudsman himself, not because of the occurrence of serious human rights violations, but because of more precise work, which includes addressing issues that concern not only the resolution of complaints but also the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, the fact remains that even in 2003 there were problems that the Ombudsman had been alerting for many years. If I just list a few of them: the question of the Roma community, its integration into society, where only punishment and social transfers are certainly not enough. It is important that this should be resolved by the State and it is not good for everything to be left to local communities. Many warnings about discrimination have indeed been raised by the government to advocate the principle of equal opportunities, but what if it is not an independent body? The Law on Mental Health has not yet been adopted. The request for a trial within a reasonable period shall be repeated each year. There are growing problems in the area of social housing, and a whole range of other issues are being drawn from year to year. It is true, however, that the Ombudsman prepared further special reports on the issue of deleted and domestic violence and directed the way to a solution. The Government has prepared an opinion on the report and information on the implementation of the recommendations to the National Assembly adopted at the time of consideration of the eighth regular report for 2002 of which there were as many as 25. It is clear that the government has taken action in some areas, but acute problems remain that should be resolved. Fortifying the government to resolve individual matters if they are not yet and under-integrating individual ministers with the Ombudsman is already an annual standstill. The recommendations made by the State Assembly to the government at the time of its consideration of the report, which is not being reduced in number, show that preparedness is still far too low. Individual problems should be solved once and for all, unlocked and removed from the agenda rather than be stumbled by the guardian from year to year. This year's recommendations also show that there are still many irregularities in all nine areas, both in respect of respect for human rights, constitutional rights, protection of personal data, restrictions on personal freedom, in justice, police procedures, in administrative matters, health insurance, the protection of children's rights to domestic violence. The recommendations in the form of a government and government that acts in a particular area are all too repulsive, as state authorities and institutions do not do enough to remedy the infringements. The Ombudsman's report shows us the image of our country and society in the field of human rights protection, which we are also trying to create as Members. Therefore, we cannot only see it as an incentive, but also as a reference to further efforts, as well as confirmation of the opposition's dissatisfaction with citizens and citizens with regard to the poor work of state authorities and institutions. The political will to change the situation is still too small, even though the government is trying to convince us of the opposite with its extensive opinion of the report. The fact is, sometimes the Ombudsman hears differently than he would like to hear. We like to say the guardian's work won't run out. There are new problems, new areas or societies that are more sensitive in their perception, but it seems too often that the country of another institution is a lot more deaf and blind and more likely to turn away than to step away or two from its citizens and citizens. The recommendations, as such, cannot be disputed and opposed, but should be followed by measures that would be effective in addressing problems. The State or the power structure, by its power and will, changes the rules of conduct and violates or does not adhere to the laws adopted. It does not act decisively to protect people from the will of violators, causing fear, mistrust, and uncertainty. The issue of human rights is not only in the provisions, regulations and laws, but also in the light of the principles of justice and good governance, which is why the important relationship between the State and its authorities and its employees in this extensive apparatus with regard to people, citizens and citizens is important and has sometimes justified enough to make the injustice go away and become less painful. We therefore have yet another list of matters and recommendations. But it takes political will and serious work to change. What the government will be able to do in these months is a question. Most of the issues in this area, and in the field of human rights, are certainly waiting and must wait for better operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you, colleague Maja Zupan. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by a colleague of mags. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected Ombudsman with colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the importance of the Ombudsman's annual periodic report from his office is increasing, since, as one who protects an individual in contact with national authorities, local authorities and public authorities and as one who supervises their functioning, it is a criterion for the proper and correct conduct of authority in relation to an individual. Therefore, it is all the more important that the ninth periodic report is subject to consideration at the national assembly before the end of the term of office. So much more because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also taken care of a timely response report. Nevertheless, we are dealing with a problem, which is the distance of time covered by the problem, because, in the meantime, the problem may have been overcome by changes in the way in which the solution is handled or amended legislation. That is what the government's response report points out. However, we fully agree with the Ombudsman that it is unacceptable that the type of things in the report are repeated year after year because some things are improving too slowly, not enough or not at all. Let me only draw attention to the tenants of denationalised dwellings and injustice, as is true of the Ombudsman who was brought to them by the State and to which we in the United List of Social Democrats have been particularly alerted by the Special Ombudsman's report, when we expected our initiatives to be taken into account, but it shows that this will be decided by the international body. It should be noted, in particular, that, when the Ombudsman stressed the duty of the State to ensure that all citizens enjoy a level playing field in their lives, to implement the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the documents adopted without delay, he also stressed the effects of the nine-year work of the Ombudsman's institution. As a result of the conduct of the type of institution, he has seen in his work an increasingly serious attitude of the authorities towards this institution. More importantly, it is important to respect the rights of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, however, it is still possible to find completely opposite cases. Still a perceptible indifference to the problem of people in distress shows that it has not yet penetrated the awareness that public authorities must become, as has already been said, a service for citizens and citizens, even though it is a group of people who remain at the edge of the development of the whole society. These are especially disabled, women with small children, old, sick, Roma. We therefore reiterate the responsibility of the National Assembly to impose on the authorities, by adopting appropriate recommendations, the remedying of the irregularities identified and the exact weighting of the recommendations adopted over the past years, as it cannot be overlooked that individual problems have not yet been addressed. In the UK Group, we are aware that the cases under consideration do not reflect a complete picture of all the critical points in which the individual has not been properly and properly treated in contact with state authorities and individual holders of public authority at different levels. That is why it seems so important to us that the work of the Ombudsman is not only limited to the resolution of complaints by individual initiators, but the Ombudsman is also dealing with broader issues that are important for the protection of human rights and freedoms in the country. In the past year, this was still the irregular situation of the deleted and the right of the Muslim religious community to its own religious facility. In the parliamentary group, we note that the Ombudsman only confirms what we have taken a firm stand for and what we have repeatedly pointed out, namely that the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected. The latest evidence of the depth of the problem and the weight of responsibility, which is not least in the National Assembly, is seen in the Ombudsman's special report on the deleted problem, as can be seen from his regular reports. Unfortunately, this reference will no longer address him. But we hope that it will not remain undetected in public. As we are aware of the responsibility of the National Council for the Enforcement of Constitutional Court Decisions, the one linked to the deleted is the oldest non-executed decision, we have proposed to supplement the third recommendation on the Internal Policy Committee. This requires the responsible authorities to abolish the found non-constitutionality of laws and regulations and the addition requires the national assembly to take all legal measures and procedures in order to ensure the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court when they have already been tabled. On these two issues, this deleted and the construction of the mosque, the impatience that had previously grown out of perhaps covered intolerance has often been accompanied by a strong hate speech that did not remain only outside the National Assembly. We therefore support the Ombudsman's efforts to create an internal organisational unit that will specialize in monitoring discrimination and intolerance. For we have not overlooked that, as a lonely case, the degree of intolerance has reached a dangerous point when instead, for the safety and security of our property, we would like to take care of the village guards. This conflict between the Roma and the environment in which they live will certainly not end. It is precisely the emergence of intolerances that some would like to minimize and which are often linked to the poor social situation of people, as they are stronger in the less developed areas of our country, that require more effective measures to overcome the social pressures of people. If there is an increased sense of security associated with greater social justice and solidarity and the causes of fear of an uncertain future for individuals and a sense of insecurity are addressed, there will also be growing intolerance. Education for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms also plays an important role in this regard. Therefore, the United List of Social Democrats supports the Ombudsman's efforts and measures to raise awareness of human rights, in particular of children. Let me get this. We will support the adoption of the proposed recommendations in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. However, we wish Mr Hanzko and all his colleagues in the Office of the Ombudsman a successful work and good cooperation with the National Assembly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you, colleague Majda. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by counterpart Zmigo Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u16	Good day and thank you so much for saying that! I don't know in which language should I welcome the so-called Slovenian Ombudsman - Arabic, Gypsy, Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian, or should I use any other language? After all, it is not the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the Ombudsman of the rights of all other people, but not of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The undeniable fact is that the current Ombudsman does nothing to protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It protects everything possible, even those who have committed crimes against the surrounding population, take protection. Take the example of the Gypsies. What did he do for the people in the village of Krka? What did he do for the people in the Noisy Village? What did he do for people where the gypsy settlements are? Nothing. The gypsies would call it "I've had my nails handed to me"; let him translate, he probably already knows what I told him. Come in. It advocates an Islamic religious center, but it does not do anything for those who are thrown out of apartments where they lived for 40, 50 years. He just doesn't care. He wants to know if the Muslims will have their religious center with 14 prayer rooms, yes. I don't know what he got from them, I don't know, I can think of anything. It does nothing when the official institutions do not receive from the official authorities in the Republic of Slovenia the data and documents required under the law. The Commission for the control of intelligence services has requested certain data and simply non is simply shockingly rejecting us, but this is not of interest to the Ombudsman, the so-called Ombudsman of the Slovenian State for Human Rights. Don't do anything. In all legal disputes, which go through the head of the poor Slovenian citizens and citizens, but deal with anything else. Even when it comes to abuse by the tax authorities, when it comes to abuses by the prosecutions and the courts. I can tell you directly, I've been to him a few times, because of Radiol, he's done nothing, promises, promises, promises and later avoids that he's not on his way, that I don't know where else, probably he's been eating and drinking some pig that they've been spinning. As for the speculators who were on the other hand in the years of Slovenian independence, against the Republic of Slovenia, against our independence and independence, they will ensure everything, they will fight for them, and I do not know what he is doing. Probably because he feels the same way about them. Interesting, order, justice and justice are only words with him, should be a fact or, as someone would say, the word should become meat, because it may become meat, the former of a pig, as I said. One wonders what to do with such a Ombudsman, who does not protect the human rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens, but protects the rights of everything else, but also indirectly, as well as the rights of the ruling click, which in all possible ways owns, not only the right to decide what is right and what is wrong, but also the financial resources, companies, businesses and everything else and property such or otherwise. A man asks if it will be necessary to take justice into his own hands. The Charter of the United Nations allows for vitality, allows for its own organisation to defend national interests, in so far as these national, own interests of the population are at risk. In this case, they are. Or should we tell people, ladies and gentlemen, those swift-shooters, Kalashnikovs, scorpions and hand bombs hidden, you may need them to defend your property and your life against those protected by the so-called Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. It's scary. We're at a terrible turning point. I hope and wish that my implementation will achieve some effect that something will change. Slovenia continues to remain Slovenian from day to day. Yesterday you voted for the Fascistization of the University of the Sea. That's great. Will we now change the anthem and sing Giovinezzio instead of the Slovenian anthem? This is what I am waiting for, and I am sure that this will be supported by the Ombudsman, so-called, because the Italian community in Slovenia is the one who must have more rights than everyone else. More rights than normal citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia. Not only Europeans, cows in Europe, are laughing at us. Everyone's laughing at us, and they think we're fools. This shows exactly the attitude of the Republic of Croatia against us and is slapping us on the dog and across and we are setting them a different face. There must be a reason. For those who benefit and benefit from this, for sure, there are great benefits. Every day we read about what kind of extra crap coalition clients are doing, how they're here and there, and I don't know where they've done it. I don't know. I don't know if it's really Slovenian descent that needs to be cleaned. There must be a lot of rot in this country, a lot of rot and this rot is spreading to all levels of Slovenian society. And those who want to ensure justice, fair action, fair treatment both in the courts and at the police in the handling of the police authorities, in the prosecutions, will appear to have to take the right into their own hands, as protection does not. The law is being abused, the prosecutors are being abused, the police are mostly acting under the command of a United List minister. He is looking for low left-hand, right-hand and all ends and places, and this is used and then by the Ombudsman, the so-called Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, who protects everyone else from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It looks like it's his job. If he thinks he's going to succeed Kofi Annan, he's wrong. Even if he thinks he's going to succeed someone else. He'll end up where he started. In one room filled with books and one sweater on it. That's when I supported the guardian, at first. I have to tell you that I'm sorry for how much hair I have on my head, and for as long as I have hair on my head, I've got a lot less hair today. Awful. Awful. Just as the Slovenian nation would put its own trap behind its neck and hang itself or wait for the well-intentioned other Slovenians to push it into the depths to hang. We've come so far. It's embarrassing, and it's sad. But that's when our great letter said our back was bent because the whip was used and desired. If he's used to it, but you get up and you shake, you hit him who hit you back, he's different, and he's willing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčič. I'm allowing myself to say the following. We all have the right to be critical, not only of justice, but of duty, all those who speak here, colleagues and colleagues. But we also have, not only a bonton, but also a duty to be respectful of institutions and not offensive to individuals and function holders, especially if we are truly noble. This applies to all I give the floor to my colleague Rudolph Petan, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Guardian with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! This year's report was received in two parts of the National Assembly. First came the annual report of the Ombudsman on the basis of which the debate was held on the Internal Policy Committee, which was on 30 June. The report alone is very transparent with many cases and with additions, and this report we explicitly commended in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On 6 July, after the Committee's consideration, we received special reports on the issue of deleted and domestic violence. First of all, just a few words about the main report, which was also the subject of a hearing on the home committee. In this report, particular emphasis should be placed on the wide range of specific cases faced by the Ombudsman as an institution, which provides an appropriate picture of the work of this institution and well illustrates the subject of the citizen's fight against windmills in the wind, which is commonly called the State. There are many cases in which the government, as the executive branch of power, should pay more attention to them than just excuses in the report. It would be good to send concrete examples of consideration to concrete institutes so that people in institutions who kill citizens or do not solve their cases will see their image. As an addition to this report, recommendations are made. These recommendations also reflect a review of the subject being addressed by the Ombudsman and is a summary of the work with a recommendation for a solution within the framework of the competences of the Ombudsman as an institution. It is therefore quite unusual that the majority on the Internal Policy Committee have decided to correct the 3rd Recommendation and, in the meantime, the Ombudsman's general recommendation on the Constitutional Court's decisions should put in only one concrete case, that is, deleted. The revised recommendation is [[I want to say that in our opinion, the Ombudsman's first text was very correct.]] : "The Government and the competent ministries should, in view of the fact that there is still no timely enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court which establish the unconstitutionality of laws and regulations, make all necessary efforts to resolve such cases in the opposite. However, where the proposals already tabled are decided by the National Assembly," and here is the addition, "as the case may be deleted, it must use all legal remedies and the procedures envisaged to ensure the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court." This means that the ruling majority is regarded as a constitutional right only as the right of deleted persons and all other decisions relating to Slovenian citizens do not count as anything. In doing so, it should be stressed that permanent residence is not even a category of human rights; so far, unfortunately or otherwise, it is. And, Your Honor, I have here a clean new set that shows how many of these decisions are still in the Constitutional Court, which are not yet implemented and should be taken into account by Parliament. There are eight pages of the review of the outstanding decisions of the Constitutional Court to which the National Assembly has obligations, and between these eight parties there is also a decision on deleted but still seven and a half pages of unrealised. But for the ruling majority, it is obvious that they are the only ones that are deleted, that this is the only case that needs to be brought into the conclusions and excluded from everyone else. Such a person gets the sense that there is only one problem in Slovenia that has been erased, that there are no other problems. Obviously, all problems of citizens for the United List, LDS and DeSUS are irrelevant. They are not important bankruptcys, they are not important unemployment, they are not important backlogs in the courts, they are obviously not human rights; they are not a bunch of forgotten materials in the cabinets of any prosecutor, there is no housing problem, there is no problem of bureaucracy, there is no problem of Roma, there is no problem of pensioners being deprived of two pensions, it is obvious that the ruling majority is normal to increase insurance premiums for over 60 years, due to leaking information, which is still a violation of human rights. However, they are the only ones that have been deleted, and this is why this is the only issue that needs to be addressed in particular in the 3rd Recommendation adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy. Of course, it's not the guardian's fault, I have to say it properly, the guardian has made the right decision, but this is what happened here. And now we are dealing with what we have before us, which is the final product. One wonders whether we really have enough money to deal with this subject alone, while those affected by natural disasters are offered only credits that are difficult to repay and no grants. For this area we will allow time and money that the state will have to sue these people for years and years - "never ending sory" - and the country will have money for all this and also energy. But for other things, obviously, there will be no energy. That is why it is wrong for the ruling majority only to make recommendations in this case, and this is also what we want to point out in the SDS. But there is something else to be pointed out. At the end of last year's television show due to the deleted situation in Slovenia, the Ombudsman socially compared that in Nazi Germany before the war. No matter how much he meant it, no matter what - he may have been betrothed - it is unacceptable and harmful for Slovenia. We immediately responded to the SDS and sent a letter of desire to the Ombudsman, including to some extent a request, after an apology or correction of this reference. Of course it wasn't. The Ombudsman is a representative of the State, so whatever his own opinion, to which he is fully entitled, he has every right, he cannot afford it. In Slovenia there are no situations like those in Germany at the time, and it is therefore very damaging for some to give information to Europe as if we had deprived people of their citizenship in Slovenia. You all know that's not true, but so far no one has reacted to it. And I think it would be a task for the guardian to be able to do it. Such an opinion has been made public, it is a real shame that the guardians, because of their personal, emotional and unilateral inclinations to wipe out swords, mischievous light on their well-done work. We also stressed this at the outset. Impatience with others is still an intolerance. Only the annual report we discussed on the Committee is of quality and is worthy of support. However, due to the ideological supplement on deleted at the request of the ruling - I will say impatiently ruling - the majority cannot be supported. And let me remind myself of the words of the President he said just before I got the word that we have the duty to be respectful, respectful, even to our citizens, even to other thinkers, regardless of whether we disagree with their opinion if we want to be noble. That goes for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you, Comrade Petan. The position of Member of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Majda Širca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u20	Dear Guardian! We believe or believe that the 2004 report will have to extend or include respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as to analyse the growing intolerance in this area. I refer to my speaker from the National Party, who is also signed under the proposal for a law on Roma, in which he touches the Roma with one and only article in a way that eliminates them as if the Roma are not human. I think that this proposal is familiar to you and that in the future, if it is still up to date, it will certainly experience a lot of apprehension.In the summer of 2003, we survived in such a way as to swallow the bitter fruit of injustices that have occurred in the past. The year 2003 was deleted as a sign of the regulation of the situation. There has been an attempt to correct violations of justice, and in these attempts new injustices or new intolerances have arisen, even today. The Ombudsman says, or perhaps even comforts, that the very will to completely cut the ignorance in this area is important. And both the international human rights institution, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance and the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Council of Europe, take very clearly the problem deleted, as the report also summarizes. I quote: "The question that has been addressed has been raised by severe resistance in some groups of people, as certain political parties have encouraged them to do so." That's how we read it. We can only say once again that messing with human pressures to gain political points is immoral, unethical, and unscrupulous. This is important, indeed not a new but difficult truth, because we have faced the challenge at this time by challenging the credibility of the Constitutional Court and denying human rights. In 2003, another inherited injustice was attempted: the injustice of the Muslim community, the right of the Muslim community to a religious and cultural facility that has not yet been trained. In this case, too, they expressed impatience, perhaps even more. And that's where the political loans came in. The worst part is that those who have defended the problem liberally and with upright attitude have been subject to heavy interest. The Ombudsman correctly observes that hidden intolerance towards refugees, Roma, same-sex and many other indicators have already been achieved in the past years, and the summit has reached just last year. And it has also deepened the reformation of the political space, where we have laid down constitutions and also constitutional court rulings, on one, I suppose, extreme gender. On the second floor, discussions on the same possibilities, many times like rhetorical figures and declarations, spread out full of traps. Thus, opponents of the construction of the Muslim centre referred to the spatial act, and in fact the act was only an alibi for disagreement to get their believers their space - if I mention only one of these two-moral states. The Ombudsman states that at the end of 2003, a total of 10 decisions of the Constitutional Court were pending enforcement. Today, we can be sure that we are happy or happy to say that we are facing only two others who have not reached the deadline. This is a 1998 decision referring to the establishment of municipalities, the Koper area, and the 2001 decision, which also refers to the establishment of municipalities and judicial protection. Of course, it is true that one can be too much, but it is not true to deny the Government's efforts to eliminate it, and all the others - I apologize - for eliminating constitutional inconsistencies. Let us place on this site a great deal of burden on the executive and legislative branches of power, as well as a devastating amount of European and other legislative procedures and legislation, which many times forces us into complicated and perhaps too quickly - not to say superficial - solutions, which require us to return to their corrections also through constitutional judgements. We are also aware in the report that we are counting too many times on how to solve, above all, the problems that could be solved by the Corcquetive and Sensitious Human, perhaps by other approaches to state administration. In this respect, a number of new and new regulations are being accumulated, and otherwise a number of them are being proposed by the Ombudsman himself. At the same time, it also points to inconsistent compliance with existing regulations or unpublished sub-laws or inconsistencies in respect for the implementation and implementation of laws. The Ombudsman also concludes that it is not appropriate to overlook the carelessness of the authorities when they place responsibility on others and that some institutions use more energy to escape and fail to act than to solve problems. Such a statement seems very meaningful and important to us. In short, are there any observations for people in distress who are at the door of government officials who sometimes need only a kind word but also point to the broader carelessness of citizens and citizens. With extensive warnings, the Ombudsman stops at vulnerable groups, from collective rights of national minorities, Roma to religious communities; and more than a worrying description of the work of the Office for Religious Communities, by citing evading responses, the failure of the Office, the failure to comply with the obligation to declare religious communities, the will of the leaders of the office, the preference of certain religious communities and so on. In this sense, perhaps the guardian is one of few, if not the only one who is more serious about the work of the Office for Religious Communities and clearly points out its inactivity, not to say bias. Following the restructuring of the state administration, the office maintained its status and did not come into the composition of any ministry. Its autonomy is, of course, meaningful and important, which does not mean that it is self-evident if it does not fulfil its mission. In this regard, we expect the government as the founder of the office to think about or act on this. The length of the proceedings in the courts is a constant of the Ombudsman’s report, a constant of our lives. But the pro-active policy that has recently taken place at the justice ministry suggests that these issues will gradually be resolved. The report is once again, certainly a useful indicator of the necessary steps and urgent recovery. The development of society and the increasing awareness of people's rights, as well as the agile everyday activities of the Ombudsman, reveal new violations that perhaps have not been detected by other guardians in their nine-year operation, including the current ones, in other forms and in different forms. Among them, there is certainly hidden discrimination, which attempts to restrict the legitimate rights of individuals or social groups by misuse of legal channels, as the report states. And we are at the beginning of our message. Finally, let me mention the welcome, very important annex, entitled "Violence in the family", the special report of the Ombudsman, with the additional sub-heading "The Way to a Solution". Which means we are facing a report that not only sums up the actual situation, but also analyses this situation and offers and seeks solutions. In short, it is a major problem of Slovenian society, domestic violence, it is an acute, too often hidden but extremely pressing problem where women and children are usually victims. Indeed, NGOs and individual experts are trying to reduce these problems, especially where state institutions do not have either will or power. Let me mention that it seems important to us that individuals, especially individuals, especially women, victims of violence, in recent times, perhaps also with this activity and greater attention to this problem, have begun to advertise and organise themselves more courageously. But it seems that when they decided to resist violence, they became the second victim of that bicycle, as the report says, which should help them. The Special Report, "Violence in the Family" and "The Way to a Solution", should therefore be the first working material on the table of new Members and Members, but not just them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you, colleague Maja Shirtz. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by colleague Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, the respectable Ombudsman with his fellow Members and representatives of the Government. We have before us the ninth regular report of the Ombudsman, which is even more extensive than last year. The Ombudsman has become an institution to which more and more citizens turn in the event of dissatisfaction with the work of the State authorities, in the event of human rights violations and other constitutionally guaranteed rights. The report reflects the functioning of society, is communication between the National Assembly, the Government, the Ombudsman, and also public awareness of the work of the Ombudsman. The ninth regular report is transparent, clearly showing the areas in which the Ombudsman dealt with his fellow workers in the past year and in which areas progress is detected and where it still needs to be made. However, we have been particularly careful in the report, in some of the areas that we have closely followed in previous reports, and in areas where we have already warned ourselves about irregularities or areas that are legally wrong or not at all. First, we would like to create a problem for the Roma. The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma ethnic community in the Republic of Slovenia is Article 65 of the Constitution, which provides that the situation and special rights of the Roma community residing in the Republic of Slovenia are governed by law. The Roma area, their status, rights are already governed by several laws, but recent events have shown that the so-called Roma issues are not enough. I also asked the Minister of Justice, Minister of the Interior, a question in this regard at the June meeting of the National Assembly. It should also be pointed out that it is unfair for the burden of the Roma problem to be borne by 20 small Slovenian municipalities, since the issue of the Roma community must be resolved in an integrated way, for all of Slovenia. We believe that serious consideration should be given to the way in which ownership relations are regulated and the possible legalisation of black buildings and the provision of basic infrastructure. In doing so, the Ministry of Environment and Space has a key role to play to confirm the relevant changes in the spatial plans, which has not been adequately heard since all the years. The government has the opportunity to allocate funds by redistributing funds or by rebalancing the budget for immediate assistance to municipalities having problems with Roma issues, which was also indicated as one of the options when adopting the budget. In view of the escalation of the conflict with the Roma community and the lack of adequate solutions by the authorities, the population is justly outraged by the violation of the general right to security, the constitutional right to private property. As a result, their quality of life is significantly reduced, which of course requires immediate action. We hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Committee for the Protection of the Roma Community and the creation of a working group will be successful in its work, and in particular that its results will help to resolve or improve the relationship between the Roma and the citizens in whose municipalities they live. Furthermore, we have paid particular attention to regulating the field of mental health. This disorderly area has been accompanied by several annual reports by the Ombudsman. This year too, it is stated that a law must be adopted that will fully regulate the field of mental health, including the rights of mental patients. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully agrees with this conclusion that it is necessary to adopt the Law on Mental Health as soon as possible, as there are in practice different interpretations of the appropriateness of applying the detention procedure under the Law on Unfair Procedure in Social Security Institutions, which I hope will be implemented as soon as possible. For several years, the Ombudsman has been warning about the judicial backlogs. This is certainly a problem that needs a careful approach or further hard work by judges, which will also help the public to better think in this branch of government; in particular, that this area should work impartially, honestly and with a high-quality trial, without undue delay. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we regret once again that the majority of the Assembly did not find enough obedience to the urgent changes in the field of justice. However, it should also be pointed out that in a specific review, the area of the judiciary, judicial backlogs, is one of the largest cases faced by the Ombudsman, and this case falls further each year. This, I believe, raises general concern that something is wrong in this area. The report also refers to the Hercules programme, which did not cut off the Gordy knot behind. In doing so, we agree with the statement made by the President of the Supreme Court, who also stated in the debate on the Internal Policy Committee that the Hercules programme was not intended to cut the Gordy knot, but had some positive effects on the resolution of judicial backlogs, but was too small. We support the proposal to take certain measures to speed up decision-making when it comes to deciding on children's rights, as long-term waiting for judgment can have lasting consequences for the child. The Ombudsman’s report notes that the scope of the public administration’s action is improving through work rationalisation measures, documents adopted and sub-legislative acts. However, the review itself of the matters handled by the Ombudsman and also the increase in the scope of these issues shows that, of course, the functioning of public administration is, of course, questionable many times as a service to citizens. It further points to the poor organisation of territorial units, long-term procedures, which we believe will require certain measures, as we have been warned by citizens. Unemployment; of course, the Ombudsman points to a high level of unemployment, which is slowly decreasing, which certainly affects the position of employees. The most endangered group are, of course, older workers and disabled persons. Employment is important for more than obtaining the necessary means of living, and it is also essential for the social inclusion of all and especially the more vulnerable categories of the population. Of course, the Ombudsman also drew attention to health problems. He highlighted the situation at the Cancer Institute in particular. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find the situation to be worrying, and therefore, at our June regular meeting, the question raised by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health in this regard. The government replied in its report that by the end of the year the construction of new buildings of the oncology institute, H and R facility was expected to be completed, which of course we welcome. However, we believe that the area of health is one where we rightly expect more Europe in Slovenia. Slovenian patients have only a poor half of the amount available to patients in Germany for medical purposes. At the same time, patients in Slovenia have the very same standard of service as patients in Germany. The population of Slovenia is ageing and in the country is becoming more and more cancer patients. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that both professional and policy are too weak to be prepared for this trend. The country is not financially and materially prepared to follow trends and the profession lacks good doctors of oncologists. We therefore propose two ways in the Slovenian People's Party; the government should respond immediately and, within the framework of the law on the origin of the budget, there are transfers and a certain amount of money towards the purchase of emergency equipment at the Oncological Institute in Ljubljana, there are several ways to obtain funding. The State may sell some state property, and from this source it also uses money to purchase the equipment mentioned above. We also see one possible solution in that the country builds a few miles less highways in this or next year. Last year, the Ombudsman and his colleagues paid special attention to domestic violence, especially child abuse. Two years ago, a group for children's rights was also set up. Although the relationship with children's rights has begun to change, all decision makers must take account of the urgency of the rapid procedure. We hope that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will make sure that the Family Violence Act is submitted to the National Assembly this year. Of course, this report by the Ombudsman also lacks a description of the problem of the perception of corruption and customerism at the top of our society and, of course, its impact on citizens and citizens, as well as human rights violations in this regard. It is more than obvious that most jobs or new jobs in our country can be obtained only through acquaintance. This is a very disturbing information. Of course, the Ombudsman's report covers many more areas and problems of citizens and citizens, which we have specifically highlighted in the Group of Members, and each of them needs a detailed examination and concrete solution so that the State of Slovenia will be a legal and social state for all its inhabitants. At the end of the report, we would like only to say that, in addition to all the issues described, there are also individual cases, as they allow us to understand even better the plight of all those who have turned to the Ombudsman and often say more than the statistics. We have also examined the report of the Committee on Home Affairs and the conclusions adopted by the mother's working body. Of course, we have no reservations about the proposals, except for the proposal for a third decision, which we consider to be biased. This is one of the most up-to-date issues that was present in last year's, as in this year's year, this is the area of so-called deleted. Here again, it must be pointed out that the injustice was not done to the deleted. They had the opportunity to regulate their status, and the country even called them to do so. The issue of regulation in the way it was, of course, also proposed by the Constitutional Court decision and the law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court, also provides an explanation of the possibility of achieving double discrimination. Of course, the law explicitly covers only nationals of countries established in the territory of the former SFRY, but not citizens of the European Union and other countries. The law also does not correct injustices that were not actually committed, but in the event of admission it will discriminate indirectly against persons who in 1992 and later respected the law and did not speculate against the Slovenian state. They have acquired citizenship in accordance with international recognitions and regulations. Not to mention, of course, that in assessing this important issue, the Constitutional Court should respect the Constitution as the highest legal act in order to make it necessary, a credible finding of actual residence. Of course, in the parliamentary group, we are convinced that all three branches of government, both the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly and the Government, have cancelled this issue. It is time for a new consensus in our society, and on this issue will also be the fundamental respect given by the voters at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Thank you to all colleagues and colleagues for presenting their views. As usual, there is a debate between Members and Members, and before that he has expressed his wish for the word of Minister of Health, Dr Dušan Keber, and I give you my word, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President, and above all, the respectable Ombudsman with the team. Let me say a few words on behalf of the government first. Of course, the government, together with the other branches of government, feels most responsible for what is not appropriate or critical in the Ombudsman's report, and the government is aware of its duty to remedy the shortcomings, the mistakes made in this report. The government or individual members of the government, individual ministries, as in the nature of the matter, can find individual parts of the report that may be too critical, or the tone is such that it does not take into account the achievements of the past years, but nevertheless recognises the great value of the office itself, the existence of this function in the country and the reports that it attempts annually to do its best to speak as objectively as possible in favour of the citizens of this country, in particular - and we stress this - particularly in favour of the minorities of this country. Therefore, not only has the government addressed this report, not only this year, it has commissioned all its ministries to deal with it, discussions have been held with the Ombudsman and its members and ministries have their own answers to the question of how to achieve this trend, which the report recognises - the trend that the situation is gradually changing, but nevertheless they are improving - that this trend will continue in the future. From here on out, let me say something of my own. It is right that the report deals in particular with minorities, in particular those groups which cannot reach their rights through a majority opinion. Let me not be offended if I help myself with the principles of the French Revolution that still apply today: freedom, equality, brotherhood - fraternity, which we today call solidarity. And if 100 or 200 years ago there was freedom and equality first and that is equality, I will not explain it separately, leading to a democracy in which the majority decides, then solidarity today is the fundamental principle of this three principles, the solidarity of the majority with the minority. Seeking real privileges for minorities if I use the word "privileged" willingly, because minorities through parliamentary democracy and through the majority cannot choose their rights. It is right that this report puts minorities first. When we heard again today about the deleted, I cannot help but awaken the right of single women to fertilization by means of help. And is it right that most people decide on some small minority right? All those thinking today that, for example, the rights of deleted persons, the rights of certain rights that we can change with the majority will, must be aware that at a certain point each of us can become a minority or a minority. That it may suddenly belong to a group of patients, disabled persons, some other special groups that are decided by the majority. It is therefore necessary to know that a democratic country that respects this must be prepared to protect the rights of the minority, sometimes through what it is willing to do for the majority. I could tell myself some of what we think is wrong that has been done to most people. For example, our supplementary insurance, which, along with you and in other places, I deal with it several times. According to my personal opinion, the supplementary insurance with the same premiums is a violation or at least a disputed position of the Constitution, but I do not resent the Ombudsman if he does not do so in particular, otherwise he may. This year we had new exacerbations in this area. Nevertheless, I can say calmly, this has been accepted by the majority in this House, these provisions have been adopted here and this Slovenian majority can influence the future composition of Parliament, the supplicating composition of the other branches of government and here, even though I am struggling to change it myself, I cannot report it to anyone else than: most decide on myself. When most people realize that there is injustice in this part of her, I am sure she will act. The minorities cannot, and therefore I call - here, of course, I have said that I speak for myself, but I think I share the opinion of many others - it is necessary to make a clear distinction when we are talking about smaller social groups who are unable to vote and their majority to win this unequal fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, my friend Peter Levich has the floor. He's not here. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Ombudsman's report is extensive and apparently more extensive every year. What does the report actually say? How power, the ruling coalition leads this country, how these state institutions operate, what they sin, what sins are. That's actually in the back. It is a matter of whether the State abandons its actions in protecting human rights or because of its inappropriate conduct that violates rights. So the report is getting longer, the sins are getting bigger, it's actually a state-run card and it's the leadership of this coalition. It is a pity that the report has been written by many and most in the form of some kind of essay. I have missed a strict rule to draw attention to acts that have undoubtedly been committed in any words already described in actual action or in any way - in relation to the law or provision laid down in the Constitution. There is no possibility of freedom of expression or reference if the provision or report is to be correct. We know that social differences have increased in this country, even on merit or on the grounds of inappropriate laws, but if laws have been passed and are not in breach of the Constitution, it means that it is not a violation of rights, but it is a matter of such leadership of the country, but it is not, of course, in the place of the Ombudsman, to say that there has been a violation of rights because it is not. It is interesting, say, a statement or a report, because so much is said about xenophobia and similar on the basis of, I don't know, ethical, civic and I don't know which predispositions - sex. We have also not received a single initiative that would claim discrimination on a national or ethical basis. So much talk about what happened then, whether the guardian found it somewhere else or not. Respect for human rights. Some have a double electoral right, such as Roma, Italians and Hungarians, and are therefore in a privileged position, this is in accordance with the Constitution. We can discuss whether this is okay or not with the principle of equality, I believe that such provisions, in particular as regards the new provisions on Roma, have not improved the situation in the municipalities. The tension is increasing, the difference is increasing, the disorder is increasing, the aggression is increasing - nothing has reduced what was the problem. Less and less Roma are being studied for their professions, fewer are doing them regularly, and more and more are black work, violence and other things. So, this decision, this step was an empty shot. I will touch on the equality of religious communities. As far as religious communities are concerned, if we have a law that simply regulates in general that anyone who wants to apply should apply, this country should be implemented without further delay. But she left the basic task of defining the criteria for religious communities, which are representative, which are not or are based on any other criterion. For if we take into account all the religious communities equally - let us suppose, the three agree at the inn at the beert to establish a religious community, register it as a society and then require all things, including spiritual provision in the military; although there are only three, but say, we want equality, spiritual care, wherever, all the same. Wait, where in the world do they have these things?Oh, my God! So the government didn't do it, so there were so many conflicts. And then it makes no sense to compare these three people who have agreed to a beer jar to establish an unbeliever community, with that religious community that has so many believers or so many adherents, has so much tradition, has such an activity, charismatic, charitable or anything else. I would like to point out, however, that the basic postulate is equality, but it is necessary to distinguish between the recognition of certain works or additional things, because otherwise it will be a state that deals only with a minority; most of you do not care in the ruling coalition anyway. Most of the employees with lower wages, because most of them are, you don't care much. You care about extremes. Prison overcrowding. We've noticed this problem at some point, but we wouldn't make such a terrible story out of it. If any capacity is free - as I believe is known - they are probably on Ig, but there is a woman's prison there, and the question is whether a mixed population in prison would go according to the characteristics of the population found in this treatment. Standard prisoners. Well, if you compare the standard of prisoners with that of the former military, you can find that the standard of prisoners is significantly higher. If I recall, I was serving alone in the 50 square meters space, and there were 20 soldiers, each with about 2 square meters of space. There is a need to ensure a better standard in prisons, but not to make a big story out of it. So that every prisoner would have his own room, so that, for example, he would have his own toilet, each one of his own, his own. I don't know, then it's some kind of female or -- I don't know. In short, no other citizen has such standards in normal life. Let us judge where there is some degree of normality and the standard applicable to this community, Slovenia. Assignment of children after divorce. You don't touch that much in this report. However, we have found on the petitions commission that some social work centres have acted extremely problematicly in the allocation of children. Preferential, then there were some illegalities, conflicts of interest, personal connections, cheerleading and some other things. It's not like that. The Earth Book. We are waiting on the side of the ruling coalition, of course it is too late now to arrange the land book at least on the level of Mary Teresa. In order to be that it is a reliable land book that allows legal transactions in the country. That still hasn't happened. But there are some empty factions about police violence, about inappropriate conduct. This is spreading to me. I don't know what dimensions. But who in this country should protect citizens from violence? Will they volunteer? Are there going to be some temporary brigades, triplets? In the end, we will have to decide whether we will give authorization or authorization to the police - someone to protect the elderly. Passing passersby no longer protects them because they have found that in the proceedings when a crime is detected, they are the ones most pressured upon and less on those who have caused the act. The police have to have these powers, not make fun of the police. Of course, when it goes beyond that measure, it goes beyond that and it has to be sanctioned. That is why we also asked the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Committee whether there were sufficient leverage available to prosecute crime. The answer was, "Yes, that's enough." That is why, of course, we now expect the police to act in a consistent manner. Consistency with the Slovenians and consistent treatment of Roma when committing crimes: either carjacking, driving without driving permits and similar non-criminal treatment is sanctioned to others. Citizens expect and require equal treatment on the basis of the Constitution. It is the duty of the Ombudsman to identify cases that are not consistent with law and constitution. Not what he thought would be good in this society. It mentions social differences - they are big, they are growing. This is not the subject of the Ombudsman. That's his opinion, maybe his own. This is also my opinion that social diversity has increased. However, if this is a social distinction based on law, then it is not a violation. It is immediately marked as intolerance if someone expresses an opinion that is not contrary to the Constitution - a definition of certain things or behaviour. The Ombudsman has not yet touched several thousand persons in the mother books who are formally still living, but in fact they have been for 60 years, we do not know in which grave they are issuing decisions which are "lari fari"; therefore it is found that in 1950, according to the witness statement, this man should no longer live. This is the decision or decision of the administrative authority. It's nothing. Procedures should be carried out and issued in view of the fact that these succession procedures cannot proceed. They also do not get a decision in terms of the correction of the wrongs - there is a reference to the correction of the wrongs, but in terms of the issue of the decision on the means rather than the issue of the decisions on the status. There are four thousand more, since they are mostly over 80 years of age. And the government's response is that in the next two or three years we will do it. That's the government's answer, that's not serious, then it's better to say nothing. The distribution of television and radio frequencies, there has been a complete anarchy for several years, it is not known who drinks, who pays, who gets the frequency of those who have more money under their thumb and more connections, who have stronger connections with the government structure. Nobody touched anything here. However, it is a violation of equality, of equality of access, for the first time in July or June, these frequencies will now be taken into account through the call for proposals. So far it has not been, there has been no invitation to tender, it is a violation of equality, a violation of the law on public tendering. But he touched the Ombudsman - and a large chapter - that someone could not arrange a public charter because he did not bring a picture without a blanket. Infringement of personal rights. That's what's said in there. I don't know if it was a route or if it was a hat. If the state has prescribed it. And because he didn't want to take pictures from the front profile - violation of rights! If you want to make a ID, I don't think it's a violation of ethics or privacy if you're painting a face without a blanket. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] Thank you very much. We'll have another discussion, Mr. Zląbec, when it's your turn. Otherwise, in order to establish that crime is spreading in the country, there is no proper hearing for eradication, the authorities only react visibly in cases. This is noted by the Ombudsman, some of whom also state precisely, with some strong public groups operating, namely, in terms of achieving anarcho-liberal objectives. Why? Because the right to own property is not respected and then taken into account by these groups that they have the right to have free access to property other than their own. When we get started. This is really the way to anarchy to protect someone because they occupy other spaces. In short, I'd just like to finish here. There is much to be said, acts that point to the irresponsible conduct of state authorities, to the irresponsible conduct of institutions, either in the sense that it does not interfere with the State, that it intervenes too late or that it is inappropriate to intervene. A lot, every year more. And there's a lot of things in the report that don't belong in it. It is a matter of its own secular belief or of its own concepts and opinions. That could have been abandoned and the report could have been shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Maja Zupan gets her word. So I assumed the announcement was due to your replacement. Silva Montenegro gets a word for its debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, representatives of the government and the Guardian! I must admit that reading this year's annual report by the Ombudsman has attracted me and has not left me indifferent. Some areas are certainly more typical, and they are especially interesting if people observe them over a longer period or better compare the annual reports of the past years. This is so much more interesting if I think that the experience of past years is behind me in this national assembly, so that I can somehow compare the correlation between these two institutions and, of course, others within the state administration and the government. The environment is certainly an area that is very diverse in itself, since a large number of basic laws have been adopted in the past period in the National Assembly. Not to mention, there's a lot of them: from the building law, the editing of space, etc. I have to save a minute for the others. However, the chapter on environment and space is relatively modestly represented in the report, as it is normal to know that the report is written on the basis of initiatives and complaints received. The Ombudsman notes that in the past period, compared to the year, they had been slightly reduced. This trend is always felt in the past periods, the number of initiatives to regulate space at the expense of those relating to environmental interventions is decreasing. The contents are more or less similar, and if somehow incorporated into the content sets, they are: emissions from economic and other activities, overburdening the environment with noise from guest houses, overburdening the environment with noise to be communicated by church bells, initiatives related to procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial acts, building of mobile antennas, in particular due to the problem and manner of awareness of the intended construction, and the problem of identifying the potential effects of non-ionised electromagnetic radiation on the environment and people, ignorance and weak, misleading information in the public, which causes resistance, fear, rejection, discomfort, discontent. Due to dissatisfaction and non-responsibility, inadequacy, non-implementation of inspection decisions, as well as the manner in which these decisions are implemented, inspection procedures have often been failed, and they are very much haunted by ghosts, particularly because of slow action and non-action at all. It is interesting that the issue of the construction of mobile telephone antennas has been resolved in one phase by establishing that the cooperation of professions, state authorities, civil society, the public and the public, should be reinforced, so that the Ministry of Information Society, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Administration for Radiation Protection, the Institute for Non-ionised Radiation and most of the main EMS drivers, decided to set up the EMS Forum project. Is that really the solution? It probably is. However, I wonder whether this is also a recognition that dialogue between the main actors does not exist or that it is a weak and not only dialogue, but a stable way of informing, as I think this should be a normal method of verification and control. The burden of non-executive inspection decisions usually refers mainly to a lack of financial resources or to a shortage of staff within the inspection services, that is also true. To whom does he give the measure: the judicial executive or the legislative authority? In the National Assembly, we usually blame contractors for poor law enforcement. The second usually, and most of the time at least, turns arrows to the National Assembly. Who's he on to improve the current situation? Probably all of them. And if I start with myself, one of the important decisions that we should take for those who will come to the National Assembly to require, in the procedure for the adoption of laws on those who prepare, a comprehensive law, together with all sub-laws, regulations, methodologies, regardless of whether an individual law requires or contains two or more, but also - let's say - 10 sub-laws - of course, for the second or third reading. We are just in the area of the environment where we are witnessing an explosion of laws that contain a series of sub-laws that are unfortunately not yet ready and the question is when they will be. They are likely to mark you for the next decade as well as a decade of writing the Ombudsman’s reports. Another interesting and important area is certainly health and health care. The Ombudsman drew attention to the concern for those with mental health problems and, as a result, as well as the direction of the global health organisation, proposed the adoption of laws on the protection of the rights of mental patients and some amendments to the law on unfair procedure. This is a warning, by the way, since 1999, also from the Ombudsman's report. The national programme area of mental health in the Republic of Slovenia requires more appropriate and modern treatment and implementation of preventive and curative rehabilitation and integration policies, which are also to be partially implemented through similar law. Years ago, it was found that it would probably be good to think about the special Ombudsman. In Maribor they have already established a local Ombudsman, and the city council has also elected the first Ombudsman of patients who is already active. The establishment of a local Ombudsman is being considered in the Municipality of Ljubljana and perhaps elsewhere, but I do not know. More and more proposals for the establishment of special guardians confirm the reputation your institution enjoys in its work. The rationality and economics of individual local communities will probably have to be taken into account when deciding for special guardians. More intensive cooperation and mutual information are also expected in a small country with limited financial capacity. It may be useful to define the relationship between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the various individual guardians in order to avoid duplication of work, on the one hand, or abandonment, on the other. Let me point out that there have also been different initiatives for the Ombudsman. Because they said the environment didn't have an advocate and who would protect it if it wasn't the environment. In my view, the general trend is that there is a accumulation of related national and local authorities with probably even or not sufficiently demarcated powers. Of course, all those affected will require a faster, more efficient, fairer decision on the complaints filed. And who's he taking the action on? Some expect much, say in the area of health, from health reform, which unfortunately persisted in one of the intermediate drawers. But the question is, which one of the ministries? And a comment for the Ombudsman. Such an extensive brochure would probably be welcome in general libraries, which unfortunately do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Guardian. I will start with the respect that has been mentioned today and I am sure that I am Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party, to the greatest extent, and I will be respectful of everyone. However, I stress that respect is a two-way process. I myself supported Mr Hanzek as the guardian when we decided on him. That is why, especially today, I have the right to say what or what I do not agree with. The Honourable Lord of the Ombudsman has issued a special report on deleted persons. Most people here think that's right. As a member of the Slovenian National Party, I have the right to say that it is not right to produce a special report on dismissed, unpaid, fraudulent workers. That it is not right that there is no special report on suicides of people in distress; that there is no special report on pedophilia in general and in the family. And that is not right - another special report is missing. Are respected colleagues in this country, the Republic of Slovenia, truly at risk and worth the attention of such important institutions as the Ombudsman simply wiped out, Roma and sexually targeted? Really? You'll have a chance to speak, dear fellows. Impatience is supposed to reach a higher level. Run, come on! The same-sex law was passed in the first reading. Is that what we call impatience? The Muslims will build a mosque. Is that impatience? Do you know what intolerance is? Two thousand workers of the machine factory Trbovlje, and today on the road! This is the impatience of you, you on this side talking about the Roma, the same-sex who are being violated by them, I don't know what right! Over 100 Peck workers are still on the road because there's no work for women. This is impatience because no law is adopted for them! And, clearly, now you will tell me, and Bogdan Barovic, the Slovenian National Party in general, because he agrees with us, are impatient, xenophobic and demagogim. Yes, say it! You're demagogues, too, in another way. We have the right to say what we think. If the Ombudsman - I believe he is trying - he cannot do this work alone, because the office is in this government. The government should help him and give him two more people, especially to cover social and other matters or, for example, for the area of child care or I don't know what else. Damn it! People in government service, don't talk about autonomy, and I don't know what! If he can't, let's help him if we want him to protect human rights. Let him protect them and protect the rights of the Slovenians, not some minorities! Threats that we'll all be a minority someday. We are! Colleagues and colleagues, we're a minority here too, and a small minority doesn't even have 90, 40 of us every day after 18 hours here. We're a minority, and we can be threatened. I want everyone to be healthy. Don't say that most people have to help a minority. The Ombudsman is a government service and is obliged to assist Slovenia and the Slovenians and to protect the human rights enshrined in paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm stressing again. It's government service to help if the guardian can't do it on his own. There's a lot of us that can't do anything, and we need to get help. And it's only right to get it if it protects Slovenians and human rights. Last. Those who advocate the rights of minorities are saved, and those who advocate the rights of the Slovenians are demagogog and xenophobic. If that's true, I'll sign. Otherwise, I will end up like I always like to end up, the nation will be writing its own judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u31	France Tsukati has a word for his debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you, for your word. In any case, the Ombudsman's report is as interesting, as it has been in recent years, varied, extensive and deserves the attention of the National Assembly. It certainly contains many things that need to be considered and thought out. So are those who decide the fate of the country, as civil society and everyone. The Ombudsman’s report is supposed to be a society’s conscience or criticism, and so we accept this report. Surely, however, the debate in the National Assembly is also meant as some 'feed-back' as some kind of public response, which also tells the Ombudsman something and must say something. For this reason, although I am satisfied with the report in many chapters, I will not speak and I will not give thanks, but I would like to say some thought which seems to me to be dragging like a red thread through all the operation of this mandate of the Ombudsman, which disturbs me. Let me explain. A great deal of attention was given to the watchmen. A special volume has been issued for this purpose, a special publication outside the regular report and here its criticism of the problem of the society to be erased and also its argument in protecting their rights is based on the fact that it was valid and then the legal void was present, which allowed or somehow gave birth to a type of injustice. It's a legal void, Mr. Hanzek. That's the problem with this company. And it is right that the marriage void, I will not go into the question of whether it is true or not, the opinions of the profession are shared and also politics shared, whether or not it was such a marked marriage emptiness that would give birth to so many injustices. But the question of the marriage gap would be explained in two cases. The Food Credit Services Act in 1990 enabled the establishment of a type of food credit service. In 1991, the Bank of Slovenia Act in Article 5 authorised the Bank of Slovenia to supervise the maintenance credit services. Over the years, it has been found that there is a legal void in the protection of savers who invested their savings in food and credit services. Therefore, the Banking Act was proposed in 1998 and 1999, where it was intended to fulfil this legal void, to secure nutritional deposits, to require a higher level of security of investment from food credit services and, of course, to monitor and act on this basis, the Bank of Slovenia. At that time, a moratorium was proposed, a one-year transitional period, in order to adapt the feeding and credit services to new higher standards for the safety of nutrition deposits. At that time, a certain political option reached a five-year decision in the National Assembly. Why, I'll make it clear to you. Due to the fact that in these years individual food credit services have been very good at taking money from savers, they have not invested it in the economy or in investments to ensure the safety of these savings deposits, but the money has disappeared. The owners of the catering services probably referred him from security abroad to private accounts. This was followed by a series of bankruptcys of food-credit services: Krańska food-credit service, Soča, Sicura and so on. And, of course, the savers wiped their noses. But they were Slovenian savers. It's big money - due to a legal void. Of course, the Constitutional Court will not say, because of the legal vacuum, there has been a great injustice. You didn't pay proper attention to it either. It was only for Slovenian citizens, for Slovenian savers. There have been serious injustices, family tragedies, but here the country remains uninterested and you have not shown proper attention here either. Let me also mention how the country reacted to bankruptcy specifically in the case of Sicura. Long before Sicura’s bankruptcy, police, according to the report, had warned the judicial authorities of this phenomenon. This is what the report says: "The court issued permission for the investigation much later than December 2002," when those famous house investigations took place at nineteen locations. In fact, it has been said that someone at a higher level of decision-making detained the investigation until Sicura was able to clean up the computer data, transfer and hide all of her unusual transactions. There certainly were no citizens protected by law or by law, there was a legal hole, neither protected by the government nor there was a great injustice on the part of the State. I'd like to mention another case. In 2000, the Insurance Act was adopted, which reads as follows: "Additional health insurance represents the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia and is implemented in accordance with the principle of intergenerational reciprocity. All insurance undertakings carrying out such insurance shall be necessarily included in the compensatory schemes. Detailed arrangements for the implementation of compensatory schemes shall be laid down in a specific law." This was adopted here, in the National Assembly, four years ago. And what's going on today? What happens is that you have been informed that, in fact, insurance companies, especially the new ones that enter this market, not to mention the Triglav insurance company, create a system of insurance premiums in a way that obtains young, healthy insurers who only pay and do not spend, while the old ones discourage, as is the case with insurance company Triglav, that the minimum premium is 2,700 tolars per month and the maximum of nearly 12,000 tolars. There is certainly discrimination here and the situation and social security of the elderly are at stake. So there is again some injustice, some legal void, which allows for a very unfair relationship and the social danger of those who feel it most, which are old and sick. If we are talking about a legal void, as some issue that should be resolved, which should be brought to the attention of the public, not only those who are affected, but also the Ombudsman, we are facing the opposite. After four years, the minister says, "Ah, after all, this law cannot be passed through Parliament and I don't think it's necessary." So the Minister of Health, although the law says that supplementary health insurance represents the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia and also regulates how these insurance should be regulated, he says, we do not need this law, that is nonsense. It is placed in the role of the legislative branch of power, instead of respecting the law to be the executive branch of power, it is placed in the role of the legislator and it says, "No, we will not take this into account, this is nonsense, we will go another way to solve the issue." So he decides, nothing is this public interest anymore, we no longer need compensatory schemes. And what's even worse is, instead of the Ombudsman taking up these rights and demanding that these rights be guaranteed in accordance with the law, after all, I do not know why the National Assembly, in accordance with the law, is sitting here, says that it proposes that the Government abolish the supplementary insurance and that insurance companies establish the right to private health insurance. As Minister of Health, too, the Ombudsman places himself in the role of the legislative branch and ignores this problem in such a way as to say, "It is nothing, we are going the other way." Mr Guardian, it is a very interesting finding that it approaches various issues in a different way. Even if the Ombudsman had lived in some village of Ambrus or elsewhere in Dolenjska, where there is no house that would not have been visited in a short time by a night visit to the Roma, that I would not have said dug up or anything, but not just the harbinger and the henhouse, but something else. And where it's not safe to go to school because the Rommies are waiting for you, they're beating you up and they're digging you up. And the Roma settled in the courtyard, behind the house, on the lawn, and there was no god, which he would have excommunicated or demolished. And I wonder, if I lived there, would I not also point to another problem and ask myself, "Who's driving the violence, who's causing the violence, who's causing the violence?" And I would understand things more objectively, and I would approach more fairly the problems that are in the country. And all of this is probably also the reason, this unwritten, I will say, a biased approach to the problem that we feel in you, I don't know, on what basis, visual, political or whatever, it's interesting that, in fact, the guardian of human rights, in which the opposition, which, by its nature, criticises the government, society and state, should be extremely well-agreed, should constantly support the Ombudsman, constantly speak and somehow popularize his decisions in the public. So you're experiencing this criticism from the opposition parties. Don't you ever wonder why? This is all I would like to ask you for once why you have always praised the parties of government parties, governments, those who decide the fate of citizens, and the constant criticism of those who criticise this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you. Tone Partich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u34	Dear colleagues, representative and representative of the government, respectable Mr. Ombudsman, dear Matjaž! Even so, as has been agreed upon so far, mine may be somewhat unobjective. I would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on the report, in scope and content. When it seemed necessary for many of us to tell him how he decided to vote for the Ombudsman, let me say that there were very many people in our group who did not know you. I even count myself part of the credit because I've known you since before and explained it to them a little bit. Today he knows you according to my judgment, in fact, every citizen of Slovenia. This extensive material, on which I have only two technical comments, is certainly printed in small letters so that a man of my age can read in the light without difficulty. And it would be great if it were paged, because then you can write on the side which side is something; at least my copy doesn't have it. But that's not essential. The report is a kind of mirror of your life in Slovenia, society, customers, institutions and people. It certainly aroused so much interest that we were having a lively discussion, and we also talked about it when we got it. You know very well that the responses are also because Gogol said that we are angry at the mirror when we see that our face is not beautiful. I am surprised to see that there is some bias or tolerance in this material, either to the state or to the institutions, or to some ruling coalition. The government's answers tell me that the government is not satisfied with most of your report, it has concerns, it's angry. But I have to say, as I have listened to you, and in the interview, there are also many things to be heard. I'm going to point out one thing that seems to me that I should also earn your attention. But before that, I would have told us who are sitting here, that somehow the level of debate upsets me. We've chosen the Ombudsman. I agree that we are in some system that is behind us, man, a new man will rise from man, man, how proud that sounds and so on. We also spoke more in phrases, although there was basically one desire to feel humiliated and indignant that they were also human. So I'm kind of surprised that we're talking about Slovenians and non-Slovaks and we're referring to Article 2 of the Constitution, where I absolutely don't see these distinctions, luckily. We're talking about minorities, not minorities, enemies, enemies, strangers, ours. We have a human rights guard. A man is a man. To a small man, any community, whether Rom is either Slovenian or Pohorec or his parents are Muslims, the sun shines, the same sun is absolutely equal, does not share. This man loves his mother just as much when he's in pain, he's just as scared. And I think we're talking about a man when we're talking about the Ombudsman. I think it's important to look at a person these days, but it's different. Not with the markings. You are not the guardian of the Slovenian state, as I have heard. I hope that this will only be ours, then we should change our position in the middle of the mandate as to what the state would look like. You are not only the guardian of Slovenian citizens, but you are the guardian of man in Slovenia. I guess. And I think it's worth having it in front of your eyes. I'm scared here, too. I think my colleague warned me if anyone said anything, we'd take justice into our own hands. My friend, I know very well how he imagines the right of his vision. I don't mean to be unfair, but I've been waiting for this opportunity for six months to say the following. I am sure that it is already known here, because even at the press conference, my respected colleague, Andrej Bajuk, said that whenever I vote for him, when the party decides otherwise, let's say in some time, how much time should it take to say old or not. And that, of course, I respect him. And there's, I'd say, even a bit of a guardian of Slovenian finances. But when I think back on some TV statement about how he stood here, how he said, I won't let that happen again. So it will not talk about us anymore, I became afraid if this option, which was then politically weak, when dominant, who will demand it, and if Nova Slovenije, not the customers, the image of our Slovenia will be such that we will even tell the Ombudsman, I will not allow him to say it on behalf and demand it and that. And today, some of this atmosphere has taken over here as well. The answers we have received from the international institutions to increase intolerance between us, I think in the Ombudsman's report, that we also know how to contribute to this, was not only an assessment, not a ruling coalition, not just political parties, but an assessment of the atmosphere in our country. And I do not believe how we, as elected, contribute with such discussions and with such assessments to make this intolerance, which was once not Slovenia's characteristic, in the new country, and with the development of this country becomes a feature that is also seen outside. It doesn't occur to me that he's reaching out now for the bones that have been erased, but they've been erased here, he hasn't invented a guardian, he's warned us about the constitutional court, and whatever we do, and we're going to attack Hanzka now, this problem is waiting for us. And in a few decades, if there's any democracy, we'll be ashamed of that period, I'm pretty sure. Or for the unemployed. It's okay, because you said it, and you will, and I always listen because you're so much smarter, and now let me have a simple person say something. Also with regard to the unemployed, because the guardian cannot give jobs, I suppose. However, it has a chapter on the social situation in Slovenia, on social rights. I heard representatives of my government who were angry, what the Ombudsman was now, instead of protecting human rights, was working on social policy. He stepped on one of the others' blisters. There is also no reason for this report to make all the things here, in fact, appear to be pre-eminent in some way to those who are now in power. She'll switch powers, I hope she does. Jerovšek said yesterday, as if not with the elections, but it is necessary because of the security services. I don't know how else to do it. All right, but surely we won't point to him or another option in his report on human distress. We have a report ahead of us now. I have for him, as I said, congratulations, it's not that flattery compared to what you've heard, it's no big deal because it's not even balanced. The same thing I'd like to point out is a problem I couldn't detect. We are also witnessing what I am now saying about political violence in the country. He was beaten by our fellow Member, Tone Anderlich, ten years ago. Maybe someone thought "fine," I even had a feeling about the media, and maybe even here between us. Later he was beaten by the state councilman Polde Bibič in his garage in a very similar way. They broke Peter Bozič's arm, in a fight where he spoke in a restaurant, and for the first time he didn't drink, and even if he was still drinking, he doesn't weigh more than 50 kg with a bed. I don't think he'd be dangerous to anyone because he was looking out for the guys who were wiped out at the bar. He was beaten outside. I've counted three, but I could count more if I count down the threats that happen to elected people. I have always personally congratulated and will also now congratulate the Ambassador and the committee on Friday's case, respecting also the separate opinion of my colleague Kremjar. But it seems to me that Anderlich, Bibich, Christmas is so much harder to talk about. No one was beaten because he "fucked" another woman. That would seem worth the attention, though. Because of us and the relationship in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you. Franci Rokavec, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Perhaps at this time, to touch on some of the features of this report, which I can certainly say very largely, is comprehensive, but I may miss one thing. I miss this more in the way the Ombudsman works, in responding to certain questions, problems in this society, and also in the way he engages in a particular matter. It's about questions. Every person in this country has the right to his or her secular beliefs, which, of course, must also be respected. But of course, a person in such an important public function is of course a person who has a public character and, of course, must not influence any bias or bias towards certain social problems and phenomena. In the work of the Ombudsman, I believe that you have devoted more attention to certain issues also from the definition of worldview. From your report, if we are looking at the number of cases that are being dealt with - very nicely indicated on page 147, it is clear as a white day that the biggest problem in this country is the issue of judicial backlogs, the issue of the judiciary and of course administrative matters. However, when adopting this legislation, the adoption of the necessary amendments to the Constitution was not as important as the appeal in the case of deleted. And if we do it again, you'll say we're going back to this case. The greatest number of problems, the problems faced by citizens and citizens, in particular in these two areas, is said in the area of judicial and administrative matters, according to the second most important service for citizens. I miss more engagement here. I miss more engagement because we are always faced with these problems in the Member's offices. If we do not take a step forward here, I think it will be bad for our society, that the laws we adopt in this house will not be realized where they belong and not at the right time. That's bad. Another area that I think is well described in your report is also the issue of operating time. It is clearly stated here that you have met twice with trade unions, that you have also made clear your belief that such a way of operating time is a violation of workers' rights from a working relationship, but at this point we are witnessing two things in this country. We know that the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the Act on Operating Time. On the other hand, we are witnessing trade monopolies who are also trying to create a new value-added way of behaviour and also the lives of citizens and citizens at all costs. This is a deliberate discount every Sunday once a month on Sunday's purchase and thus on the systematic introduction of different forms of life and the destruction of different customs of life of citizens and citizens. Of course through capital. In this House, we can safely face the next mandate by resolving this issue through a decision of the Constitutional Court. Here I would probably appeal that the Ombudsman does not take the side of capital, on the side of minorities against the majority, because I believe that there is an essential difference in the question that is possible in some other problems. The second issue that I think is important to raise is also the issue of accessibility to all government decisions. This is one of the most important questions. Of course, for those citizens and citizens who, of course, want to have this necessary information. This accessibility is very difficult. There's another problem. That even some of the data then, of course, are different. When there was a lot of talk today about the issue of deleted, I would say the following. Here I would expect a more independent approach from the guardian. To be honest, I repeated this several times, and all three branches of authority fell on this exam. Following such an event of resolution and failure to resolve a particular issue, it is likely necessary to find the necessary political consensus. But not to go into action before the so-called labeling, who's on the right side, who's not on the right side. Here we know that there were not only benefits, that mainly the downsides that all important actors, even of course in this process, have made. I believe that, from this point of view, and also to address this issue with a special booklet, perhaps on the spot. However, it could also have served in part to address the daily political definitions in addressing this issue. However, in this way, I again believe that we will not solve this issue in a qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Joseph Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Guests from the office and ladies and gentlemen! This report, which we received for 2003, is once again very broad and organised around the same time as last year. And when I accidentally took the report for 2002, I almost thought I was in 2003, because a lot of things happen the same way. But I could say this. I voted for the current Ombudsman, but now I'm very sorry, and I should have known that sooner. When I asked him when he came to our parliamentary group: What would you do in this case, say, to get them to know that one skeleton was buried there, but nothing was done, and the police and the state's attorney did nothing? And he said, "You know what, I'd call a press conference." But I wasn't smart enough, then I could have known there'd be nothing going on with a man like that. Okay, well, I can congratulate you on another thing, but I'll congratulate you on one thing. This report is written very well, interestingly, it could be bestseller. And my colleague, who's not here right now, who's a writer and he's so poetically described this thing, could write the whole novel based on it. But it intertwines, repeats and so on. That is why this report, I can say, is not systematic, is not transparent, there is no conclusion on what really needs to be done and so on. And politicians will not read this novel, but they will read the final findings made by the Ombudsman and will really need to be brought to life, laws and so on. When a man reads this thing, it seems to him that this report is somehow written as if the guardian were standing before a huge plank, long, with stones with big and small stones, and stopped at some of the stones that disturb him, while others pass by. And when a man looks at these things, he starts to wonder why. I find that the Ombudsman's report is very safe for him. Like any government official, they protect their backs and, of course, all these cases are in the category of politically correct infringements, like deleted, like, etc. Politically correct, because he knows he'll only get good out of it from the government, but no one's gonna kick him in the back. And it intertwines all the time here. Those problems that are still so serious, they don't even work. For example, it was talked about how the construction of the mosque or the mosque itself is being attacked, but also about a religious center that is not supposed to be within local and other regulations. But he does not take note of all the attacks on the Catholic Church and seems to agree with them. Then I'm gonna talk about fixing injustices and he's so worried about all this petty stuff, which is just fine if he's got time, but there's definitely things he doesn't do, he's never done it and he never will. And that is, for example, the correction of injustices by war people who suffered war and genocide were killed and their family members. Absolutely no word dares to say, because this is not in line with government policy, although it is morally absolute, one would say it is frightening that it is so in our country. Nothing remembers that for 60 years the relatives of those killed, and these were enormous, since 10,000 were killed or more, that 60 years did not know where they were buried, when they were killed, who killed them. Nothing. And he doesn't care. Then I look at him in the pictures in the newspaper when he goes with his child and so on, God knows if he ever remembers those families that killed their father, brothers, sisters, and so on. Does he ever remember how he would suffer if he lost his child to him? Yeah, if it's not moral decay, then there's nothing. Good. I'll finish this. I urge you to do something. Of course, you do not have room here for this matter to be dealt with, but you could see what the prosecutors were doing, what the police were doing, what the police were doing, what they were going to do on TV, what they were going to do, and what the guardian did was nothing to worry about. I'm going to ask you, what are the values of your office? There's nothing a man can do about it. And those values that you collect, so-called values, thank you for them. I think we should also say something about school, how to raise this youth, that we have so much intolerance, that we have so much hatred, that we have so many beatings, drugs and so on. Yes, sir, but where are you at with all this? I hope someone wakes up one day and they start thinking about replacing you. Thank you very much. I will not vote in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you. Bojan Kontic has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we want to raise primary schoolchildren and schoolchildren, it would probably be best if they were not allowed to watch television when Parliament is considering the Ombudsman's report. I haven't heard from her in a while. Mr. Ombudsman, your report is good. Your work, too, is good. However, I am interested because I did not notice or notice in the report whether there is ever a complaint when people refer to the immunity of political function holders when compared with them and when they find that they cannot do what some others can because they are protected. As with the consideration of the Ombudsman's previous report, I will also define myself this time in particular to the chapter dealing with complaints related to police procedures. In this mandate, we have amended legislation to allow quality, professional supervision of police procedures. This time, too, let me point out that people from year to year feel less secure and want action, including police intervention. We are also aware of this in the local communities where we live, and this is also intended to establish councils to improve the security of citizens and citizens. A generally well-known assessment is that in the interests of improved security, people expect more decisive police action. This is where we run into a barrier called a mandate, which is to act in accordance with the powers. And when we sometimes see the consequences of vandalism weakly, we are convinced that the powers that police officers have in their work are limited. On the other hand, there are individuals who find that police officers have exceeded their powers in their work and have unlawfully infringed on human rights and fundamental freedoms. This, however, can be prevented or reduced by quality control and also by appropriate disciplinary procedures. The Ombudsman also welcomes those provisions of the Police Act, which regulate more precisely the professional supervision of the police carried out by Ministry officials with police powers. Special attention was given to the Ombudsman in the report, judging by the disciplinary procedure against the individual offender within the police force. The mistakes he has identified have also been confirmed by the Director-General of Police, who has also stated that the police administration must determine whether the worker has committed an obvious infringement, his responsibility and, of course, in the event of a violation, also a sentence, particularly because this will have a positive impact on the work of a police officer. This is also stated in the recommendations of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice under order number17, which states that by decisive action in this area it will be made clear to the police that no unlawful or arbitrary conduct in the performance of tasks and in particular the production of police powers will remain unpunished. It is important for us who have adopted legislation and adopted a law on the police that the Ombudsman finds that his experience in observing the functioning of the appeal procedure within the police is not poor. Prior to the amendment of the legislation, in the complaint procedure within the police, they decided primarily within the police, and the appeal was not decided by the body against which the complaint was lodged, but by the Ministry of the Interior. The Ombudsman also agrees with this change. The rules on the resolution of complaints were also adopted before the legal deadline and represent a significant improvement compared to the previous regulations. However, as the Ombudsman points out, the true value of the rule from the point of view of an impartial, fair and effective appeal procedure will only be demonstrated by practice. However, I am pleased that the Minister of the Interior's forecasts have come true. The situation in this area has also improved, according to the Ombudsman. Mr. Ombudsman, I wish you at least that successful work in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Ombudsman, co-workers. The Ombudsman's report for the past year is indeed carefully produced. This report testifies to the fact that the Ombudsman has capable lawyers around him, a team, but also to what I think is the personal note of the Ombudsman to us that there are poor or unworked areas in him. I have to say, it shows some political involvement. In the past year, I think it has been clear that the Ombudsman of Human Rights in Slovenia cannot drive politically independent and supervisoryly independently between Scylla and the Caribbean, that he has engaged in literally political control and this has been reflected through this report. Not only is it those in the past year who have advocated that the problem of deleted persons is being resolved selectively and that in fact, in correcting this problem are not rewarded by those who have identified themselves against this country, and such cases have been proven to be treated selectively, no, the Ombudsman has merely characterised or equated them with the Nazis in Germany. I mean, Mr. Keeper, in a way, I don't know why, you say that so clearly. In a way, you also say, I'd say, don't mind, but I've heard a lot of reactions, and they don't like the new state. I know that informal dress is your position in public, but for national holidays of independence, but I know that there have been many comments in these benches that one of the state's top representatives should show some respect for the extra, not to show up, so we have estimated, in the upper part of the coach at the state celebration. This is where I think it's about profaning state symbols. Then you can also find some connection here, that there is really no understanding for those who have done this country. I was also surprised when I read this report about how you took the view that those who were long-standingly tried in connection with the so-called yoke snake, as you call you Depal you, and by the appearance of the judge or by the reasoning of the judge, you say on page 39, clearly point out that these people were not violated by human rights by making them guilty in a case that was not before the court. In some ways, journalists, or the majority of the public, felt that this was an unnecessary and unacceptable absence of a judge. That you're primarily defending those who are kind of politically on the right side. In the celian affair with the treatment of histological findings, which is mentioned here, I think two years or one year ago you asked how you asked about the fact that 3,000 people were not subjected to histological tests, that many of them died needlessly. Last year, it turned out that many of you had been affected by the death of many of them, and you answered me that you didn't think it was part of the Ombudsman's activities, and I think it was. [[...]] But here, in fact, those who were lower or had no political ties were affected. I also agree that there should be a special report if specific reports on the rights of workers are to be made. About those, let's say you haven't noticed what's being done in Maribor, what the bankruptcy administrators and the bankruptcy senate are doing. You didn't notice that the bankruptcy Senate, the presidents of the bankruptcy Senate, knowingly supported what others had robbed, thousands and thousands of workers. And these workers being cheated, rejected, these rights are not dealt with in this report, and they have not been detected. And, of course, once again, those bankruptcy judges, the presidents of the courts, are closer to a political option and it would harm this option. For this reason, I must say that it seems to me, or I would recommend to you that in the future this political control definition of the Ombudsman's place of human rights should be put off slightly, so that you can rise above it and approach equally, equally, the protection of human rights. Whether it's from the left or the right, let it be from the low layers, or those near the power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Richard Beumann has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. Dear government officials, respectable Ombudsman. We have before us the Ombudsman's ninth report on human rights, and unfortunately, I see that from year to year the debate on this report becomes more political. This is how it is today, and of course it saddens me. Of course, I agree with all those speakers who assess that the report is well written, correctly, that it covers all that the Ombudsman finds and correctly writes during the year, along with his colleagues in the office. Although I myself have carefully read that part of the Ombudsman’s report on the environment and space. I also find that this part may be somewhat less extensive. If it is less extensive, this could mean that there are fewer problems in this area and it is not necessarily a weakness. On the contrary. If there were no problems in this area and if it was not necessary to have a chapter on environment and space, I would, of course, be most happy and satisfied myself. Of course, this is not the case, and I am concerned in some way that instigators in this area have been addressing the Ombudsman's Office with similar problems for years and years. In a way, I am surprised that in the report there is a single sentence that speaks of the fact that there are still frequent initiatives relating to emissions in the course of various economic and other activities. I myself believe that this is a major problem and that this issue should be addressed in the report. On the other hand, I am pleased that in the National Assembly last year we adopted a law on access to information of a public nature which enables the public as a whole to be familiar with environmental problems, with information from this area, and in this way we have supported the first pillar of the Aarhus Convention, which speaks precisely about this - the right of the public to be informed about environmental protection problems, to decide on all matters relating to environmental protection, and not least that they have the right to judicial protection of these two rights. When I am talking about the implementation of the law on access to information of a public nature and, on the other hand, the problems relating to the law on the protection of personal data, I must say here that I very much agree with the position of the Ombudsman, who points out that we have two rights here, which are sometimes contrary to each other, and that this should be dealt with differently than is currently being regulated. I also believe that an independent data protection institution and access to public information should be considered. I wanted to say a few things, but I do not like to repeat the things that have already been mentioned, so I agree with all that has been said by my fellow Member in the field of environmental protection. However, as I have already said at the outset, the report is well written, but of course it is also for us, Members of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly, to find appropriate answers in those areas which are specifically written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Maria Ana Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ombudsman with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! That we have violence in certain families is a fact. There's nothing left to figure out. Most of the reasons are already known. That there are children who are most exposed and who have the least chance of being protected both physically and psychologically, we all know that and realize that, and so do you. The Ombudsman rightly notes that a multidisciplinary approach is needed to address this issue. I believe that the Ombudsman and his co-workers should be much more involved in organising and resolving this issue and not only at this declaration level. It should be an engine, an organiser, to create sufficient conditions for a quick and effective solution to this problem. We do have safe houses, but there's always too few of them. However, we also need to know that many times these mothers and their children go back to the same environment from this safe house. It is said that this issue is not solved at all. That is why I believe that a multi-disciplinary organisation should be organised with your institution in order for your institution to be the engine that would multi-disciplinaryly solve this problem and bring this problem to a final solution. Here I see the lack of your operation, your institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give the word to Jerica Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, the respectable Ombudsman, the Member of Parliament and the Members of Parliament, dear people! The Ombudsman's report is systematic, accurate, extensive and shocking. That's the reflection of our society. I thank Mr Hanzk and his colleagues. But I would like to draw attention to something else, something beautiful that we have not heard today and that we have heard so little. We're a happy generation. We have not experienced the horrors of war, which we still have in our memory, and which we have witnessed so close to them. Today, however, it was heard that little should be taken into account in the form of a kalashnik and other weapons in their hands. Isn't that what those who caused the wars of horrors did? True, the problem is that workers, including culturers, my colleagues, are involved. They must be happy and rich, but righteous and generous to people in distress, and I warn of this. I'm shocked at some speeches. With the help of peace-loving people, we have made progress and progress is not in calling for weapons. At least today in this report, I did not expect such an impatient battle for the prestige of power, but something completely different. I expected sensitivity to those who needed help. Our country is developing, but I would like to draw attention to the problems of women who need to run into safe houses, as the honourable Member warned me. In safe houses there is less than 10% room for vulnerable women and their children. Their problems in court are solved too slowly, for behind the walls of a safe house, where they do not even hope in the window, as I know, they can only be one year and then no one. I would like to draw attention to the shocking and disgusting trade in white goods, the victims of which are also women and children. It doesn't matter where they come from, they often take their personal documents here in our country and they have to serve with their bodies, the money of their exploiters. Let me talk about fucking paedophilia. Let me point out why a special report on domestic violence was needed. Let me draw attention to why a special report on the problem was needed. This is a very big topic and a shameful topic, and to me personally it is a disaster of the spirit of this time. Throughout the millenniums, European culture has created a decent life for man. Are we going to join this European civilization, which has a goal and a goal for a better, more patient, happier life for all? Will we join in the selfish exploitation and narrow - hearted tendencies of individuals who fight only for their own prestige? Many times I wonder if generosity to the weaker is indeed a threat to the richer and stronger. Is goodness really dangerous? Even if our guardian of human rights ends up in a humble room and others may be behind fenced gold walls, we need to ask ourselves if our people want such a world. Thank the Ombudsman for his great work, thank you for his patience, and thank all of his fellow workers. I wish you a great deal of energy to overcome human ingenuity, violence of the stronger, and patience in favor of human distress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you. I give my word to Franc Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, the Ombudsman with his fellow Members. I will touch on the report, the employment relationship and unemployment, from your report, namely the violation of workers' rights. Here you wrote that most of the initiators still want to intervene with the employer for infringements of labour law rights. From these contents, the initiatives taken by workers are still a problem in the sense that employers demand them, the high performance that employers are profit-oriented and so on. It goes on to say that the initiatives concern inadequate salaries, irregularity or irregularity of payment of salaries, then non-payment of other contributions, social protection, then termination of employment contracts, enforcement of contractual repeals of employment contracts and so on. You warn or write in a report about what employees complain about. Of course, I believe these workers have such problems. However, you have not written anything down or figured out why employers are experiencing such problems. Would one sentence define employers as dishonest, those hard capitalists at the beginning of the capitalist era, or could there be anything else in between? Just one assessment, or just a record of what the problems are, and without finding out why this is happening, is not correct for employers, by stressing once again that employees have these problems. I also meet with the workers in the office of the Member and state the same problems that they have also mentioned to you in these complaints. On the other hand, I also meet employers. These are mainly medium-sized or smaller entrepreneurs. Their story of problems is actually the one that generates all these problems that eventually turn out to be in the workforce. One of the generators of the problem is financial non-discipline. In fact, in the entire report, I didn't actually spot this segment at your place. The financial non-discipline of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and to a large extent those who work for some state or local institutions, and who have to pay the taxes, so pay the tax in 15 days, seems normal to everyone in this country, and you regret that they get their positions paid the fastest in 69 or 90 days or, of course, many times later when they have to overextend and when they have to re-issue new accounts, with new dates and only when all the deadlines have passed, you also find, unfortunately, acceptable. Under such conditions of business and operation, such employers come either to the edge of survival or to survive or, of course, to fail. Another problem for employers is that when they deal with a matter, again, of course, if they sue the state, the local community and so on, the court is not paid for - even what is found under the bond law, there is no reason that the part that is not disputed would not pay them according to the situation. However, this does not happen, and the matter stands in the courts for five, six years. And at that time - I know in particular the case of Ptujski, when the employer who did not become a craftsman after the change of the system but was a craftsman already in that difficult communist time, and this respected and good craftsman, in this rotten capitalism failed solely because he did not get paid for his work from the country. 20, 30 million for such an employer means a great deal, and it also means its prosperity or work ahead, or its downfall. I have not noticed from the report that because of this financial non-discipline you are alerting the government to irregularities and bad legislation. It is not surprising, however, that there is such bad legislation, but I did not see it in your report to warn the government and the ruling coalition that when it brings a high amount of material to the meeting of the National Assembly within three days, such as tax legislation and so forth, which is accepted elsewhere for at least a year, if not longer, but within a few hours, and of course in a fast procedure. All of this seemed acceptable to you and good enough, in short, you did not point out the origin of the problems where they arise, where they could be eliminated, but you only point out the consequences that follow. I also did not see in the report that the burden of work was too great, which we have been alerting in this national assembly for some time, and that the burden of profit is almost zero. If this relationship were to turn around, then those capitalists, who were with me 15 years ago, would be slightly less rich than the first hundred Slovenian wealthy, would still be riding with yachts, but slightly smaller, and could have significantly more employees than we have. It is true that I have warned you - and I thank you for this - that the government is reminding you that the unemployment rate, which the ruling coalition is talking about, how it is falling, how fewer and fewer people are unemployed, that these numbers are not accurate, that they are not real, because many are not registered at the institutions. And in the end, you will even find out what is good and a warning to the government, which, of course, I believe will not help. Unfortunately, these four years of such warnings have not fallen to positive ground with the government when some people actually write out their notes and comments at the employment agency in this register without letting these people read the minutes. This is a subject that I myself have been alerting the Ministry of Labour, the family, as of course the government, but these four years they have been laughing at me that this is not the case and of course they have been talking about the ILO's indices and, of course, these comparisons. Mr. Ombudsman, I am grateful for this part of you that you have written down, but it is also necessary to write down what I have said before. In this second part of the report you have made a lot of diagrams and tables, where, how, in short, statistics. However, I did not see the tables and these statistics concerning this unemployment and the labour problem in the regions. It would be expected that this problem of unemployment and these problems in relation to infringements of workers' rights are likely to be significantly greater in the central Slovenian region, where, of course, employment is also significantly higher or unemployment is actually at a minimum, as we would like elsewhere, but, according to the information and information I have, this is not true, but these problems are significantly greater in the least developed regions, this is Styria and Prekmurje, of course, also in others, especially in those addresses I have mentioned before. It would also be good to have this information, because it might be encouraged, but this is the fourth report of this mandate, in fact, it can only be a reminder to the new government that will come in autumn, that it will not repeat the same mistakes all four years, because mistakes happen and happen again, but if you do it deliberately, then that is the worst thing, which is, of course, the Liberal Democracy and the United List in this mandate, together with DeSUS, all through it has worked on purpose. In fact, it did not want to eliminate any reason for increasing these differences in the regions. In 1998, and if I recall one of your reports, when you drew attention to the law on coherent regional development and wrote that it was bad, which, of course, we also warned those Members who did not vote for it and all those four years of pressure to get a new one. However, when the government prepared the new one, it was not put into the procedure because they could not agree on or diverged in the government coalition, even though the government had prepared it and put it into the procedure. Finally, I would just like to remind you, Mr. Ombudsman, that it would be good to have little to do with the rights of Slovenians and Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians who have Slovenian citizenship, Slovenes and Slovenians who do not have it, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 5 speaks of us preparing a law for those who do not have it. The ruling coalition did not want to do this, although the law was prepared, put into procedure, and obviously, I don't know where any of the commas or dots would stand, so the only argument why they rejected such a law. This area also exists open and for the next work. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a problem that is more pressing from day to day, which is more pressing from day to day, which is, in fact, the worst of all the problems I have talked about. The worst is because it happens among the youngest because it happens among young people because it happens in the school area, both with liberalised legislation. Mr. Guardian, believe me, given the years I've had, I've had experience having kids in a school like this or a different school, all this time these last eight years have been attending these schools. In fact, children themselves are appalled at such liberal legislation as can be done. Those who realize that these things can harm them are trying to avoid this problem, and, of course, here and there are those who are drawn into it unwittingly. This encourages those who care about getting rich in their pockets, including alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, herbs, etc., not only in secondary schools but also unfortunately in primary schools. The main problem here is legislation. There's no problem teaching, teacher, shorthand teaching staff, but here's the problem with legislation. In fact, some would like to get teachers and teachers to those rooms from seven to seven at night, giving them two hours or an hour for lunch this afternoon. In short, it's a complete nonsense. But of course this can be said and suggested by those who have no idea about the teaching work, about the teaching process, who have no idea what it means and how it is necessary to engage, what it is necessary to do, so that they can happen so that lectures can be quality, content and wide. The area of education is also one of the open and pressing issues on which much more needs to be done in the future. Above all, Mr. Keeper, with your team you are expected to look under the finger primarily at the government, at government proposals that are, of course, significantly more decisive for the life and work of our citizens and citizens than when you look at the opposition. The one in the opposition has a minority, because you know he can't make any other decision, unless, of course, the electorate and the electorate of the citizen and the citizens at the referendum say, you were for nothing, it was bad, the government coalition adopted a bad law and then they change it. And that's what happened in the last year, five times lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you. Dorian Marshich has the floor for his debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I recently read that, I mean, in Britain, they allowed a school meatball. I believe that Mr Puksic would probably agree with the introduction of such educational measures in our own experience. In democracy, the ombutsman institution is protected by the foundations of these democracies. He is usually more affected by criticism, opposition, and redness on the faces of rulings. Here, however, is the paradox in our Parliament that the most attacked report and, of course, the person who is the guardian of human rights by the opposition. That's weird. In this House, some political parties, followed by some non-parliamentary political forces to achieve their political ambitions, are ready to fuel the fires of the lowest and most condescending passions, so they are willing to discredit the rule of law and its rule of law, institutions such as the Constitutional Court, today we have heard even universities and the educational system, and we have heard several times today also the Institute of the Ombudsman. A true engineering proverb, or wisdom, says: If you do not understand how it works, you do not know if something is wrong. Today, a colleague from the National Party said that we care more about other minorities than what he is, namely, a minority in Parliament, not realizing that each individual is somehow a minority here during the 1990s. I answer him only by not having an indigenous minority in this House, it is a minority, it is small or it is large as the electorate gives him the votes. And this is what some, or at least most in Europe and even here in Slovenia, call democracy. I would like to give this place an initiative which I think I have already told in Parliament to Mr Hanzk, the Ombudsman, in thought. In order to propose, within the next mandate, amendments to legislation in this area in such a way as to establish an institution of the Ombudsman at the regional level, for example, in administrative units. They know this in the European Union, it is effective and, above all, the Ombudsman is closer to people, more accessible and more aware of the problems that arise primarily in the relationship of people to state institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Aloys Sok is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Respected Guardians and Fellow Workers [[Although he's not here right now.]] Oh, my God! First, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I must express a protest against what our fellow Member, Mr Partljič, said. [[which is not there at this moment, but I hope he hears]] . I would not expect a culturer and writer to attack the President of New Slovenia in his own way, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, and to dispute his statement here, when none of those present know what he actually said and what it was. So much for the intro. Second thing I want to say. This report by the Ombudsman is extremely thorough and should indeed be commended. Of course, he's still missing a lot. It could be even more comprehensive. In fact, I see it as a textbook of my own, I might say, a terminological dictionary of violations occurring year after year in the Republic of Slovenia; in fact, things are more or less similar. Interestingly, this year - to - year book is even thicker, more complex. It is hoped that one day she will begin to grow thinner, which would be the desire of all of us and probably also of the Ombudsman and all of his fellow workers. It is gratifying that, according to 2002 the Ombudsman notes that there are fewer violations in many areas, such as constitutional rights, personal freedom, social security, labour law [[It is also mentioned here that there are fewer cases than the year before.]] , then in administrative matters themselves, the environment and the space, in the housing area and the protection of personal data, as well as in all others not categorised in these. I'm afraid that maybe this reduction can mean something else in practice - otherwise it's not explicitly written anywhere - that in fact people might start to turn less into the Ombudsman at some point in time precisely because they experience that their problems are not being solved in an adequate way. This would be one of the options, because, as a Member of Parliament, I must say that in the office of the Member of this office, the fall of causing various injustices in various areas, I do not experience. On the contrary, people are increasingly turning to us Members, especially in the field of work, they are calling for work legislation. [[However, it is written here that these matters are becoming less and less in the guardian's office.]] . Since much has already been said, I decided to read a letter sent to me by one of the younger entrepreneurs [[Maybe you got it from another guy.]] . This is not in the report itself, but I would also like to draw the attention of the Ombudsman to an area called the state regulation and which, of course, is largely the fault and responsibility of this national assembly. This is what it says: We are a medium-sized, fairly successful company that deals with various activities. As the owner, our main concern is that we pay 40 employees in the month 15 and make a profit in doing so. I ask you why the decline of Slovenian companies has increased in the last year. In the National Assembly, you regularly adopt laws that are written to many people on the skin and not to many. We in small businesses are trying to follow and adapt to legal changes more or less quickly. We admit that it is not always as fast as the last articles of laws and regulations record it. The inspectors and state control authorities who are in companies are a major problem before the official sheet is well cooled. In our company, in the last year the hooks are handed to the inspector, literally meeting market, tax, sanitary, labour, and not only once, but not because we have bad business, they say that we are in line, in addition to hanging up a lot of legal changes that mean unprofitable investment to meet the legal conditions, you hang all kinds of inspectors who have to earn their salary by punishing us. You hang us, it says, new taxes, new security requirements, ever-new institutions. To date we have abstained, unfortunately we are afraid that soon the employees will be transferred to the largest Slovenian company Employment Institute, which will be richer for our 40 workers. In the company, we will no longer be partial to all these pressures followed by legal requirements and inspections. We have spent a lot of time servicing inspectors in recent times for these and similar tasks. All the money you spend on the development of Slovenian companies is, in fact, already being spent by institutions that in some way would help our companies and not help us. In the last year, there were no inspection services that did not visit our company, imposed on us such and different decisions and penalties and, most importantly, took a good part of the time for us employees in the company. This is one of the things that the Ombudsman should also face in our economic sector and should or should probably have the opportunity to point out in some way in the future. And to end, just one more sentence from your book, which you have fully processed, is domestic violence. I think it's also a form of violence, which is what it says here, and I must say that I disagree with such records. On page 48 you wrote: "For centuries the Catholic Church has taught that it is a sin if a woman does not conform to her husband's desire for sex. Even in such refusals, the wife’s duty was to report her confession. Thus, such coercion is institutionalized in society as a custom or even as a religion. I, Mr. respectable Ombudsman, because the Roman Catholic Church is not here to defend itself against such and similar charges, I do not think it is necessary to write such matters because they are not true. I don't know where you found out about this, and I think that, in fact, such and similar records contribute to impatience in our society, so, too, this is my recommendation, if you consider it as a guardian, in the future you realize that you are not causing, I don't know, a revolt in certain civil society institutions with similar records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. It's a waste. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Hanžek with his associates. Once again, I would like to talk about the Ombudsman's ninth regular report on this path from a slightly different perspective. Indeed, I have already said, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the report or report does not indicate all the critical points at which an individual comes into conflict with the State or the State does not have an appropriate attitude towards it, but I should simply repeat this because it seems to me that those who expect in the report everything they see in this society as a problem or as a different policy that they imagine they should be in this country cannot be covered by this report for a simple reason because he has clearly stated in his explanation of the forms and manner of work of the Ombudsman that he was solving specific initiatives. I am very embarrassed if, among the 3208 initiatives he has had, this is one of the figures, or 2827, as far as he has concluded, he should decide to choose those who would draw my particular attention and might give my consent or disagree with them. It is precisely because of these individual cases that the Ombudsman has to deal with that may cause us to lose the feeling of what weight, what problems or initiatives the Ombudsman’s report receives. I should therefore like to point out that the statistics do, however, indicate that the cases the Ombudsman has dealt with are the most relevant in the field of justice, work, family and social affairs and in the third place of the environment and space. It was also possible to hear a different conclusion that certain areas were neglected. Once again, on the one hand, it is necessary to read the Ombudsman's report as a reflection of concrete initiatives and, of course, the Ombudsman is allowed the possibility whether it is also one of his methods of work or even his rights to choose those areas or those problems that he wishes to point out as particularly noticeable during a particular period of time. And if I were to judge after 2003, then I certainly think that his warning is on two issues, that is to say, the growing intolerance about the construction of the mosque and the problem of the deleted, is what the public and politics have chosen most in the past year. If I add a special report to this then, but now I am not conducting a substantive analysis of the report, a report on domestic violence, then it seems to me that at least three of the key things that our society has faced in the past year are covered. What I would also like to point out in this second part of the report is that the Ombudsman reminds us that, compared to related institutions, the proportion of well-founded or partially justified cases is still very high. In 2003, among the 3087 cases, 11.4% of the cases were substantiated and 12.2% were partly substantiated. This means that it is expected that the public’s attitude towards the work of the Ombudsman would also be favourable because in one fifth of the cases, however, he found that the requests of the initiators were justified or partly justified, although he had to say that there were no conditions for them to deal with the case or almost 14% of them to say that the cases they referred to did not fall within his competence. It is these statistics that, to some extent, also show the Ombudsman's justification for finding that the level of information on human rights, as well as the level of information on what the Ombudsman's powers are, is still relatively weak, so there will be a lot of work to be done in this context. Now let me respond only to one of the criticisms the opposition has put in place. However, I must say that 70% of all resources allocated to active employment policies are aimed at those areas where we see less development and a greater problem of unemployment. So to speak, this political option that I belong to is completely insensitive to social problems and unemployment, but it is already a little severe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Evil to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. A year ago, representatives of civil society gathered in the full-blown hall of the State Council. And there's this mother -- this actually happened for the first time in such a large auditorium -- told her calvary with a completely immature man, a mean man who beat her, who broke her jaw and so on. There are many such swords here in Slovenia. But it's not that man's problem, it's not that man's problem, it's his mother's problem, it's that problem in society. When she was going to the hospital, when she was going to the hospital, they said everywhere, "suffer, surely you are guilty yourself," and eventually it turned out that she broke her own jaw just out of spite to avenge her husband. In Slovenia, people live in black spots and do not hope to tell themselves what is happening to them. As we look at our satisfied people who think it's all right, if the wife is liquid and tiny, she gets twice around her ears to remember. But let us hope that we come at a time when a woman can raise her voice. As for other things, I must say, as usual, Hanžek and his team did a great job. However, as I would say, we don't really have much to say for those of us who are reading and agreeing to it. But the majority of people who get excited about it, it doesn't matter. Now I would say just a few things that are still exactly the same as they are, and they haven't changed even by a millimeter, although the Secretary-General of the Government has already intervened several times with Drago Čepar, who is the director of the Government Office for Religious Communities and who has also been critically mentioned by the Ombudsman. Religious communities received money that no one else but the Catholic Church received. Drago Čepar, director of these religious communities, spent all his money giving it to the Sturm Hunter, so that Lovro Šurm could write a text for all religious communities inside. It turned out that for a million tolars Lovro Sturm wrote one text, from which it is mainly important to move a believer to school. The government office for religious communities has become a purely Catholic dispatch, as far as that is concerned. Here we have another story, which has nothing to do with the Catholic Church, which it is, and I think it is good that the Ombudsman put it also in the report, i.e. I will just quote, four lines "This is how we were surprised by the reaction from a number of judges to the claim of their German colleague who, at the end of the three-year project cooperation between Slovenia and Germany, felt that there was no progress in the mentality of Slovenian judges. This relevant statement by a foreign expert, who has clearly given his views in good faith, has led to a sharp reaction that, due to similar impatient statements by Slovenian judges, damages and sentences are being paid. Even important cases arise, such as the treatment of the perpetrator for a crime of sexual assault against a person under 15 years of age. In a criminal case before a district court in Celje, the indictment was filed on 13 January 1997. Although only one hearing has been carried out so far, the new judge was unable to explain even in the summer of 2003, due to a large number of other difficult and extensive detention cases. Following the Ombudsman's intervention, he ensured that the main hearing would be called for in the first quarter of 2004. So seven years after the indictment was filed. What does such a burden mean for an injured person who has to wait long years for an epilogue of justice do not need to be highlighted in particular. In August 2003, the court handled objectively resolution cases since 1995, 1996, which means eight-year delays. I don't have a say in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Mamić. Time is spent on the Group of Members, I apologize, Mr Mamić. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Ombudsman and my colleagues for, in my view, an objective presentation of the problems in the realization of human rights and, at the same time, for some encouraging warnings that, year after year, the reports of the Ombudsman in the National Assembly and in the Government have made some progress, are unsatisfactory, because as long as one of these unfulfilled things remains, it will not be good, because every infringement for an individual is certainly one that is the greatest, no matter how objectively others may be. In this regard, I would also like to say, in view of the criticisms that have flown against the Ombudsman by my fellow Members, particularly from the opposition, that I am aware of the manner in which the Ombudsman works, and I know him through the system. That's what my colleague Maja Potrate was talking about. It is right that anyone who criticises what the Ombudsman has talked about and dealt with would see nothing more than a look at the indicator, but from the indicator how many different areas of action have been addressed, including the issue of social policy, labour relations, the judiciary, the functioning of the administration, the police, and questions through the special report given to us, violence in the family, as one of the problems. To talk about a problem that is not covered widely means whether you have not read it or simply do not want to accept objectively what it is and how it has been dealt with. And the proposals for the decisions I support are prepared accordingly. I know that they were also working in the parent's working body in cooperation with the guardian's representative. I personally believe that the Ombudsman has tried to have the most corrective and equal approach to problems, regardless of whether they are issues that are explicit, I would say in one way or another related to the work of one ministry, the ministry, the service, justice and the like, and that it is impossible and unfair for him to read any bias in this direction. On the contrary, I would like to say that I have heard a lot of bias in today's debates. It was still argued that the National Assembly was not more careful, including the Government and the Ministry, until constitutional decisions were resolved in a timely manner. We have received all the reports of our service, which shows that we have become more careful and that we have only a few cases where we have not really solved them, and each of them can be talked about, whether the fault is true and solely in the National Assembly. Kerrecimo, and I'm not going to say he's the best. He's talking today about a constitutional decision on the reorganization of the Koper municipality. It's very difficult. It is formally true that this decision exists, but it is very difficult to talk about this when there were two referendums, both referendums had a markedly negative response when double elections were held. What do we do now? This is, say, the oldest decision. Otherwise, the majority of decisions are those that need to be implemented on a case-by-case basis. It would be good if the opposition gentlemen, when they think of it, would be willing to look at some of the facts. It is similar with the problem of being erased, since none of us treats them with special pleasure. We're all ashamed to have these facts. However, it is essential that there is a difference in this part compared to other phenomena. What's the easy difference? The difference is that, at times, only the government and the National Assembly express the Ombudsman’s warnings of willingness to deal with the problems and to solve them. In this case, however, we have almost a double number of decisions by the Constitutional Court, which the policy does not ignore, but is organised and does not want to execute. This is a violation of human rights. That's a big difference. And it's normal for a guardian to put such a thing more thoroughly because it's impossible, and I understand that it's embarrassing for colleagues and colleagues who do it, but it's true and it's important to say that we didn't know how to find a way to sort things out gradually. I'll be very grateful if you suggest a consensus. Only Mr Rokavec proposes long-term consensus, which means the failure to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I don't know, this probably isn't the starting point when it was clearly said so many times. It's a matter of court. I think that this is really one of the most serious issues, in the way that Mr Zląbec said it or in the way that we have dealt with it many times, because it is impossible to talk about protecting any right, personal, property, in mutual relations, if you are waiting for it for a few years or even a decade. However, I think it is right to remind us that, at the time of our consideration of the report on the Ombudsman, the President of the Supreme Court also warned us that there are sometimes some reasons for this in our conduct. Speaking of violations, 5,000 laws provide for violations. It's impossible to do anything, and we have 160,000, 200,000, and so on. When we talk about legislation, the President of the Supreme Court warned us that the law we have adopted is my view on this content, about the return of funds to invest in telephony, potentially means 20,000 new complicated disputes that will be resolved for years and years. What have we done with denationalization? And yet and then we're surprised that we have clogged courts and that things aren't being solved. And the last. I thank the President of the National Assembly for the mild warning of the debate, which was hostile, which could also have meant a lack of attitude towards a group of people who are also citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Moreover, they have human rights that are dealt with by the Ombudsman and I am ashamed that in the National Assembly we simply allow such relations and relations to ours, I would say, fellow citizens and others who live in Slovenia, because this cannot be a good journey for our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kelemino, please. Mr. Kelemina, don't you want a word? Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much. You know, sometimes you really wonder if I have any sense of doing this here and talking. Well, he probably does. That's why we're here. That's why I'm going to be alone, even though I've been thinking a lot before this show, whether it makes any sense. We today - a man unwittingly gets such an impression - judge the Ombudsman of Human Rights and finally turn "finger up or down". That's wrong, of course. That's wrong! Can you hear me? Of course, full ears are something. It's wrong for someone to imagine that the guardian is the whip of the opposition. That's not it. And if someone thinks it's wrong, of course, he thinks it's wrong. The Ombudsman is the guardian of human rights, and let these people be Slovenians, to be Tuki, who live here, to be Roma or Gypsy, as says Comrade Jelinčič, because he does not go Roma from the language, to be Styrians - I hear - to be anything; whatever is said to him by man must be protected. And he must protect himself from authority; and that is why there must be a misunderstanding, because it can do the most - but not only this! These include injustices and intolerances and intolerance, and how much more can a word matter be said and it is not necessarily an act and it is not necessarily a paper and sometimes a word is worse than paper, worse than an act and a word spoken in a national assembly, is worse than a number of decisions, which must also be pursued if it falls within the category of errors of a system. And this must be pursued by the Ombudsman. And the case of the deleted, to mention it, is just a story that seems somehow reversed; the opposite is that the system defends human rights, the opposition, if I say so, is against it, and now there is a big question that the Ombudsman also advocates as a system, as a position, as a constitutional court, as well as others. Yes, because it's about protecting human rights! And that's it! And when we realize that when we realize that there is not anything against anyone to say about this House as well, it is, unfortunately, that many times it has been said and that the Ombudsman must also keep an eye on it. And I think that the institution of the Ombudsman is doing this well and satisfactorily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everyone. First of all, I would like to read some of the quotations from this report by the Ombudsman, where it is written among others: "We have stressed that the public are part of the State authorities, their openness and transparency, which are realized by the possibility of accessing data of a public nature, are important elements of a modern democratic and legal state. With adequate information, openness and control, the confidence of citizens in the work of national authorities and the work of the whole administration is enhanced. If their operation is closed, there is more chance of irregularities, abuse and corruption, which ultimately reduces their effectiveness and confidence in the public." That's part of it. "In the protection of human rights, the media play a key role. There are four fundamental functions of the media, namely information, interpretation, socialisation and entertainment. The role of the Ombudsman is to contribute to the best possible democratic media policy that serves the interests of the people. Thus, mass media should be used to inform and sensitize individuals and not manipulate them." And also: "In this respect, the media bear great responsibility, because they can benefit or harm individuals and groups with their powerful influence." This is how he wrote in individual segments of his report to the Ombudsman. The fact is that the National Assembly is an important part of the public authorities, and we are also facing some problems here, not only with the implementation of the inspection decisions concerning the work of this National Assembly and the violation of the rights of employees, but also that we are considering socially the most sensitive points, such as the various reports on abuse, ownership and so on, at an entirely inappropriate time. Secondly, we note that adequate public information is not ensured, since as one of the few European countries, we do not have direct transmissions of the meetings of the national assembly on the public television network. Respect for these rights is a European standard and enables citizens to have a direct and irreversible view of the work of the legislative authority, of the views, of the work and conduct of individual Members and of political parties. This allows citizens to create their own image of the state of political space in the country independently of their interpreters. It is clear to whom it is in the interest that citizens are deprived of independent information on important issues that determine and decide the course and direction of their lives and affect their destiny. Direct television broadcasts from the National Assembly are the only independent political and informational broadcasts that our citizens, as one of the few in Europe, do not have. Public television is a key public policy leader, a key public opinion maker, and it is therefore unacceptable that it is not able to include practically free transmissions from the National Assembly in its programming scheme. But there is enough time and money to pass on various Emmas and other expensive glamorous shows. According to data received a few days ago in the RTV development strategy between 2003 and 2010, it is clearly stated that the share of reports and journals in European public television is between 10 and 14% in the old Europe, while in the new countries, say Hungary, is 8%. There's only 4% of these in our RTV. This means half less than in Hungary and twice as much as in the rest of the European Union. Then we can also be surprised that our citizens declare when they are being polled that they are not familiar with certain or many things at all. A large part of this 4% is still summaries and comments, i.e. directed, interpreted, moderated or processed content, and it is clear that information to the public is dosed that our public is much more manipulated than any other in Europe. And this part of our public television is open and democratic only virtually. Given that some members of the RTV Council are irreplaceable and have in the past performed the functions of the presidents of political parties, then we can be very concerned about the quantity, quality and correctness of public television reporting; one and the other, the amount of the programme and supervision is a precedent in European practice. In the RTV strategy until 2010, the Institute also wrote the interest of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in individual programming content and far the greatest preference are information content, more than 90%, that, for example, the popular science gives only 75%, sports 65%, in short, exactly the content that citizens miss most and need, is not available in this media space and is not available to them. However, the question is also, given what I read from the Ombudsman's report, why does the Ombudsman, who is extremely sensitive to a number of issues, not respond to these problems, why he does not advocate for these rights of citizens who must finally be paid out of his pocket? This is actually one of the fundamental issues with regard to information. Minorities also represent an important part of the media area, notably the disproportionate financing of the media between minorities. And here we can say in public that there is a significant difference in the financing of the Italian national minority compared to Hungary. Essential; several times perhaps even a tenfold difference. I think that the Ombudsman should also take a certain position in such areas and, in particular, with regard to Slovenians around the world. The second question that I intend to touch on this report is the issue of housing, particularly social and non-profit housing. The fact is that the construction of these dwellings is far behind the needs, and the incentives are not quite sufficient and large and are more or less left to the interests and abilities of individual municipalities. In addition to the compulsory security, the housing law, which aims to solve housing problems in the weakest part of the country, has allowed the law to register, at least for half of the apartments or about half of the apartments, its own participation. It is clear that the vast majority of the weak families of these assets, at the level of some 10% of the value of the apartment, cannot guarantee, since, in addition to having poor wages or even having them, the majority of these families are also not creditworthy and money can only be made available in the grey market, so the rest and continuation of the story in this area is more or less clear. This part of the population has almost been taken care of by the country, and despite the strong words of the district minister, this part of the population has been completely eliminated. It's about disabled people, it's about young families, it's about unemployed people, it's about single-parent families, and they don't have any chance of getting homes. More than 20,000 social and non-profit apartments are missing. We build them around 600 a year, and if we're just trying to fix things, we need about 40 years. In short, an enormous amount of time. However, the trend is poor and, despite stagnation, this problem is still growing. At the time of the adoption of the housing law, we have proposed more supplements to provide special assistance in solving the housing problem to those who are most difficult to reach. Also later, because they were not adopted, we also filed a correction of the housing law, but everything was rejected. And I am surprised that our proposals did not come across the Ombudsman's response, given that he is also extremely sensitive to social issues and to the protection of the weak in this area. And I believe that the Ombudsman should make much more use of his moral strength and his weight and for the groups that I think feel extremely threatened in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My word to Mrs. Majdo Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. In fact, I would just like to repeat something that is likely to be answered by the Ombudsman, because today, I understand, he is on the sad bench, not the system he is watching. This is some kind of conversion that we should not be happy with, but we should probably not even take it as a practice. Because today, the Ombudsman is asked whether you have even chosen the right topics, whether you have been making a priority among the topics, whether the cases you are dealing with are in the category of politically correct solutions; why are you dealing with cases that are less serious and not addressing those serious issues? In short, the National Assembly today sets up a completely self-sustaining vision of what the Ombudsman Institute is, and of course it grieves me. After all, the benefits of your mandate from publishing, from trying to motivate and understand human rights in the common sense and their acceptance among people, as I understand your mandate, of course, will also be an advantage for this place, because it is a kind of awareness of human rights knowledge, while here you are told by your colleagues that you are publishing brochures that are in the service of daily political issues; by knowing that you are publishing or publishing a copy of information material that is in the service of human rights awareness. And thank God you're successful here. You have also been told that you are not a good liter if your report is not supposed to have a tail or head, is to be unsystematic, has no conclusion and is even written in a style that is safe for you. The fact that the report is "full of flossule" - I quote only today's debate - and that "it is burdened with idealism", even with some kind of revisions, why there could have been a union or a certain group in your conversation; this is said to be questioned by your fundamental principle, which is actually the constitutional principle of work, is disturbing to me at this moment an empty, almost empty hall, as of course the work of what the report entails, which would in fact be valid today and should be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Finally, we have exhausted the number of Members and Members who wanted to debate, and representatives of the Government can also speak in the end. I would like to speak with the Secretary of State, Mrs Alenka Kovšca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the government has already submitted a report and further clarifications on activities in its part of its response to the Ombudsman's report, it would focus only on the document that I had unfortunately received only yesterday, "Violence in the family", "The way to a solution" and was not covered by the government's comment. That is why I would like to say this: as the Ministry of Labour, we will respond primarily to the first part, this is chronology, because we estimate that some of the statements are incorrect and that this would be an integral part of the publication later. Otherwise, it was repeatedly explained in the debate that it would be good if, of course, we had a law on the prevention of domestic violence in Slovenia, which I fully agree and put a lot of effort, work and energy into this. The Council for the Prevention of Violence against Women, as an advisory body of the Government, met 26 times. Two analyses on violence in Slovenia are prepared, one of which was prepared by the world and the law itself. And, of course, it is difficult not to go past the fact that the Ombudsman is critical that this issue is not yet settled and, of course, there will probably be some consensus here between what is possible and what is not possible, given the human resources, given that some legal solutions concern other areas as well, and that certain professional coordination is ongoing. I really hope that this law will still be open this year, given that some organisational issues are still open and that in this regard the national social protection programme needs to be changed and the resources provided for the staff and the institutions envisaged are not only sufficient to adopt the law, but also the future organisation. But because I am just in the area of violence, I cannot help but admit that violence is not just a problem in the family, violence is also a social problem, and not just that. In this national assembly, I think those who use words that call for intolerance, but a large part of their responsibility, carry words in their own vocabulary. And the reference to the nation, to the vocabulary of the higher-a-minority is, of course, the same. And I would say only one thing at a time is that the question of humanity or the future of humanity will not depend on identity, but on mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, when I listened to the debate, I must find that some Members either did not read the Ombudsman's report or they did not want to read certain things on purpose. I think I can probably find out the same thing about the government's opinion. Let me say that the government is aware that some problems have not yet been solved. There are certain problems, which are also, if I may say so, of a systemic nature and which are also faced by other, more developed, more economically powerful countries, more democratic countries. For example, if we look at the back of the court. This is not just our country's speciality, it is a problem that we face in modern society. I would like to say that, above all, it is important that the Government wants to regulate things, that the Government is taking action, and also in this mandate, as far as the situation and the situation in the judiciary are concerned, that many things have been proposed, from laws to organisational rules, and that you Members have been actively involved here. I agree that the Court's reaction to Doukoff's statement may have been too severe. We, too, as the Ministry, have been surprised, but the judiciary must also open up and, in terms of the implementation of the system of brakes and balances, must only critically turn to itself. Since the measures proposed by the Government, the Ministry of Justice, are only legislation adopted by the National Assembly will not be sufficient to address this problem. Here I would also like to point out that it might be useful, in the context of human rights education, to also have a special chapter on education not only for judges, how to conduct procedures to be effective and short, but also to educate individuals in this country in order to educate them in the direction of tolerance. Well, when we meet in court - when we're in a conflict situation that we can't solve in a peaceful, balanced way. We know that we have a series of instruments: mediation, various prior settlement. Unfortunately, these forms of conflict resolution have not yet produced enough results, so we would like to strengthen human rights education in this area, because there is a tendency in our mentality to make use of all legal remedies, regardless of whether, for example, the Court of First Instance or even higher courts has confirmed a decision. However, it is in the minds of people that some procedures need to be followed to the end. Of course, we can only change this through consistent education in this area, not only of the population, but also of those who are in charge of the proceedings; this is where I think of judges and public servants in administrative proceedings. Because we also know in the administrative area that we are dealing with backlogs, especially at a second stage, where we have customer complaints. With regard to the protection of personal data, let me say that this new Personal Data Protection Act has just been adopted and that in this context we foresee that the institution will be independent and that it will also be regulated, in what way and in which cases personal data can be made available. Let me mention that the observation was made that all state authorities do not have a report from the Ombudsman. I can ensure that all ministries, all government departments and all administrative units have this report to read, and that they are also obliged to respond to the irregularities identified in this report. Last but not least, this report is also on the Internet, so here I believe that this observation is not justified that the state authorities would not have this report. Of course, the question is whether all those who should read this report are reading this report too. There was an affair regarding bankruptcy in Maribor. Let me mention that this affair cannot be an integral part of the Ombudsman's report for 2003, because this affair took place this year. And it is likely that this case will be under consideration in the following year. Nevertheless, let me say that the government and the ministry have taken immediate action here to resolve this problem, and have also proposed the withdrawal of licences from those random managers who have violated the law. It was also determined by the higher court's official control over the work of the district court, so things are happening here and this is also, in my opinion, groundless. With regard to the observation that the Office of the Ombudsman is a government service, this is a matter of ignorance of the system. The Ombudsman is an independent institution, a constitutional institution appointed by the National Assembly with the greatest necessary and possible majority in that country, so that I do not understand this debate. In fact, given the fact that the government does not agree with all the Ombudsman’s findings and that there is a lively conversation about these matters. I also announced that the government or some ministers would have a conversation with the guardian, where they would clear up these different views of a particular problem. And I think it's good that it's necessary that this is so, because if the situation were so that there were no conflicting opinions, then we could really say that someone might not be doing well their tasks entrusted to him. I think that in this particular case the 2003 report can only be found from the opinion of the Government that we have different views on certain problems. It is true, though, that solving some problems also depends on other factors. It is not that the government or the National Assembly would not have the will and desire to solve problems; some problems are objective; they are dependent, I don't know, on budgetary resources when it comes to the construction of social housing. This country has a limited fund of funds, and there is a need to find options for optimal solutions under this fund. Thus, some problems are of an objective nature, but I think it is particularly important that the will of the Government and the National Assembly is to take steps forward to raise standards and levels of respect for and protection of fundamental human rights. Let me also answer Mr Partljic, who said that the government is angry when we receive the Ombudsman's report. I can calmly tell him that we are not angry, but that we are considering that we disagree with some of the findings. And it is right that we do not agree with all the conclusions, because if we agreed and did nothing, such a policy would not be good. The introduction has already said that the government's opinion is also the most extensive one so far, indicating that the government is really looking at the Ombudsman's reports in detail. The Ombudsman was also invited to a government meeting where we further discussed all the problems he cited in his report. And I hope that it will also be in the future because, what is the purpose of the government - to ensure the best possible life for the citizens of this country, not only for the citizens of this country, but also for all those who live in this country together with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And after almost five hours of discussion at the time of the consideration of the report to the conclusion of the report, I invite the Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanžk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank all Members and Members, including the representatives of the Government, for all the comments. In this short time, I'd like to take some answers. Above all, it seems to me that it was quite similar and I will be able to give answers in the group. To begin with, he should return to a word that was uttered horribly. Ambassador Jelinčič said - because I find it terrifying that someone can take the institution of parliamentary immunity in a way that calls for lynching, and I find it horrifying that when they talk about bilingual inscriptions, they condemn some people just as much as fascism. That's what I have to say. I expected, even though I wanted to be wrong. But we're moving on. I also do not like that many members and members of the National Assembly do not know what they have adopted in the Law on the Ombudsman so many years ago. If they don't know, most of the time, they're always in our reports. It was said: The Guardian does nothing, does nothing to these people. The Keeper can't provide anyone. I am sorry, but the Ombudsman must also respect the law and the law does not give him any executive power to give anything to anyone. The Ombudsman only warns and please let you accept it, but you can change the law, but we will do otherwise, unfortunately, I also have to say that most of the things that are wrong in this country cannot be guarded by something else; the Ombudsman has no right to do what institutions do not want instead of other institutions. The Ombudsman can only warn, demand and everything else, and the institutions must do so themselves. If the dark ones do so, the government must act, if the government does not do so, at the end of the action the National Assembly will act. That's why we're here. But I have to tell you, without defending myself, but if something's wrong, it's not the guardian's fault, because the guardian can't fix it. But we warn you very much. Next, according to the law that you have enacted, they are, as a rule, investing in the Ombudsman's written initiative. Many times I think that a number of Members say the problem here is the most important problem in the world, and this important problem is not so important that in one year he will write a written initiative so that we can deal with it. Then again next year he said to the guardian again: you did not do this. We don't know, that way we can't work things out, we work on data, we work on information that we study, and then we give our opinion, we never give our opinions flat-rate. And the third thing is, even in law, the Ombudsman does not generally consider initiatives, things that are violations that are older than one year old. Certainly not those who are 60 years old, which we cannot deal with - the question of graves and we have already written about. And here I go. When I was told that I felt the same way about gypsies, luckily I didn't take that as an insult, but a compliment. Let me first explain why there are different emphasiss on the different topics in the report. For the first time, there are different emphasiss and different themes, because in some areas there are more complaints, fewer complaints, and this is not the main issue. There are also complaints, or violations, that are more important than others from our point of view. And a third. We are also giving different points because some flights and years are repeated and it is completely pointless or believe me, already boring, one and the same to write a lot, and then we decide to give it a little bit of emphasis this year and just mention that we are doing it and give it to someone else. But that's for us to decide either because of the current or just because we've come up with it. In any case, I must tell you that every complaint we receive is taken equally seriously by Slovenian citizens, gypsies or anyone. We take every man the same way. Since it has been most obvious to me that I deal too much with the Roma, the mosque, and the deleted, I must say that it is those who read it to me who are doing it themselves. This chapter contains one page on the Roma, one page on deleted and eleven rows on the mosque. That's less than 1% of the 250 pages. 99% of the entire report talks about all other things. And to tell us that we only deal with these, is at least what it is: whether people haven't read it or not, or they don't know how to count.I'm sorry that I'm sharp, but I can say something too. Special reports. Thank you for not agreeing. We'd like different reports, too. In addition to giving different emphasis to different areas, we wanted to make special reports more studyable and from the parts that we have already done. I agree - here I agree with you, Mr Barovic - that there are no others yet, but we depend on people, knowledge, everything. Since this is an additional work by my professional colleagues, I cannot force them to do anything for free that is not in their job description at all. We are also preparing for the police, we are also preparing for children with special problems, and it is likely that it will be confirmed that we can still deal with discrimination, including with social rights, that is to say, discrimination on a socio-economic basis, which I believe is one of the worst in Slovenia. Let's keep moving. Three more minutes, I'll be there soon. Again, it was clear to me that I had compared the Slovenians to the Nazis. I also gave the same public answer to that public question in the newspaper, including the answers in a few columns. My statement was like that. The referendum was discussed as the most democratic institution of democratic society in the world. I said, "I disagree" and I gave an example: "If in Nazi Germany in 1937 we had a referendum on the final settlement of the Jewish issue and this referendum would succeed, Nazism would not be any less Nazi." When I was challenged to compare the Slovenians with the Nazis, I never did, I said two cases from history: Socrates also sent most of the referendums to death, I don't know how many thousands of years it's been so bad for the Greeks, and Jesus too has been crossed by an angry majority, and so the referendum is one of the most democratic institutions, only it has to be corrected by human rights. Come in. Then there's still a lot, two minutes. Mrs Tisovic, I agree that we need to talk about domestic violence, but it is so that the Ombudsman can only warn, we have become very involved in this, but these things must continue to be done by the institutions responsible for this and which have thousands of employees. By the way, I'd like to take that look at the text of domestic violence - Mr. Sok. This report is a set of reports that have been made one floor lower and does not reflect every report to itself exactly what the Ombudsman thinks, so that there is an author standing for that statement, which I think I will not say right now, or I will not talk about it because it is not essential. It is indeed a state's failure to pay - it is also a marginal problem of the guardian. We have written several times about an unequal relationship, equal power between the state and individuals, and so is that. Obvious supplementary insurance. That's all I have to say. Five years ago, I published in the Human Development Report what will happen if we introduce additional insurance. At that time, I wrote that only introducing additional insurance on the basis of the market mechanism would lead to the exclusion of people who are poorer, old, sick and so on and I am and still oppose the introduction of additional insurance. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] [[Now, let me finish my sentence.]] Comparative schemes are aspirin for someone you hit on the head. Let's stop running it, shut down the supplementary insurance, and we don't need insurance schemes. That's why I gave my opinion, and it's clear that the National Assembly has the right to do something else, but we're gonna have a headache. I wrote it myself five years ago and announced what would happen now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Guardian. There was a lot of debate. There's still some time left. If there's anything else you want to answer and explain, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u74	Non-payments, Mr Puksič said - otherwise he is not here - about the state's failure to pay for them to contact him. Let the man say what I said before: let him report to us so that we can analyze what this is about, what the state is responsible for, putting a company in bankruptcy, because it does not pay what it should pay. I never agreed to that, not all of us. Mr Pukšič also spoke about statistics of the unemployed and those by region. Unfortunately, I know statistics so well that I know it would be wrong because we have different numbers from our complaints; they are not equal to the number of unemployed in the regions. And if we were to divide it across regions, we would probably discriminate and even show that there is more unemployment where it is not, say, more complaints from Ljubljana than from Prekmurje, and I also wrote about regional discrimination in Slovenia in the same report, but from another job, from another address. Do we have anything else special? I think I've responded in general to the deleted, the mosque, Romi. [[...]] Yes, as far as the religious community is concerned, it has also been said, I agree that it is wrong, but for three or more years we have been warning the Office of Religious Communities that criteria must be drawn up and that it has not produced criteria for the registration and distribution of money. The Office for Religious Communities has not only defended this until even the Secretary-General of the Government has issued mandatory instructions that he must do what he has to do. How this is done, we will not discuss it. It's not like that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. There's 10 minutes left. Would anyone else like a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. As no amendments have been tabled in the proposal for recommendations, we will vote on the recommendations in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 10 minutes after the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Ombudsman and colleagues, allow me to thank you for your cooperation. Mr Guardian, and especially from this city on behalf of Members and Members, because we are completing our mandate and I think I can say on behalf of the majority. Many of your reports have also led to our work as we carried out the task of overseeing the work of the government. Thank you very much and I am sure that cooperation will be as constructive as it is in the 2004 and 2008 mandates. Thank you very much. So I interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item, second defence - Proposal for an Act on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments and Internationalisation of Enterprises. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u76	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to briefly present a proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses. As you know, there has already been a general hearing in the National Assembly, and the law has also been supported on the Committee on the Economy, so I will be brief and will only take the key, fundamental starting points. We are trying to establish an institutional framework by means of this law to promote foreign direct investment in Slovenia. It is about trying to encourage those investments that are in our strategic interest, which create new jobs, with which we also want to achieve positive, so-called "spill over" effects, so to speak, the transfer of technological knowledge, management and engineering knowledge to domestic companies. And to successfully compete in the acquisition of foreign direct investment, the government has proposed this law. The law defines concepts relating to the activity of promoting foreign direct investment and regulates the planning and programming of the implementation of foreign direct investment. It also provides a legal basis for direct financial incentives for foreign direct investment. A key feature of the law is the establishment of a public agency to carry out activities to promote foreign direct investment and internationalise business operations. In doing so, I would like to point out that this public agency will take over both the employees and the assets of the already existing agency for economic promotion and foreign investment, which acts as a body within the Ministry of the Economy, which means that we are creating it as a public agency with the aim of also obtaining funds on the market, particularly as regards the internationalisation of business, and thus not only obtaining budgetary resources but also funds on the market. It is possible to establish, on the basis of an analysis of economic eligibility and with the consent of the Government, an appropriate representation abroad within the composition of a public agency. The financing of direct investment promotion activities is foreseen, as is the case worldwide, from the budget. While promoting the internationalisation of business operations, as I have already pointed out, we want and are able to introduce a gradual coverage of costs also by direct users. I would like to point out that these financial incentives that we give to foreign direct investment should also be seen as investment in new jobs that have a rapid period of return in the form of taxes and contributions, [[with these investments]] we also allow our suppliers to be involved in various business acquisitions. Above all, it is important for Slovenia to establish an institutional framework; such as the rest of the European Union, with which it will be able to compete for the attracting of foreign direct investment that creates new jobs of high added value, because Slovenia cannot compete on the basis of cheap labour to some other Eastern European countries and we do not want to compete in this area. We want to make investments with high added value, which, of course, allow higher wages at the end, but of course require employees with adequate higher education, which we remember is our advantage over some other Eastern European countries as well. Finally, I would like to point out that I am very pleased that the debate on the Committee on the Economy has been very constructive, and all those involved have highlighted some of the concerns that we have been able to resolve in a constructive way. I believe that this law is a very good and important basis for promoting the faster development of Slovenia, that we will also be able to make the technological breakthrough we want easier under this law. As I have already said, I would like to thank you at the end for supporting this law so far and I hope or hope that, given that there are no amendments to adopt the law as soon as possible, it is said that within that time limit of 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee to present the report. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Vice-President. Mr Blaž Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u78	Dear Vice President! Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 49th meeting, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law as the working body. In addition to the proposal for a law in accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments of the LDS' parliamentary groups, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS were forwarded to the Committee by Articles 2, 3, 7, 11, 15, 20 and 21 and to the fifth chapter. In addition, members of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat and Master Blaž Kavčič have also tabled a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 14. In the debate, the Government once again warned and explained the circumstances which are important for the consideration of this law, especially the fact that Slovenia, by entering the European Union, has transferred all powers in relation to trade policy to the community and will also lose certain powers in the field of monetary policy by taking over the euro. That is why industrial policy is so much more important. Government representatives have also assessed that the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups and individual Members have contributed to the improvement of the text of the legislative proposal. The content of the supplement on the Committee itself was, in particular, that the second paragraph of Article 14, in its basic text, provides that the representative of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises may carry out activities to promote internationalisation only if the seat of that representative is located in a city or in an area in which the Republic of Slovenia does not have diplomatic consular representation. The amendments were of the opinion that it is not appropriate to prohibit by law solutions that have proved to be successful in practice and that the tasks of economic departments, diplomatic-consular offices and representatives of the Agency should be complemented, but not excluded. The Committee has also adopted this amendment and has included it in the amended draft law. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you confirm the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 36th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, Thursday after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State very much for his cooperation - on this point, they are also involved in the next. And we're moving on to Treatment 7. Agenda items - Secondly, a proposal for a law to supplement the law to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idria. The draft law was tabled by Mr Bevk. I give the text to the applicant for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, the House of Respect! The 1490 mercury mine in Idrija is one of the oldest mines in Europe and was considered the second largest such mine in the world, right behind the Spanish Almadena. All the major mercury mines in the world are closed today. Idriski is in many ways special, because it is located directly under the city where more than 6,000 people live. The mine has not been exhausted and experts estimate it still contains around 10% of the world's mercury reserves. In the last 200 years, the excavation took place throughout the block, so that the mine was opened with 15 horizons before the production stopped. The total length of maintenance trenches was more than 150 km. In total, 700 km of trenches were unearthed under the city of Idrija in half a thousand years, representing the distance from Idria to Berlin. More than 144 thousand tonnes of mercury were produced in Idria, representing 13% of the world’s production, and a total of 12 million 757 tons of ore had to be excavated. For commercial purposes, 107 thousand tons of mercury were produced. More than 35,000 tons of mercury, however, represented losses that remained in the environment. When the mine was still in operation, they calculated that they could build 8 nuclear power plants in Krk or 142 ski centres in Canin with money from the mercury sold. As a result of the drop in prices on the world market, production was suspended at the beginning of 1977. The mine was loaded with the maintenance of facilities and installations in such a state that a possible renewal of production would be possible if prices on the world market were to rise. Production would have been reduced in 1983 and definitively stopped in 1995 and a decision had been taken on the gradual and definitive cessation of the production of ore in the Idrija mine. In the second half of the 20th century, the fall in prices of mercury on the world market resulted in major ecological disasters in Japan and Iraq and elsewhere in the world. Major poisonings of methyl mercury in the Japanese Gulf of Minamat and Niguit, where there were thousands of people, in Iraq more than 7,000 people, and elsewhere, especially in the underdeveloped world, have caused scientists to start seriously studying the harmful effects of mercury. In 1970 - 1974, the prices of mercury continued to drop tremendously. That living silver is still an ongoing problem not only because of the closure of the Idrija mine, but also because of other consequences, the fact that at the end of June and early in July this year Ljubljana hosted the seventh international conference on mercury as a global polluter, attended by about 7,000 scientists from around the world, who produced over 650 reports. At its meeting on 24 June 2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy considered the draft law as the working body and adopted it after a thorough discussion with some amendments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has upheld the law. At the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the government position was presented by the Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik. The main purpose of the amendment to the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine, which I introduced into the parliamentary procedure in early May, is to ensure the operation and financing of the mine even after 2006. On the basis of the revised long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine for the period 2001-2006, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in December 2002, the cave part of the mine will be completely closed by 2006. However, it will also be necessary to continue to maintain the watery part of the cave, the museum mine and monitor until the research shows that this is no longer necessary. Short-term monitoring will last for five years and long-term for ten years, according to a total of fifteen years. In addition, the law also includes the rehabilitation of mining damage and the improvement of health care for about 800 former miners. The law also provides for the restructuring of the company in order to carry out the above tasks. The issue of radioactive radiation is satisfactorily addressed in 2003 by the adoption of a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. Let me mention that two children's kindergartens in Idria measured significantly higher levels of radioactivity in radon. One of these kindergartens has been rehabilitated and the other one has been issued by the competent health inspectorate for the implementation of the rehabilitation. On the basis of the Government's opinion, the issue of ionising radiation has been removed from the law, I expect that the government, as set out in Articles 45 and 46 of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation, will also provide funds for the rehabilitation of kindergartens. As regards mining damage, it will also be necessary to revise the laboratory produced by the local Idrija community in 1992 and as a basis for determining the extent of the injury. Therefore, the aim of the law is also to determine the actual extent of the mining damage. The mining damage started to be paid in 1996, and since the mining damage will not be fully settled by 2006, it is very important that the rehabilitation of this country has become a legal category also in this special law. The proposal for a law also seeks to regulate the possibility of having at its disposal the work of the state assets of the mercury mine Idrija, in accordance with article 80b of the Public Finance Act, in order to allow for the free transfer of part of this non-mining property to the municipality of Idrija. This also allows Article 21 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development and Article 418 of the Law on Economic Companies. With regard to the transfer of property, the principle of State responsibility for the removal of the consequences of mining in the municipality of Idrija and the partial compensation of the consequences of mining for the population is taken into account, also by the free disposal of that state property, which has been managed and maintained by the local community for a long time due to the needs of its citizens and citizens in its territory. Such a solution, while circumventing the primary principle of the prohibition of state property free of charge, allows for the exercise of the rights of the local community, which has long cared for and managed assets. In the light of the Government's amendment adopted on the Committee, the transfer of unnecessary state assets to the municipality will take place only after the liquidation of the company. For the government was not willing to give in and allow in law the possibility of immediate return of property. When the return will actually take place, it is still premature to speak. However, there is a real possibility and established practice so that the mine can gradually return land and property to the Idrija municipality itself by means of a decision of the Supervisory Council and the Government. In the last year, the mine returned to the municipality a mining cultural hall that has been used by the city for decades for cultural events, the Avmec Square. [[?]] and the technical monument of Yašek and Sagi [[?]] However, the following transfers may be subject to land on which a urban cleaning plant is built or a popular sports recreation area in the middle of the city of Idrija itself. In each national budget, it will be necessary, after 2006, to provide for existing and amended legislation to provide financial resources for maintenance works in the non-oiled part of the cave and facilities and infrastructure on the surface, for monitoring, covering geodetic, jammer and ecological measurements, for addressing the consequences of mining damage, for restructuring involving removals and redundancies of miners, for the health care of former miners and for the maintenance of the tourist mine. The transfer of the real assets of the mercury mine Idrija to the local community after the liquidation of the company will not have direct financial implications for the state budget. The funds for closing works in the mine and for mining damage are already provided in the 2004 and 2005 budgets. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to confirm the proposal for a second reading. And since there is no amendment, I propose that a third hearing be held within the 24-hour deadline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I invite the rapporteur of the Committee to present the report. Mr. Vice President Blaž Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, Idria, was considered by the Committee of the National Economic Assembly at its 49th meeting. The Committee was also provided with a positive, largely positive position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the proposed law, which also contained certain proposals for amendments to supplement or amend the content of the law on the Committee itself. In addition, the Committee received a positive opinion from the Idrija Congregation concerning this law. In the debate, the members of the Committee on the Economy found that the local problem covered by this law is comparable and, in particular, transparent. The fact is that there are more similar cases in Slovenia, we have a uranium mine Žirovski vrh, lead mine and zinc Mežica and so on. Therefore, the same system should apply to all and the government should be the main actor, which is also the bill-maker. Of course, there is also an expression of the fact that such issues in Slovenia have so far had to be regulated in a very specific way, since the expression of the principle has not yet reached its fullest point, that it should fully answer the consequences of economic activity by those who have caused these consequences, but in the preceding period even to a large extent have to enter the country. Parliamentary colleague Sam Bevk also agreed in the debate that the issue of protection against ionising radiation was sufficiently addressed in the sectoral law adopted in 2003, and there was considerable discussion on the Committee about the free transfer of ionising state property to the municipality, where it was stressed that the adoption of the provision in the proposed text would establish a new system of transfer of property between the country and the municipality, which would not make sense. There would be direct intervention by the State in the company's assets. In view of the above, it is necessary to support the Government's amendment, and so was the position of the Economic Committee, which regulates the transfer of State property in a systematic manner. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered all the amendments tabled and adopted amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 1 and 3 and the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats to Article 2 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 3 to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee has adopted all the articles and all the amendments adopted are included in the supplementary draft law which forms part of this report. I propose, on behalf of the Committee on the Economy, that the proposal for a law be adopted in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. I would like to take the floor with the Minister of Economy. Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! As has already been mentioned, Mr Bevk, a Member of State, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law that we are considering. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the proposed law is that it agrees with the essential starting points of the law and supports it, but of course it proposes to its wording certain amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3. We are confident that these amendments will solve this issue in the most appropriate way. The substance of the amendments to these amendments, if only briefly summarised, is that the Government proposes not to adopt an extended mine closure programme with measures and environmental protection activities to all residents, because it is in some sense pointless to extend this law to a part of the population that was not directly linked to mining in the Idrija mine. They also reject the proposal to extend the content of the law to protection against ionising radiation, as this is already duly regulated in the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. The current situation is such that if, on the basis of systematic checks, the exposure of individuals to natural radiation sources is determined that natural radiation sources result in excess of the maximum dose, the Ministry of Health will, of course, take appropriate action by the competent ministry, in this case the Ministry of Health. Since this is already regulated by the law I have mentioned, we feel that it is unnecessary to regulate it in this law. The Government also proposes that all assets be transferred to the municipality of Idrija only after the procedure for the regular liquidation of the mine has been carried out, but not earlier than proposed, since this would in fact mean the decommissioning of the legal person. Of course, we believe it is reasonable to transfer to the Idrija Congregation all properties that concern public good. It's plumbing, schools and the like. You know that this transfer is already being implemented and we want to settle it with this law, of course, it is real estate. But it interferes with public good, in what is essential for the normal functioning of the congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Vojk Celigoj, who will present to us the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Idrija is a town that is closely linked to the tradition of mining, since it has been marked through its history. The mercury mine gave the city the status of a regional centre and so the city developed and expanded. According to the number of exhumed tonnes of mercury, Idri represents 13% of the world's production. The fall in world mercury prices in the second half of the 1970s was the beginning of the end of mining in Idrija, as they gradually abandoned production and its final closure is foreseen for 2006. The proposal for a new law before us deals mainly with how to solve the problems related to the mine that remain after the closure of 2006. This is mainly about ensuring the operation and financing of the mine and environmental recovery due to the consequences that have or will continue to arise. At this point, it should be stressed that these problems also relate to problems related to improving health care for former miners and other residents. In this regard, we regret that the Government represents a negative position on the possibility of financial intervention under this law to help people in the event of health problems caused by the service in the mine or the area of the mine in which they live. We are convinced that our concern for our people is more important than, I stress, too loyal and too quick to adapt to various EU commitments. If we look in the neighborhood, we see that a few EU Member States have been able to combine both interests, this is to provide people with what should be in the interest of each country and at the same time to meet the essential criteria that such a community agrees and requires. At the same time, we agree that it makes sense to transfer unnecessary state property to the municipality before the process of the regular liquidation of the mine is carried out, even exceptionally. Although asset transfers are already taking place, they are taking place too slowly, so it would make sense to speed them up. This could be achieved by the adoption of this law. There is another solution to the problem of the transfer of unnecessary property from the country to the municipalities by adopting a specific law to regulate matters at systemic level. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to similar problems, including in other places in Slovenia, which we are facing. We also face similar problems in Illyrian Bistrica, where I come from, where we see that the country does not care enough about abandoned facilities. Because the facilities are in very poor condition, it would make sense for them to be cared for by a congregation that has a greater and more direct interest in them than in the country. We all know the country is a bad master. Apologize that it's economic behavior, they won't hold. The building at home JLA in Illyrian Bistrica, the current cultural home in which no investment has been made for at least ten years, is visibly falling apart and its value is reduced every day. Today, this home is probably only worth 50% or 50% of its former value. That's probably what Idrian's doing. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support solutions that will regulate and prevent the actual and possible consequences of mining in the mercury mine in Idrija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I invite Alojz Soka to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Very briefly with two sentences. We in our parliamentary group do not oppose the proposal of this law. And, of course, we don't mind being tabled by a Member of the United Nations. We are aware that, in so far as this law is being tabled by the New Slovenia MEP, the situation would be reversed and that the United List and Coalition would object to such solutions as this law foresees. But in our Group of Members, we are convinced, as a constructive opposition, that if any Members can help to solve, even if it is a local specific issue, it is necessary to resolve it in one way or another. We agree with the government's view that the financial implications for the country with the law cannot spread indefinitely. For after all, every Slovenian congregation would then like to have some kind of gold pit from which funds would be obtained from the state budget. On the other hand, we also agree that a country of land that does not bring any value is free of charge to the municipality and thus gives the municipality the opportunity for economic development if, as a good host, it expresses its interest. So in our parliamentary group, we will not oppose the bill tabled by the Member, Mr Bevk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u90	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no specific legislation on mining and mining activities at the level of the European Union. Indirectly, this area is covered by general environmental legislation. If we are trying to assess slightly the closure of the mines of the Member States of the European Union, we can see that almost all Member States of the European Union have the primary purpose of abandoning mining and rehabilitating the provision of public safety and health and environmentally sound conditions. The purpose of early provision of mine closure funds is to avoid adverse consequences at the time of the actual closure of the mine, when the company would not or would not want to provide closure funds. Research has also recommended that the State have a special mine closure law, as this is how one competent administrative and organisational unit is set up to take full care of this area. These general guidelines were also followed by a law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine, which regulated the relationship of common importance with regard to the gradual closure of the mine and the provision of funds. On the basis of this law, the Government has adopted a programme to close the mercury mine, which is still under way today and is expected to be implemented by the end of 2006. In the UK Group, we support the amendment of the law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine, which seeks to ensure the operation and financing of the mine even after 2006. The bill states that even after 2006, it will be necessary to continue to maintain the watery part of the cave, the museum mine and monitor until the research shows that this is no longer necessary. The aim of the amendment is also to determine the actual extent of the mining damage after 2006, since it will not be fully settled by the end of 2006 and therefore must become a legal category in this amendment of the law until recovery. The proposed law, Mr Bevk, also sought to regulate the possibility of having the works of the Idrija mine in accordance with article 80b of the Public Finance Act, in order to allow for the free transfer of part of this state property, which is not in the mine closure function, to the municipality of Idrija during the mine closure function and not only after the liquidation of the company. Unfortunately, the proposaler did not receive support from the government and the Committee on the Economy in this part of the amendment. However, the majority of those present on the Committee on the Economy have pointed out that in practice it is true that in the implementation of Article 80.b of the Law on Public Finances, and things are often going absolutely too slowly. This is particularly noticeable in military facilities which are no longer in service and which the government would like to sell off, and for various reasons it is impossible to do so, which is why the facilities are failing and causing damage to both the state and the local community. The view was expressed that it would be more reasonable to transfer them to the congregation as soon as possible, provided that they had the appropriate programmes for their development. The desire was also expressed that information on the implementation of Article 80b of the Public Finance Act should be obtained from the Government or the competent authorities and that certain measures might be proposed to the Government on the basis of this information. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Bevek Act has expressed very well the way in which the problem is addressed, in a comparable and transparent manner. We also accept the fact that similar cases in Slovenia are quite something and should all be subject to the same system, but it is also true that the government should be the main carrier of a transparent way of solving this problem with an appropriate legal proposal. From this point of view, we will therefore support, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the amended proposal for a law on the completion of the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine in the Committee on the Economy, as it was submitted for today's adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! Ensuring the operation and financing of the mine, maintaining the indemnified part of the cave, the museum mine and monitoring for security reasons are the main and fundamental objectives of the law supplementing the law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idri. And with all due respect, Mr. Sam Bevk, you say you care for your place and that you are a bill-maker. Why did I say that sentence a little later? With their amendments adopted, the government reached out to the health care of the population. We have heard of this by reasoning that the health care of the inhabitants of Idria is regulated by a special law or law on ionizing radiation and only by miners. And, of course, it also intervened in the amendment to the proposal to transfer state or mining property to municipal property, from the basic proposal before the regular liquidation into the dictatorship after the regular liquidation procedure had been carried out. I have spoken with Mr Bevk, the proposer, saying that this is also acceptable and therefore I will not intervene in the decision if, of course, they are acceptable. Allow me, however. I'm sorry there's no government representative, but I hope they get a magnetogram, or they'll check what's been said. I return to the sentence when I said, "With all due respect, Mr Bevk, that you are taking care of your congregation and that you are the proposer of the law," of course, because I come from the mining sites myself, and if I add, for example, the Mežiški valley or the uranium mine Žirovski vrh, Zasavje and, last but not least, it is in Velenje's history and finally Idrija. Is it not fair and proper for us, colleagues and colleagues, to warn the government at the end of this mandate that it would be right for the government to draw up such laws so that the government can unify them in order to be a unified starting point for all the closing works, for all the principles and principles that must apply in the field of mining, which is rich, rich in Idrija, rich in Zasavje, rich in Velenj? There has to be a holistic approach. The government must take care of this, a single law with the same starting points or starting points that are uniform in the original, and from there it respects the difference between whether it is a mercury mine or a mine of brown coal or whether it is a uranium mine or a lignite mine. That'd be right. Let it be a warning from the Slovenian National Party to the government that, however, there is nothing wrong with saying that if the applicant is a Member, however, the government must make a single programme, a single starting point and a single direction, because we will always refer to each other. You can do this without worry. Also in the case of the transfer of state property to municipal property, including at the time of this transfer in the case of, value transfers. I think it is right that the starting points are one, that the state knows and will know fully what it will do with the property, I am talking about the entire assets it has in Idrija, and with the assets it has in Zasavje and with the assets it has in Mežica and with the assets it will once have in Velenje. Certainly, we will not oppose the draft law in the Slovenian National Party, and I want it to be implemented and implemented in its content.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Branko Kelemina, position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! In our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not oppose such a bill, even the contrary, I think we can support it without any reservations. For, surely, if not elsewhere in our Slovenian Democratic Party, we defend the principle or support the guidelines that everywhere there are people, because of historical or other circumstances, or even if you want, stupidity is deprived of a normal life today, so that they have to be helped by all means, and we should not be sorry for any money. Above all, they are not to blame for the situation of the younger generation, their children today and also future generations, that we must suffer the negative consequences, which could also be caused by the different behaviour of those who had some plans far back in history and even in recent history, of any other interest in solving these things differently. Surely, money in such cases and any other compensation that can be made in such a case must never be regretted. However, a few of us are surprised that all of these problems, which are taking place in this area and in other areas in Slovenia, have been heard by several debaters, that such problems are not perceived by the government and that they are not addressed in a timely manner. We're very surprised. What kind of government is it that doesn't want to solve such important problems? Or I would like to postpone them to some later generations, and I would like to do so after meals, when it would be appropriate or when it would be of special political benefit. There can then be no Member from an area or whatever, who is probably more pressured by people than by the government, because they know that if any of these issues arise, they must then propose some solutions, and then also by the government at the final stage, they are not actually accepted. They offer some good solutions and instead of the government with all its resources, with all its goodwill, with all the interest it has at its disposal, and with all the resources it has at its disposal to approach the opposite and try to solve some of the problems in some environment as conveniently as possible for those people, then with all the administrative obstacles and also with inappropriate interpretations of the law, and so on trying to hinder these things. It's incomprehensible to us. Here, of course, is the thought of handing over those objects and so on to municipalities and lands and all other things. Our assessment is that it would certainly be necessary for all such areas, not only this one, but also the other, in Slovenia, to do something really systemicly, and the government should resolve this as much as possible once and for all, by allowing these areas to be truly as generously as possible, if I say so, and by providing financial resources and all the other resources that have been made available to enable these people to then continue with their own initiatives, with their own energies and inputs, then to continue living normally and that it would not be necessary to return to the National Assembly again and to ask and pray again and again, as if they were asking for mercy or anything. This is their right, this is their constitutional right to enable them to live normally, as are other citizens elsewhere in the country. Quite a few critics need to be said on this account. In fact, at the final stage, this proposal is welcome, and we will certainly be at least in those parts where it remains, because there is something positive for these people in this area and we will certainly support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by mag. Blaze Kavčič, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u96	Dear Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! This new text of the bill, whereby only Bevk replaces the original text of the law of 12 July 2002, was assessed in the Liberal Democracy as a good proposal, of course, in conjunction with government amendments, which we believe are their task exactly what was discussed on the Committee, namely a unified approach to solving similar cases elsewhere in Slovenia. We have seen the basic purpose of this law in ensuring the operation and financing of the mine even after 2006, when the cave part of the mine will be completely closed; even then it will still be necessary to maintain the watery part of the cave and museum mine, as well as to monitor the environment with geological, hydrological and geotechnical measurements. However, a uniform view of the examples such as the uranium mine Žirovski vrh or mine in closing in Mežica, where it is also a transfer of property to the municipality of Črna - the common denominators of these projects are that the transfer of assets is necessary and possible there are certain conditions, among which it is crucial that the transferred property be used for public good, not for commercial purposes. However, the view of our club is that it is necessary to make clear whether it is a direct transfer of state property or whether it is a matter of having the resources of an undertaking that may also be wholly state-owned, such as the case of a mine in Idrija. On the other hand, we believe that the mere fact that certain assets are owned, in the particular case of the mine in Idrija, should not in any way mean that that part of the funds that are already unnecessary for the recovery of the business process should not be transferred immediately to the use of the local community. Of course, this does not require law and it is not even possible to transpose these things by law, but these things can and must be implemented as quickly as possible by the authorities of these specific undertakings. Therefore, we also expect that, in the case of a mine in Idria, measures will be taken in the coming years, gradually transferring unnecessary funds to the local community for the business process. Therefore, the current text of the law should not mean that the transfer of funds is being hampered in any way. With these amendments supplemented or amended by the law, in the LDS Club, it seems appropriate for us to fully support it, and we expect that, as soon as possible, the necessary funds will be transferred to the local community in Idrija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! The purpose of the drafter of this law is clear: the extension of the country's presence in terms of financing a long-term recovery of the consequences of multi-century mining in the Idrija mercury mine, and the bill also includes the rehabilitation of the environment, which is degraded due to the impact of mining, and more than that includes improving health care, not only for former miners, but for the entire population in this environment or the city of Idrija. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the purpose and purpose of the law. However, we believe that what we have also made very clear on the Committee is that the State can assume its obligations in accordance with its financial capacity and that it must treat or act in the same way as this case in other cases in which the consequences of mining, such as the Mežica lead mine, uranium Zirovski vrh, coal mines are eliminated. The bill is also directly transferred, free of charge, to the municipality of immovable property owned by the State, by a provision of the law. Such action by the proposer is mainly understood by the unreasonable and all too slow resolution of property issues against local communities by the state's authorities. However, it is such a way of joining a type of domino that will trigger numerous attempts to resolve the property relationship between the country and the local community by law, which is not the best solution. With the amendments prepared by the Government and adopted by the Committee of the National Assembly, these issues or dilemmas, which were also raised in my previous announcement, are resolved. And the draft law contains much more systematic solutions than the proposaler followed. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the bill's proposal. However, for such laws, systematic accession would make only meaningful proposals by the state or government. For example, to suggest something similar in one part of the non-systematic, say Mr Kelemina to remedy the consequences of mining in Senova or Mrs Lavrič for Mežica, the government would have a categorical negative opinion without any serious justification. I'm just reminding you of the approach. The government is acting in this case because it does not understand, because I think the government has come with amendments, which made the bill acceptable in terms of acceptability. But this same government or minister of this government for finance is aware of what such an approach represents in terms of the financial capacity and burden of the country and the "post festivals" will, of course, come before Members with a letter reminding them of the consequences of the financial implementation of this law. In this context, I say that a government can propose such a thing to a larger one, but certainly not a Member, of course, it can, in accordance with the Constitution, position, but it makes no sense. Regardless of that, we will support a very responsible law. However, I know that it will have to be very similar in other cases, so the amendments of the government are also perfectly reasonable and acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, Thursday 15.7. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to Treatment 8. DOTS OF THE DAY - This is on Secondly, a proposal for a law on higher vocational education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I very much welcome her representatives among us and give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gabru, for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has submitted a law to be dealt with with with with a number of objectives. First, with the desire to renovate higher vocational education in line with the Bologna and Copenhagen Declaration and the documents accompanying these two declarations, the credit system of the study has been set up to provide a basis for this law, allowing for a more normal transition of those who complete higher education, even later to higher education and possibly if they continue and prove their knowledge there, including university education. In line with this aim, we also want to enable the issue of an annex to a diploma in a foreign language. All this is necessary because of this bologna process. At the same time, we want to increase the autonomy of higher vocational schools when organisational units are within school centres, which is very often the case in Slovenia. We think it's okay to keep it that way. With the autonomy of higher education institutions, however, we want this education to be internationally recognised, to count these loans in the international transfer of credits, to strengthen the competence of decision-making on higher education curricula in the relevant professional world. As with the Higher Education Act, we also strengthen the position of students and students in decision-making at school level and also at state level, we define the care for the development and learning of Slovenian. This solution is also practically identical to that of the Higher Education Act. And we are establishing a single system to identify and ensure the quality of higher education as part of tertiary education. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to formalize all the grounds for studying in this part of the study process for that part of the population, which now counts about 12,000 students and students, and is a typical example of decentralised organisation of tertiary education, to be conducted in accordance with modern trends and please, if Parliament could also adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u101	I give the text to Rudolph Mohet, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, who considered the draft law to be the working body of the mother. Please present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, nice to meet you. It should be said that the Committee has drawn up a law by first listening to the representatives of the legislative and legal service, if it is harmonised. These included three key comments. The first was that the conditions and method of distance study in Article 38 are not defined. The second was that the question of the competence of the Chamber to prepare some of the administrative tasks referred to in Article 50 was disputed and that the procedure for determining compliance with the conditions and the procedure for entering the register was not regulated. Thirdly, that it constitutes the repeal of the provisions of the laws in the manner provided for in Article 64, a violation of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, as it causes ambiguity and uncertainty as to the actual extent of the repeal. The representative of the Education and Education, Science and Culture Union questioned the appropriateness of the composition of the Committee for Accreditation of Higher School Study Programmes, for which representatives of representative trade unions were not envisaged, and therefore suggested that the latter should also be allowed to participate in this committee, which was taken into account by the members of the Committee with the adoption of their amendment. The representative of the Slovenian student organisation, however, pointed out that the proposed law, despite ensuring the openness of higher education, does not contain provisions on progress from higher to higher education. However, he expressed his support for the amendment of the Committee, which gives all students and not only Slovenian citizens the right to stay in student homes. The members of the committee supported the proposed law and expressed some concerns about individual articles. Firstly, Article 30 provides for the registration to be made on the basis of an invitation to tender, with public schools to obtain the Minister's consent to the number of places of registration and for private schools the number of places of registration to be determined by a call for tender decision. Some members of the committee felt that such a dictatorship discriminated against private schools and suggested that the status of public and private schools should be levelled. Secondly, Article 41, which gives the right to stay in a student's dormitory only to Slovenian citizens, considered that most members of the committee were discriminatory and that the committee corrected it with its amendment. However, Article 46 provides that the student's status shall cease if he does not graduate within 60 days of the end of the second year, which is considered by some members of the committee to be quite short. The representative of the proposer replied to these concerns as follows: As far as the legislative and legal services comments are concerned, he said that the term 'distant study' in Article 38 of the European documents already appears, for example, in the European Commission Memorandum on Lifelong Learning. This is a form of exceptional study supported and co-financed by the Ministry. Article 50. The management of the register and the registration procedure at the competent chamber should be regulated by a special provision, as provided for in the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education, that the Minister responsible for the economy should determine the manner and procedure for the management of the register of study or teaching posts. And thirdly, higher vocational education is incorporated in the entire education law, so that Article-by-article orientation is imprudent. Regarding the opinion of the student organisation on the offence, however, he said that the promotion from higher education to higher education was regulated by the Higher Education Act, which sets out the way credit points are recognised, and by individual higher education programmes, which set specific conditions for progress. As regards the questions raised by the Committee, he stated that in Article 30, it is not a matter of discrimination against private schools, since if the Minister agrees with the number of places of entry as provided for in the invitation to tender, he also assumes responsibility to ensure conditions for them. Private schools must, however, prove the conditions for an increase in the number of places of entry in the proposal for an amendment to the notice. And also, the graduate internship, as we know it in higher education, is a Slovenian specialty that we never knew. The study programmes are designed to be completed within two years. However, within the additional 60-day period laid down in Article 46, the student may carry out any outstanding obligations and complete studies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Committee has adopted as many as 18 amendments to the LDS Parliamentary Club, the United Nations Letter Group and the DeSUS Group of Members and seven of its amendments in the report. It should be said that the Committee has prepared a complementary bill, probably very good, because no amendments have been tabled. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I propose to the honourable Members and Members that the proposed law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u103	That was the committee's report. Thank you, Rudolph Mohet, Chairman of the Committee. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. The position would like to be presented by the Youth Party. Because Peter Levich is not here, Marko Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Higher Education Act, which we have before us, is due to the so-called Bologna Declaration. As has already been said many times, the introduction of compatibility of studies and educational titles with the European space, which is a fundamental objective of the Bologna process, will have a positive impact on student, teacher and even worker mobility with universally recognised diplomas, and consequently on increasing the European integration of knowledge flows and the speed of scientific development. However, as with the amendment of the Higher Education Act, we must point out that, with principled advantages, we must not close our eyes to certain negative consequences that can affect education and society if other measures are not followed by reform. We see a potential danger mainly in the flow that the dominant would take in a direction from Slovenia and would not be balanced with the arrival of foreign students and experts to us. We believe that the current situation in the field of higher and higher education in Slovenia is neither software nor practically interesting for foreigners. Only the outflow of students and teachers can lead to the programming and human resources impoverishment of some of the study directions. The current reform process focuses only on structural changes, and the fundamental substantive issue of the competitiveness of our education is not being overly addressed. We can expect that the law, which is now under consideration, will facilitate studies and pass on short periods of study at least for those students who do not intend to continue the study at a second stage. In recent years, while we have seen the decline in the waiting period of graduates in their first employment. However, let us note that this decline is still too small compared to other developed Western countries. Taking care of our graduates is still too weak. There are many legitimate fears or concerns about how, in an environment more or less free movement of the European Union's labour force and mutually recognised educational titles prevent experts from going to countries that offer more attractive professional, business and financial conditions for work. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the bill. We believe that it is a good law that will enable students to achieve the desired education. The study at the university must contain sufficient basic theoretical and applied knowledge, while students must develop a critical opinion and awareness of the importance of professional, moral, national and cultural, humanistic and environmental awareness. The desire for Slovenia to become one of the most educated societies in Europe should be common to all of us. This will, inter alia, be achieved through a free system of higher education and a good link between the economy, the government and universities, the successful provision of external and internal evaluation of higher education and favourable social conditions for students. Promoting young people and educated people to cooperate with Europe, increasing the competitiveness of the economy affects growth and development of the whole of Slovenia. Today, we all know that in the knowledge society, the main part of the excess value means the top-notch, scientific, research knowledge that is applied in top-notch technological innovations. At the same time, appropriate spatial and communication conditions must be provided. The State has now not committed itself in this area as it could and should, in particular in providing the share of funding for the purchase of high-quality communication and other scientific equipment and the construction of alternative premises for long-term buildings. We are aware that the lack of funding facing colleges is great and that the gradual participation of students will be necessary in the future. However, any reform, including higher education, requires the provision of certain funds in advance, otherwise it will not be possible to carry out the reform. We therefore reiterate that education must remain a value that is accessible to all, rich and poor alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you for that attitude. Ana Marija Tisovic has the floor, the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we in principle support the proposal to regulate higher vocational education through a specific law. This must preserve those solutions from the current system, based on the rules on the organisation and financing of education and education that have been well assessed in practice, and in particular the possibility of public, higher vocational schools establishing as independent units or as organisational units of educational institutions, within the framework of the centres. Verification and quality assurance is essential. However, we believe that new bureaucracy is also emerging through this law. We are introducing commissions to identify and ensure quality in higher vocational schools. There is also a world for the evaluation of higher education and a public agency for higher education. In addition, they are expected to form another autonomous community at the level of the country which is established if it is connected to at least 70% of the higher vocational schools. The new bureaucracy outside the schools themselves, along with the bureaucracy required by the law in their internal organisation, only increases costs and reduces the efficiency of the system. However, we support the solution that the verification of higher vocational schools is under the responsibility of the Minister. In practice, however, it is likely that there will be considerable difficulty in requiring the entry into the register of concluded contracts with employers on the implementation of practical education. By the way, we believe that the draft law is well summarised in practice with regard to the procedures already being tested for the appointment of lecturers from higher vocational schools. Delimitation to regular and extraordinary studies, regulation of the rights of higher school students following the example of higher education and arrangements for supervision of the implementation of higher education. The New Slovenia Group will support the draft law along with the amendments adopted on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter gets his word. Position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law on higher vocational education was created in cooperation with higher vocational schools, the economy and the professional public. This is particularly highlighted in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. It will lay the legal basis for the further development of Slovenian higher education as a shorter tertiary education. The law regulates the status of higher vocational schools, which is particularly important with the rapidly growing number of students enrolled and with a very loose network of schools. In doing so, of course, the issue of quality and control over their performance is crucial and therefore they must be met with the requirements of the human resources conditions and important attention. The situation of students and the exercise of their rights from the status must also be given because it causes the most difficulty of dividing them into young and adults, although it is indeed a matter of dividing them into regular and extraordinary students who are equal in their rights if they are not employed or registered as job seekers. Higher vocational education became an indispensable part of tertiary education in a short time, and in the academic year 2003/2004, 13.5% of all undergraduate students were enrolled in the programmes. It is important because it educates the labour market at the same time that a quality form of lifelong education is intended primarily for the middle generation, which wants to raise the educational level achieved, or whether it is a form of overcoming non-competitiveness until education is achieved. We believe that it is necessary in the law to ensure that teachers of higher education receive adequate pedagogical and professional qualifications, and that one of the quality indicators will also be the opinion of students, especially on the pedagogical-andragogical competence of teachers without formally recognised forms of education, which will be judged by the same body as the adoption of study programmes. It's a professional world. We also note the important role of the Chamber of Economics, which must lay down the conditions for the implementation of practical education in order to achieve the competences required by the Professional Standard. In order to identify and ensure quality in higher vocational education, the professional agency will be tasked with the same tasks as throughout tertiary education. We can see that the objectives of the law are consistent with the Bologna and Copenhagen Declaration and the accompanying documents. The solutions include higher vocational education than shorter tertiary education in the accepted tertiary education structure and suggest a vertical transition, so we will propose a complementary law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you for that attitude, too. Bogdan Barovic, position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, representatives of the government. The proposal for a law on higher vocational education is ahead of us and needs to be adapted in order to amend the legislation in the field of higher education, on which the Slovenian National Party expressed its opinion days ago. We'll leave it alone now. We have looked at and formed some fundamental starting points in our country on the basis of which we will not oppose the proposal for a law. It's a form of study that was familiar to us, I think it was before 1993, and it has its reasons. These are the bologna and köpenhagen declarations at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. It is of course important for all those who will decide on such a form of study to issue an annex to a foreign language diploma. Strengthening the autonomy of higher vocational schools is also an important objective. Among the goals for which we assess in the Slovenian National Party that they are very important is the strengthening of the situation of students and the definition of care for the development and learning of Slovenian. Among the principles of law, we have stressed in the Slovenian National Party that this is, at least in our view, an important element for international comparability and the development of higher vocational education as a shorter form of tertiary education, which, of course, can be very useful for future students and students, but I hope that it is also aligned with the development of our societies and with the needs that the State of Slovenia will have for people with such education and, of course, also comparable to the European community. In the Slovenian National Party, as I said, colleagues and colleagues will not object to the proposal for a law on higher vocational education. In fact, we are pleased that some things are happening in time, and I hope that there is sufficient time to comply with the Bologna Declaration. I think the deadline for coordination in 2010 is sufficient, which means that time is sufficient. Since we are already beginning to adapt and prepare, I am sure that the newly formed educational laws will be of general quality because you are such a minister and a government, suffer me, we will take our time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word gets to Jože Tanko. It will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. All hailing, including the minister and his associates. We support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the education system needs to be adapted to international trends and recommendations and also to declarations. Higher education is part of education and therefore part of these processes. This system, or this part of education, is an important part of lifelong learning; it is also part of the national adult education programme and also part of tertiary education. And it is also part of a system that is important for the maintenance and development of national, intellectual and practical conditions and for the regeneration or upgrading of knowledge. This is a relatively highly diversified system in which the role of the private sector is also important. In other parts, this is significantly less. In this educational process, about 12,000 students are educated, of which two thirds are adults, which means that people come into this system from practice and are also educated for practice. The inadequacy of the Higher Education Act or of this programme is a lack of involvement in the entire education system, as it is to some extent impossible to move to a higher level, because this programme is not fully compatible and will probably have to be supplemented in a relatively short time by the Higher Education Act if we want this transition to a higher level to be possible and will not be closed in such a way. At the same time, I believe that it is necessary to better align the standards and requirements of individual education modes to achieve the same levels of education that we can obtain on different routes. As we say, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In my words, Lidija Majnik will move the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u114	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since the end of 1993, when higher education in higher education institutions was no longer possible, we have identified this form of education in a new form in the White Paper on Education and Education, and the basis for the establishment of higher vocational schools was made possible in 1996 by the law on the organisation and financing of education and the law on vocational vocational education. By signing the Bologna Declaration, it was necessary for all graduates of higher education to grant a different status and it was appropriate to adapt the credit scoring system and to allow vertical integration. Otherwise, the development of higher education was, in fact, quite surprising. Of the four public and one private higher school together with 342 enrolled students we have these schools today 42, half are public and half are private, and more than 12,000 students are enrolled. Among these undergraduate students, as has been pointed out several times today, this 13.5%. However, the structure of the students has changed, as adults are two and a half times as young. Here, too, it shows that higher education has become an important part of tertiary education and that it meets one of the main objectives of this education, namely the reduction of the education gap of the middle generation or the promotion of lifelong learning. With the law that we are dealing with today, we are solving the problems and problems that have emerged in recent years. In the LDS Group, we support the clear provisions enshrined in the law. We agree that higher education is part of first-degree higher education, i.e. shorter tertiary education, while at the same time part of professional or professional vertical education. The study will be internationally comparable. The introduction of a system of credit points and diploma attachments will allow vertical transition. The law introduces the same division as in higher education, where exceptional students are those who are employed and therefore do not have student rights, and job seekers and young people are regular students. The law also defines distance studies as an extraordinary study. From now on, the quality of the programmes will be checked by the Council for the Evaluation of Higher Education and the Public Agency for Higher Education, i.e. the same institution as for higher education institutions. The solutions incorporated into this law also increase the autonomy of schools within larger systems, within school centres. On the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we also proposed and adopted an amendment which gives the right to stay in student homes for all students, not just Slovenian citizens. Given the location of higher schools, which are an extremely important part of tertiary education, but are not part of the university, such a decision is also of great importance for all those places in Slovenia, which have higher education and usually problems with the employment of student homes, but are far from the university centres. By adopting the law, we will give appropriate professional autonomy to higher schools, allow higher vocational education to develop as a shorter tertiary education, allow transition, make studies internationally comparable and implement social partnership in planning, programming and implementation of higher education. We will support the law in the LDS Parliamentary Group. However, we wish schools and students all the best and great success in working and studying! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, on Thursday, 15.7.2004, after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Meroslova Act, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister for further explanation of the bill. Please, Minister of Education, Science and Sports, Slavko Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u116	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The government is proposing to supplement the law on metrology, with which it wants to deal more appropriately with three issues. First, the authorisation or designation of external organisations for the implementation of the certification criteria. The proposed amendment of the law will also allow entrepreneurs, individuals and not only legal persons, but also so far, to be able to obtain a mandate on the basis of which they will be able to carry out verifications of the criteria. In doing so, we also propose metrological control of the criteria in order to redistribute the issue of officials who have been redistributed for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of metrology control because of their needs and on the basis of the internal restructuring of the Office. This is also a matter of aligning the law with the law on inspection. At the same time, we propose changes in the field of pre-packaging products related to the management of organisations which mark their products with the European Union mark, in accordance with the EU Directive in this field. Users of this mark will have a free transition to the EU internal market. These are the most important changes. Most of the time, there's a lot of technical and typical legal matter. I suggest you support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Slavko Gabru. I invite Rudolph Mojet, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport to present the report of the Committee as a working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! On the Committee, after presentation of the law by the proposer, the representative of the Legal Service drew attention to their written opinion and, in particular, highlighted the following comments on the law. Article 1 and 2 by the adoption of the new Law on State Administration introduced into our legal order a special new concept of the establishment of bodies in the composition and transferred to the power of the government. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has therefore been designated as a body within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport by a regulation on bodies in the composition of ministries, so the powers and responsibilities of the Office do not need to be rectified by this law. They had a second point on Article 4, which is to transfer to the Office the powers of the designated entity to determine compliance, which is a questionable solution from a legal system, since in this case the delegation of public authority, the details of which could be determined by the Minister, and to Article 13 of the proposed new Article 18a, is to carry out certain tasks of metrology control - these are simple procedures for the prevention and detection of offences and the issuance of payment tasks - by metrological supervisors as authorised officials of the Office, where the criteria for the complexity of the procedures are not clearly defined. The representative of the applicant replied to these comments as follows. As regards Article 1 and Article 2, the framework powers of the Office are indeed laid down by a government regulation, but it is the view of the proposer in this law that it is better to state the performance of which body is governed by it as it simplifies and brings it closer to the user. Regarding the comments to Article 4, he replied: "The fragmentation of the procedure of the Office and the Ministry would not be rational, so it should be fully carried out by the professional institution, that is the Office." And to the comments of Article 13: "The criterion for distinguishing procedures is mainly to identify facts in simple procedures at the very place of metrology control." Since we have dealt with the law following a reduced procedure, we have taken up the amendments and the Committee has adopted seven amendments to the LDS Parliamentary Club and to the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS and added five amendments, which have followed mainly the comments of the Legal Service. The amendment to Article 4 makes it clearer that the amended Article 10 of the Law does not refer to the transfer of administrative tasks, but only to technical and technical tasks in the context of conformity assessment. The amendment to the amendment to Articles 10 and 20 shall take account of the comments of the legislative and legal service, the amendment to Article 19 shall delete the provisions sanctioning the repetition of the offences referred to in Article 27 as a single offence. The provisions relating to the mass criteria are also deleted as there is no reason to impose more stringent penalties on offences relating to this category of criteria. With the amendment to Article 21, we have set a range for fines. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have before you a proposal for a law that has not been tabled as an amendment, which means that the Committee has done its job well and I want you to adopt this complementary proposal for a law. At this point, I would like to thank you very sincerely for all 33 regular and other extraordinary meetings, where we have addressed the huge number of laws that have been passed in this country under the National Education Programme, so that it can continue its work in prosperity. Dear colleagues and colleagues who have participated in the Education Committee thank you once again sincerely and, of course, sincerely thank all the experts on the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you also, on my behalf, to the Committee and to the Chairman of the Committee for the report. We've got some views of the parliamentary groups. I invite Ana Marija Tisovic to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, a nice hello to you all. We are adopting a new law on metrology following a reduced procedure, where minor amendments to the law and the harmonisation of the law with other laws are involved. This amendment to the law is intended to contribute to improving and improving the rationality of the system in the field of metrology. This is how the bill was justified by government representatives. It is also true that, two years ago, the European Commission warned us that we have too little control over metrology, which is, of course, being corrected by this novel. This amendment also extends the possibility of obtaining appointments for the implementation of the first regular and extraordinary measurement criteria to individual entrepreneurs. So far, legislation has given this opportunity only to the right person. This novel also proposes that metrological supervision be solely under the responsibility of the Slovenian metrology office, which, of course, cooperates with other inspections from other ministries. The aim is to increase the professional approach, increase efficiency and also increase the legal security of the parties in the process, as in addition to the administrative dispute, the party may also appeal against the decision of the Slovenian Bureau of metrology. In order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of metrology control, it is necessary to increase the professional approach and, according to the legislation on inspections, it is necessary to regulate the status of authorised persons of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology. In this way we will get two types of authorised persons, namely inspectors, who would exercise metrology control in more difficult procedures, and metrological supervisors who would be empowered to control in less demanding procedures. The shortcomings of public law are also addressed where there is no provision for punishment in the field of pre-packaged products, both with regard to the application of appropriate criteria and documentation. A provision on EEC marks on packaged products has also been added. This amendment also aligns the legal provisions with the new law on offences. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that amendments and additions to the law on metrology are necessary, not because of the adaptation of our legislation to the European legislation that leaves us open to this area, but because of the more effective exercise of control in this area. The New Slovenia Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you. Jože Tanko has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I welcome everyone, including the Ministry and the Minister! Although this law brings a lot of corrections, to a large extent it is more editorial and co-ordination. This is a law that we align in one part with the laws and regulations that have already been adopted and, on the other hand, we allow or introduce entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship into this area. This novelty will allow the procedures and tasks in the field of the implementation of conformity assessment and certification procedures to be carried out by qualified independent entrepreneurs. This means that competitiveness, quality, service speed will increase in this area, and this is likely to affect the very price of the service. On the other hand, a greater dispersion in the implementation of procedures also means a greater complexity and responsibility for supervision, which in some ways is regulated in a two-step manner in this law, is said to be easier cases with a metrological supervisor and more difficult matters with inspection services. We will support this law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u123	We will also hear the position of the LDS Member Club presented by Janez Komljanec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and other representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The new law extends appointments to carry out conformity assessment procedures and arrangements also to independent entrepreneurs, individuals. The appointment process shall be reduced and the legal security of the parties enhanced. There is also an increase in the professional approach to implementing metrology control and efficiency, and thus economics. It also introduces requirements for internal documentation on quantitative control and the use of appropriate criteria. The proposal for a law is adapted to national needs in the system of appointment for the implementation of conformity assessment and certification procedures and the organisation of metrology control. The LDS Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on metrology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 10 minutes after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the other government representatives for their cooperation. We're moving on to 25. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, to be chaired by the President of the National Assembly, Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u126	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE REPORT OF THE INVESTIGATION COMMISSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE RECORDING OF THE BACKGROUND AND THE CAUSES OF THE PURSUANT TO PURSUANT TO PURSUANT TO PURSUANT TO PURSUANT TO PURSUANT TO THE PURSUANT TO THE PURCHASE OF PURSUANT TO THE PURSUANT TO THE PURSUANT TO THE PURSUANT TO THE The final report was presented by the Commission of Inquiry to examine the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The Commission's final report was delivered by Vice-President Leopold Kremjar. I give the text first to the President of the Commission, my colleague Mirk Zammernik, for a further explanation of the proposed report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u127	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! As already announced by the President of the National Assembly, we have before us the final report of the Commission of Inquiry, the so-called Friday Commission, which dealt with the causes and backgrounds of the attacks on journalist Mir Petk. Even though it is written that this is the final report, we would, of course, want it to be finally. Finally, it's because we're running out of time. Unfortunately, it's not over. However, it is the predominant opinion of the Commission that, in spite of everything, it has done a great deal of work to achieve at least part of the Commission's purpose. It would, of course, be complete if, as I said, the matter were complete. With its warning, with numerous hearings, by maintaining the temperature that the matter should not be forgotten, the Commission has reached the intention that the authorities responsible may have worked a little more thoroughly than they would have. Here, of course, the Commission fully agrees with the statement in a separate opinion of the esteemed colleague of Vice-President Kremjar, where he says that those who thought the Commission would take over the tasks of the law enforcement authorities are saying the police and the prosecution are living in error. Really, our work couldn't have been, it shouldn't have been, I would have said, kind of parallel to the prosecution and the police. However, if we have written down in the indent that the commission's task is to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions and to explore the circumstances and reasons for the threat of journalistic freedom of expression and writing in the event of the attack on Mir Petk, of course we were not even allowed to go through this, it is said, beyond the investigation of the causes and background and the circumstances of the attack on Mir Petk, since this is a prerequisite for us to reach the next stage, and this is the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions. In this identification of the background and the causes of the attack and the investigation of the circumstances, we were often faced with a considerable dilemma and hardship, because the public closely followed this case and requested the Commission to inform it of the findings it had reached in largely closed public meetings; closed because virtually all the documents we had obtained, as well as some witnesses who had testified before the commission of inquiry, wanted the matter not to come to the public, and for various reasons, some for protecting their own interests, while the confidentiality marks were marked by a pre-trial procedure that went on at the same time. As a result, many times the dilemma that has arisen, as you have seen, has also arisen in the submission of the final report: either leave or set up a code of confidentiality and work in a closed session or open a public meeting. As far as the report is concerned, we have drawn it up in such a way that the possibility of opening it to the public is as wide as possible. Therefore, unlike the interim report contained in this final report, we have missed everything that could somehow encourage us to work in a closed session. Despite the fact that we wrote the report like this, however, we had some degree of fear that there could not be any indication in the report - of course we could not know exactly which - perhaps someone could have used or abused, better said, in the process that ran parallel to Murski Sobota. When the report was drawn up, it bore a code of confidentiality and we voted not to withdraw. Then, the piece of the most practically sensitive testimony before the Murzophos court was carried out when we estimated that it would probably not be possible, at least not to the extent that we could at first abuse this report, we virtually unanimously withdrew the degree of confidentiality. Since you have received the report and it has also been received by the public, of course I will not read it in full. In the beginning, we're describing these statistics and a little bit of what I've just said. It would touch on possible and specifically point out only the essential conclusions of the investigation. The Commission's most unequivocal conclusion is that Miro Petek was almost killed because he publicly warned of irregularities and publicly wrote about them. When we adopted the interim report, this was not yet clearly and categorically established. If you remember, it was also the first complication we had with the police, because at the first information meeting, the police said there were about five possible motives for attacking Mira Petk. Despite the very clear questions of the Commission, which they are able to do, we were unable to find out why, at least for the time being, not until the State Assembly adopted an interim report until, on the basis of the decisions taken here in the National Assembly, the Minister then adopted mandatory instructions to the Director-General of Police, then things moved a little from the dead point. But that left a kind of bitter mark. In spite of these mandatory instructions, this way of functioning of the police has once again been repeated. And we have a statement by the Director-General of the Police, who said that, of course, they always couldn't and should not have told the Commission otherwise. Who is the one who takes discretion, what will the parliamentary investigative committee say and what not? The second point in which we point out that it is not possible to confirm the undisputed suspicion of the involvement of public function holders, as well as the fact that this cannot be fully contested, is already the first contradiction where the findings of the Commission differ from the separate opinion given by Comrade Kremjar. Of course, until the attacker is known, it is virtually impossible to determine who the political godfather might be to this yet unknown attacker. Of course, it is also impossible to say and explicitly rule out the absence of political involvement. We differed, although it will certainly be said by the Vice-President, in the report you have written a statement by the former director of the criminal police, who was on this post when the attack on Mira Petka took place, that is, Mr Mohorko, who said that literally, I quote: "If the contracting authorities are rich under the thumb, it is clear that some people already know this and at least internally wish that no research will occur, because if this happens, the contracting authority will be publicly known, its links to such and different political and economic circles will be publicly known and journalists will write about it." Therefore, the Commission did not hope to write that it could categorically exclude this possibility so that there could be some political background. One of the first things the commission met with was the position of the money at the New Credit Bank branch in Dravograd. We have already written about this in an in-house report, and the Commission has requested a lot of documents from the police and the competent authorities. The conclusion is that the matter is still pending. Somehow the police summary of this was because we did not find the source of the money that had been illegally laid, it was clearly established that it had gone illegally, we could not determine the origin and we could not confirm the suspicion that it was money laundering. Isn't the purpose of erasing the traces of dirty money just to avoid identifying the source? And, of course, such a statement in a police report can make us think. At the same time, of course, we have come up with conflicting testimony, which, by chance, do not have a significant weight, but I am talking about what the Commission has been doing for almost three years. And because of these apparently contradictory testimony, after we submitted it to the prosecution, that's how the commission has always done it. Whenever we received an indictment or a hint that anything was wrong, we referred the matter to the authorities responsible for it, to the police and to the prosecution. And so we have also submitted this opposing testimony and have received from the Attorney General a notice that, on this basis, a criminal charge has been brought against those who have falsely testified before the Commission, which is, of course, a prison sentence. The following thing, where we are also slightly different in our opinion, in a separate opinion, Comrade Kremjar wrote that, according to his assessment, this matter does not go to the report, is point 4. A member of the bank Bogdan Ribič appeared before the Commission, who pointed out that there were errors in the work of the state bank, suspected by the police that he had leaked business secrets to the journalist Friday. Undoubtedly, both before investigative judges and before the Commission, it was found that Bogdan Rybič, a bank official, had indeed pointed out the wrong conduct of the bank, was referring to illegal positions, but to the competent places, at the money laundering bureau, which he then referred in accordance with the law to the police administration. Despite the fact that Miro Petek, both before the commission and before the investigating judge, also Bogdan Ribič, claimed that he was not the one who brought the data to Mir Petk, he almost struck the bank official. The Commission therefore concluded that this was in the report. For the core was formed, or the beginning of it was created there. Miro Friday got the data, but not from him. But he actually carried them to the addresses where he carried them. And this pogrom turned out to be the first loss of his job at the New Bank of Credit Maribor, stating the suspicion of bribery of Milan Pantner's carrier, so the Commission considers that this is, however, a report in contrast to a separate opinion. This loss of service was based on an audio recording, on a tape obtained by the commission from a court in Slovenj Gradc. This video, when we got it, we put it in our camera to make a tape of this video to see what's on this video. Nothing could be understood from this video, the magnetograms in this house could not be done. I've been listening to this audio footage, it's practically just a scream where someone would give someone a bribe. But you have to imagine this more than you can hear on this video. And this was chronic evidence at the New Maribor Credit Bank that this employee lost his job. The case is still pending in court. In addition to this complaint that caused him to lose his job, an indictment was filed for suspicion of treason of business secrecy against the same man. Even today, he claims that he would still have this complaint on his hands if it were not for the work of the commission. The Commission then questioned the Prosecutor General's Office, the Attorney General's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. And after two years of these questions, however, this appeal was dismissed. This man says that if there were no commission, the appeal would still not have been dismissed. In addition to these two observations, he also received a complaint, as you can read, for dangerous driving or for endangering security under Article 1 of the Criminal Code from the wife of the director of this branch of the New Credit Bank. Despite the fact that the court found at first instance that there was no basis for this complaint, the Slovenian prosecutor, however, assessed that it would continue the prosecution against Bogdan Ribič and appealed to the higher court. So this is the signal we send to people who see something wrong and hope to do something. Of course, such cases were then addressed to the commission largely, although they had nothing to do with Mir Petko and the attack. But there were cases where the man who said the thing was persecuted. Not the one he told you about. I have already talked about the lack of cooperation between the public authorities and about the errors and uncertainties that have emerged. Let me just remember the things that we wrote in the interim report, the road climbing complication, which now turns out to be a real complication in the Murski Sobota court, the witnesses, the neighbors saw how it went. And my colleague Kremjar asked a lot of questions about this, but the police gave it minimal weight. A colleague of Mrzelov's asked if there were protected microtecs that could irrefutablely prove that someone had committed an attack. We have also received rather debilitating answers to these questions. We already know how it works. And now I'm not surprised to read in the report from the Murski Sobota trial that the neighbor who first came to the scene was surprised that there was only one policeman at the scene. And when he told him why only he was there, what we're asking the investigating judge, the prosecutor on duty, he said to him, "Take care of yourself." Almost similar answers were also received on the committee, perhaps a little more embellished, but roughly in this style. The next thing where a colleague who gave a separate opinion disagrees is that there are no important picnics of the police that have been financed by circles that could possibly be among the attackers. The head of the Slovenian National Police claimed that this funding had really taken place until 1999, and so it stood in the interim report, and later certainly not that it was no longer possible. However, something happened last year, which contradicts this statement by the head of the Slovenian National Police. For 48 hours, Slovenian police detained Mr Rudolf Koyzek, who was also a witness before our committee and who somehow had him in a narrow circle of suspects for, not directly for the attack, but for the organization of this. And to hold someone for 48 hours, you have to have a reason. And the reason the police put it was, you can guess what, the suspicion of bribery. And who? To the police company. That was the official reason why the person was detained and then asked him everything else. Of course, no one was suspected of receiving bribes. When asked about this now, the former police director-general said that sponsoring the police is not a matter of the general police administration. Detaining a man, violating rights after all, but this is a matter of the general police department? But, of course, it's all back to the way she heard the witness who came to the scene first. Another thing is that it is absolutely necessary to mention it. These are two very obvious uncertainties that have arisen when the Minister of the Interior responds. This is on the question of when the Commission received information that the possibility of any related link between potential stakeholders and criminals investigating this matter for a very long time is significantly longer than the business deadline to answer parliamentary questions, that it is not possible to say that they could have given such an answer because of the time constraints, but they took a lot of time. Despite taking a lot of time, they replied that there was no such thing as a relative or any other connection between the potential attackers and the criminal investigators. This claim was lied to by the Commission, which listened to one who had been in a tight circle of suspects for some time, as well as by a criminalist, and both admitted that they were inter-linkages and, of course, how they cooperated. This is also one of the very clearly proven arguments that, if possible, the Commission is deceiving itself. If the Commission hadn't found out for itself, if I believed everything in the blind, I'd have just kept it out of connection. That's why it's still important that the National Assembly give a clear signal that it doesn't do so, that someone can't take discretionary rights and say, "I'll say it, I'll give it, and it won't." The same thing happened with the tape, with the audio footage that the Commission obtained on the basis of the information collected. We tried this tape. Since Comrade Kremjar wrote in a separate opinion what was going on and also said that he didn't seem to be going along with it, I will tell him. This is a recording of a conversation between the then Chief of Criminal Police Drag Kos and Mr Vlad Kun, who also witnessed before our commission and, as you know, one of the possible suspects. We have listened to this and, as I said before, when we have collected or obtained any information that we have said - we are not a law enforcement authority to identify what the law enforcement authorities must, let us inform the competent authorities and let them act on it. And we asked what was going on with it. We have received an answer from the police or the Ministry of the Interior that this matter is certainly not related to the Friday case, but that there is a possibility that the police were in breach of the document storage regulations because it was not in the official records, even though it was the number of the head of the police administration who sent it. Everything was equipped as it should, but in the official records, they say, this was not the case. And it's possible that there's been a violation of the law on document keeping. However, the case is not related to the Friday case. But I'm asking how it's possible to say something so categorically because nobody listened to that tape. The tape is still in the safe of our commission, and no one asked her to find out what was on this video. But he can answer that there's no connection here. The Commission has also received a very clear indication from the Maribor Prosecutor's Office that the qualification of the injury, as it was done in Slovenia Gradec, would greatly harm the case. I'm not going into these professional dilemmas that were then, I'm not going to let go. As a layman, however, I find it difficult to imagine that, with such a qualification of injuries as was done in Slovenj Gradc, the process would no longer fail. We see what complications are still taking place, where a sentence of up to 30 years in prison is at stake, what complications would there be if there were only five years in prison or less in the background. Then the lack of cooperation of the Ministry of Transport. This has also been the case, by the way, with many witnesses who have said this about frightening things. We also came up with two witnesses who were the same, at least not even more contradictory than the ones I mentioned earlier about the cash position at the Credit Bank. But I don't know what the difference is here, what kind of vats are here. In this, obviously contradicting testimony, but such a notice as we received as mentioned above, we have not received from the prosecution, although we have done the same, it is true that we have sent opposing statements, including a warning that you read to the witness at the outset - 'covering a confession is a crime, but you do not have to answer.' To remind you, Mr Beg, and some other co-signers, he claimed that he had received transport permits based on the action of the then Prime Minister, Mr Pengal, then Secretary of State, but said that this was not the case. But here the prosecution's notice, as I said, we didn't get, unlike where it was possible for smaller fish, but it's measured by different vats. I don't know, it's just a hypothetical question. Finally, since I have to leave some time with my colleague Kremjar, the commission assesses that if subscribers do not detect and condemn the attack on journalist Mir Petk, press freedom in Slovenia is seriously threatened. The conviction of the contracting authorities is necessary. Otherwise, this will make it clear that it is worthwhile to intimidate journalists because you are not punished for such an act. The mere fact that the contracting authorities have not been contacted after three years shows a worrying situation. As a result, research journalists dealing with economic and political irregularities are likely under pressure. Without an effective judicial system, such an attack can be repeated at the end of the day. Will we then take some responsibility for this if we do not speak decisively? Therefore, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly and, of course, I am pleased that, in its first decision, Mr Kremjar also proposes, in a separate opinion, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia fully adopt the findings and assessments made in the final report of the Commission and instruct the competent authorities to examine and act accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you, Comrade Ambassador, for further explanation of the report. And now I give the floor to a fellow Kremjar who has given a separate opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. When subscribers and contractors tried to kill Mir Petk, it would not only be an attempt to kill an individual, it was an attack on an officer, it was actually an attack on a free word, on a critical, public and clear word. It was actually an attack on the mind and it was an attack on freedom. That is why he deserved special attention from the public, and that is why he also deserved special attention from this national assembly. This attention should not have been and was not because he is a policeman and therefore needs special attention. For each individual must be protected in the same way, regardless of what he does. But in the case that an assault on an officer, on a politician, on a judge; then it is usually something else, and it is not just an attack on a person, but an attack on the work he is doing, it is also a message to others who are doing such work. And in this case, Mira Petka was also involved. I will not repeat what the President of the Commission has already said quite clearly in the introduction, what the Commission has been dealing with and what it has concluded. A few words about a separate opinion. Why a separate opinion? There are two reasons. The first reason is that if I were to insist on drinking the text, this could delay the work of the Commission and probably not result in today's consideration of the final report, which I believe is in fact a final combination due to the duration of the mandate, and an interim report due to the fact that the story is not yet far off, but must be completed. That's the first reason. The second reason is my feeling, of course, that the writers of this final report in good faith, of course, in writing the report had a possible sense that there is only too little to say more, and therefore some of the things that are written in a separate opinion, are such that, in my judgment, they do not belong in, because in some way of insinuation, they allow some explanation that there is more to it than it is written; they allow an explanation that we know more than we have written. Of course, it's not, at least I don't know anything more than it's written down here, and on the committee itself there was nothing more than it's written down. I think the Commission has done its job correctly, as far as possible. A work that was not easy because it was carried out at the same time as an investigation into law enforcement authorities. Of course, if the Commission had started working only after the contracting authorities had been convicted, then this work could have been different. However, I think that it has also done a great deal of work in that the interest of the public, the media in particular and the general public has been exceptional, focusing on the fact that the matter has gone forward, that the law enforcement authorities are probably also, as a result of this pressure on the public and also on our work, but they have done even more than they could. That's why I don't think he needs this report. And so my separate opinion goes in the direction, more than the criticism of what is written, in the direction of complementing some things, some things that are written down. That's why it's also mentioned - there's one mistake, of course it's not about the wife of course Fish, but about the wife of Skutnik, who accused the Fisherman of that traffic accident - and the other things I wrote that these things, which don't belong to me, in this report, because they're not important for the story itself, for the event itself, are some obscenities that can in themselves be problematic, some others, too, that are written down. But we're talking about a race connection - and let the police and the D.A. deal with it, and let them explore those permits, which they do, I don't know what they're doing. This separate opinion is therefore solely for this purpose. The third purpose of a separate opinion is this, and I am deeply convinced that the work must not stop, that no one in this country should become obsolete because of the great objective behind it. This goal is, of course, to prevent anyone from being able to because he thinks I have the power because he thinks and has the money to prevent public criticism with this money and with this power. You know, if this case doesn't end, then it's possible everything, and it sounds so pathetic, then it's possible to tie the mouth to a journalist, then it's possible to tie the mouth to a parliamentarian, then it's possible to commit and scare the judge; anything is possible unless the contracting authorities and the perpetrators of this act are convicted. Therefore, the proposal in this separate opinion, which is a bit unusual for this call by the National Assembly, in view of the end which is before us, has asked, in its decision, the next call by the National Assembly to set up a commission of inquiry that will continue its work, however, following a procedure as normal as it is. That the matter doesn't go out, that it doesn't stop, that it doesn't get old, that it doesn't just stay on what it is now. That this pressure on the public, on politics, on the national assembly will be such that it will go forward and that it will go to the end when the verdict of those who ordered the attempted murder of Mir Petk will end. And that's the whole point of this story. Everything else is of course parallel and therefore my separate opinion is as it is, it is written, which I think should be added, and of course I ask the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues to adopt such a separate opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you, fellow Kremjar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is my colleague, Vojko Celigoj, on behalf of the DeSUS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. The nearly three-year work of the Commission of the National Assembly, which investigated the background and causes of the attack on journalist Miran Petk, is covered by both reports you have before you today. The title already highlighted the central task of the Commission, which is to identify the possible link and involvement of public function holders and thus their political responsibility. The Commission of Inquiry, which was responsible and successfully led by its fellow Member, Mirko Zamernik, understands in the report that the last stone in the mosaic of the whole story, which the Commission has drawn up for so long and so actively, has been missing in all the work that has been done. The Commission has failed to detect subscribers of an unheard-of and grave attack on journalist Petko, nor has it been confirmed, of course, when it comes to the political responsibility of the public. The Commission’s report provides an excusable reply that this part of the investigation could not be completed due to the fact that the criminal justice part of the investigation conducted by the Prosecutor’s Office and the court has not yet been completed. We are confident that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary will, with their professional approach and legal powers, close and disclose as soon as possible all that has failed the Commission of Inquiry. That is, to discover and punish the subscribers of the heinous attack, even the attempted murder of a journalist. From here on, it will only be a step further towards the discovery of background and possible links, if they also exist in a wider circle of people, that perhaps even with public function holders. At this point, the commission couldn't help but confirm it and not reject it. From here also the concerns recorded in the additional separate report of the Vice-President of the Commission, which gives some further views and understanding of certain developments in this regard. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the Commission has successfully removed the code from its report, duly withdrawing the code in confidence, thereby making its work public information, so that upgrading the public impact on the final resolution of the Friday case will also be possible. In any event, a large-scale work was carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, which was invested in collecting data, working at 38 regular and extraordinary meetings, at many hearings, inquiries, contacts with police representatives, prosecutors and services, which could in any way help solve the case. The report also addresses all areas, including observations showing some of the identified shortcomings in the public service system, and would be at the crossroads of some other areas to be explored, for which the Commission did not have a mandate and it pointed out to them. Since I was also a member of this investigative commission myself, I can confirm that the work of the commission between members and experts was carried out in a constructive, working atmosphere, without party signs. From here also, the Commission's work success. In particular, I should like to commend the President and the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry for their significant involvement in the work of the Commission and for their success. In the DeSUS Group, we will support both reports and their conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you, Comrade Cheligoy. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party will be presented by colleague Peter Levič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u133	I will be brief because Mr President and also the Vice-President have said, and in fact I agree with both of you. "We are breathing for the collar" was Mr Pogorevc's statement, then the director of police, a few days after the attack on journalist Petk. Of course, we later set up a commission, I think October 2001, and my personal opinion that we have done well - more than well, excellent. Fortunately, we did not have too much influence, but we did involve interparty misunderstandings. Questions or doubts, whether or not one of the public authorities is directly or indirectly involved, differing opinions on who decides to assign criminal cases to a group of state prosecutors for specific cases and on the basis of what criteria does this happen? When asked to provide data, were the representatives of the State authorities giving us this information or were they hiding something from us? Is monitoring of police work and prosecutions effective? What's the justice system like? [[Good, weak, weak]] ? These are all questions that have raised doubts about the work of our commission. When did we agree, when did we ever disagree? We've done a lot of hearings, we've heard a lot of things, some probable things, others less likely, some of which we've even been disgusted with, but it doesn't matter. That's not what I'm getting into. That's not the point. The point is, the commission has achieved its purpose. We have accelerated the work of the bodies that have been and are still responsible, including with the help of the media, but the work of the Commission has not yet been completed. Either we stay with the little fish or some big fish gets caught in the net, it'll only show time. However, I expect our work to be taken over by a new commission in the coming term, and it will be closely monitored, whether we will stay in "breathing for a collar" or even tie a scarf around someone's neck. Both opinions are the result of the work of our commission and we will therefore support both opinions in the Party of Youth Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you, Comrade Levich. I invite my colleague Alojz Sok to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u135	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As the mandate of this National Assembly is slowly expiring, the work of the Parliamentary Commission, which investigated the case related to Journalist Petko, is also being concluded. Here today we find that this commission has not done its work, as we have also written in the report. Of course, it is clear to everyone that it has not been able to carry out its work as a commission either, because the matter is now under investigation in court and the Commission will be able to work further if the court responds to some questions that the Commission, as such, could not reach on its own. You were informed of the interim report and the interim report was also discussed by the State Assembly. And all that is written today in this brief, concise and clear report has already been presented to the Slovenian public in some way, so it was pointless for this document to bear the mark of confidentiality, secrecy. As a member of the Commission, I am very pleased that it has come to the conclusion that even in the largest coalition parties, they have agreed to withdraw the confidentiality mark from this document and to make this report publicly available to the public. And I'm sure there's nothing he can do about the investigation that's currently being conducted in the Mursophos Court. I must say that members of all political parties in this committee have worked well together that we have taken most of our decisions, as well as the report alone. Otherwise, I note that one of the members, from the largest political party of the Liberal Democracy, gave his separate opinion, but I will touch myself as a member of the Commission later. However, I do not repeat what the President said, because there is nothing essential to add here, because the report has presented very thoroughly, but I would like to point out once again some things which, in this case, surprise the journalist Friday, or which, if I say otherwise, surprises us in the New Slovenia Group and which also somehow cast doubt on the work of the state institutions which should do much more in this case than they actually are. First of all, the fact is that the Attorney-General, Mrs Cerarjeva, who is in a new role at the time, has not wanted to refer the matter to another prosecutor for more than a year, even though we advised her on the committee. In the Commission, we immediately discussed with the prosecutor from Slovenj Gradc, Mrs Mlakarjevo, how we assessed that Mrs Mlakareva was not in a position, could even use that word, could not handle this procedure and could not actually drive the matter as expected under those circumstances. So, this is what we suggested in the commission - about which we members of the commission were open to each other at one of the meetings - the Attorney-Generals-General suggested, but still delayed. Nor did the State's Attorney General want to refer this matter to a special group of prosecutors; in this case she prefers to order an opinion, a study at four, I must say that the eminent Slovenian lawyers, but it was still the one that could decide and actually pull a solution towards our proposal and actually transferred this case to a special group, because although there were some arguments that it was not a specific criminal association, it would actually be now that it would have to be seen that the attack here was against a journalist who was at least 99%, I can argue that if I allowed another smaller option, but 99% could argue that he was attacked, brutally beaten in order to be killed because of his writing. This is, of course, the most common and most likely argument. Of course, I repeat, I allow it to have been something else, but we talked about it all the time. The investigation itself, which began immediately after the attack, is certainly very interesting and shows, of course, that the countries of the institution did not act in the case of Friday, I have repeatedly put on the committee the case of the assassination, the assassination of Mr Kramberger's presidential candidate. On several occasions, I explained to the Commission how the state institutions were doing at about 6 p.m. that Sunday, when this crime took place. All those who need to come to the scene of the event, including the then police minister, who arrived with a helicopter from nearby Maribor, immediately arrived. And two hours after the event, Slovenian media had already reported the arrest of an alleged perpetrator, who was later found to have also committed the murder of Ivan Kramberger. So, here, as the chairman of the commission initially said, there was neither the prosecutor nor the investigating judge at the scene, and since these two were not, it was not ensured that those not only microtecs were secured, nor the macrotecs were protected, because immediately after this attack there was a gliding of roads, and this is one of the dilemmas that has not been resolved in the moment and where the court could most do so if it would explain who committed the gliding, who ordered it, how it was divided between municipal and other operators and who was responsible for any of these acts. For if we were to come from abroad, it would be possible to explain many things about who acted at that time and in what way. As I mentioned earlier, the journalist Friday was probably beaten for his writing; what he wrote about was not necessary here because it was always known to the Slovenian public. The only thing I have to say is that he was right in some of his writings, and he was writing about things that were going on, which the Commission also found. He wrote, inter alia, on the distribution of CEM licences, and on the Commission itself, we did a lot of work, and the conclusion was that this allocation of licences was a major mistake, that it was an untransparent and unfair distribution of these. That it was a strange business in the New Bank of Maribor, the branch of Dravograd, we also made sure of it on the commission, realized, we devoted a lot of time to it. Let me remind you of the statement made by the then Director of the Management Board of the Credit Bank Maribor, Mr Glogovska, who said: "The journalists have nothing to write about the operation of banks." At that time, we immediately told the President that the New Bank of Maribor was not a private bank, that it had been saved with the money of all taxpayers, that the bank was still state-owned and that its claim that the journalist should not write about any irregularities was, of course, not true and we cannot agree with that. However, the Commission has put a final report before you in this three-year work. The trial is now in the Murzophos Court and our eyes are, of course, now stuck in the work of this court, because this court is the one that can answer all the questions that the commission that investigated couldn't get to the bottom of, but I'm sure this has helped that this case has even come to trial. Now there are those in court who carried out the brutal attack. I hope these people can or will tell you if the court will do what they should tell them who ordered them, who paid them. For if we do not come to this fact, then of course the work of this Commission is not justified and we have not done what we were created to do, but, of course, freedom of the press, freedom of opinion will remain threatened and unclear. And now a few more words concerning the separate opinion of our fellow Member, Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Kremjar. I've outlined a few things, some of them already mentioned. So, Mr Kremjar writes in a separate opinion: "The Commission has not detected any political background." I must say that we have discussed this, and we have not written this down either. We wrote that we didn't detect it, but we can't rule it out. I think this is a completely correct record and that more correct than it is should not be. We haven't detected it, but we can't rule it out. Let's wait and see what kind of response the Murski Sobota Court will give. I've already told you about the transfer to the Special Prosecutor's Group. Here, Mr Kremjar, just as the Attorney-General of State is speaking to the opinion of recognised Slovenian legal experts, Dr Ljub Bavcon, Prof. Franz Grad, Prof. Igor Kavčič and Dr Rajko Pirnat. That's true. I agree with that. Their opinion was such, but I still insist that the Attorney General was in the role of that institution, those who should and could decide on it. If I wanted the matter to be concluded as soon as possible - and I hope that she wanted to, but after our assessment, she made a mistake in assessing New Slovenia that she did not immediately transfer the matter to the special prosecution group, because in this case it would certainly not have been more than three years since then. Third. The question of interpreting Article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. This Article 14 states that the parliamentary commission of inquiry shall have the same powers as the courts and must therefore be provided by the relevant State authorities with everything that this Commission requires of them. So that was our interpretation, and so was the reading of this article. For me, this 14th article is perfectly clear. Now we can interpret it in different ways and state authorities can take discretionary rights and assess what could and could not benefit the commission in its work. I do not see any legal void here, and I also think that because of this article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation there is no need to correct it, but it must be interpreted exactly as it is written. This could, in my opinion, also be done by the National Assembly, which would interpret it exactly as it was written down and thus all the dilemmas about the conflict would be done about jurisdiction. Well, in point 4 or fourth, what should I call it, Mr Vice-President is concerned that we have just written down who might be possible or that there have been a brutal attack on Mr Petk for his writing and that Miro Petek has written about the distribution of permits and the operation of the New Bank of Maribor. That's a fact, so there's nothing to add here again, nothing to take away. Because you're kind of giving this a hard time if only this bank was mentioned from these banking circles. I have to say, we haven't dealt with anything else. Finally, to conclude, because, in fact, this separate opinion, according to my assessment, does not differ in any way from the report itself. I expected that this separate opinion would actually be a separate opinion in a different view of the whole situation. But when I got it and read it, I saw that it wasn't. You correctly note that the backdrop of this brutal fight will not be explored as an attack on freedom of writing, on the democratic foundations of a country. However, it is necessary, as you wrote on the front page, that freedom of the press word in the democracy of the world is also aware of the fact that journalists must respect the freedom of the word of others in their writings and that the freedom of an individual can quickly be met with the freedom of another individual. So, I think that the matter - and we want it to be in Novi Slovenije - will be fully investigated in the Murskosoba court and that, despite this recommendation, the National Assembly should somehow propose to the next parliamentary call to set up a similar commission so that this will not be necessary. Otherwise, I'd say we agree on a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you, Comrade Sok. I would like to invite my colleague, Jerico Mrzel, to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Dear people! Report on the cooperation of the National Assembly of Slovenia in identifying the background and causes of the attack on the journalist, Mr Mir Petk, and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. There's been a lot already said, and I'm sorry, because I'm going to repeat some things and there's nothing wrong with just thinking about some things. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has been attentive and attentive to the work of the appointed Commission and has constantly given it a special meaning. Let it not be too much to point out that this is a suspicion of an attack on the carrier of one of the most important spheres of democracy, that is freedom of expression and freedom of the press and, above all, freedom of research journalism. To the journalist, Mr. Friday, there was an unprecedented horror. He was threatened by a brutal attack on his life. Perhaps only a happy coincidence saved him from his death. Who were the killers with the bat on a snowy night? Did they have a subscriber? Was it, and why was it snowed? Why weren't the microtecs taken? And so on and so on, with such similar facts, the competent court is now actively engaged. Did the perpetrators have a subscriber? Were the contracting authorities involved? This is what our investigative commission is supposed to be doing, and it's what our investigative commission has been doing. Without reservation, I can say that a lot of work has been done. As far as possible, the public was informed as far as possible. It is important to stress our constant concern that the Commission does not harm the professional research body by its actions, which could have happened recklessly. What should be added to the well-known report of our President, Mr Zammernik, and to the separate report of the Commissioner, Mr Leo Kremjar? Suspects of a crime are in custody. The competent authority shall investigate a challenging case with great commitment. Once again, it's an attempted murder. Have some competent authorities acted superficially? Did their superficiality stem from a miscalculation of the case? Were some acts agreed upon? Has anyone been working from the back? Is our comedy the most important thing? Were even public officials involved? All these questions will be answered only when the perpetrators are legally proven guilty. All our society, and the judiciary is not exempt, has experienced positive and, unfortunately, accompanied by undesirable changes after independence. It is expected that, with all the interventions that have been intensively implemented in recent years, this branch of government will also be strengthened in its effectiveness. The differences between the declarative and the actual and, in particular, the normative are too great. We expect positive movements in the parliamentary group. Longevity and difficulties in the study have also led to undesirable, unnecessary and possibly even harmful insinuations. I am a corn, some of our places and people have made good progress. The sense that economic development can also accommodate illicit crime is frightening. This human stain may also have negative attention in Europe, which is certainly not in the country’s interest. Unfortunately, our history has also been the history of betrayal and terrible accounts. The search for truth is a European civil value since Socrates, 300 years before we count. Our society is worth a happy future, and it will be difficult to achieve it if the case in question does not experience its epilogue. My personal opinion is that such problems must be given constant attention in all branches of government, in particular those with the possibility of continuous supervision. And that kind of control must be apolitical. I wasn't happy when I felt political tendencies. We must act on the principle of individual freedom, as has been said before, until it endangers the true freedom of another. With this attitude, Slovenia will continue its high assessment of the culture of mutual relations. After changes, we have become capitalism, which, like every other system, unfortunately, also has its negative sides. We must never again experience Cankar's Kantor or King of Bethany, no one can afford to live a disgusting life at the expense of theft, human stings, and the unjust suffering of people. And I can hope that Mr. Journalist Friday does not experience the fate of Cankar's Max. I am convinced that our Parliament has the power to provide people with development not back in the Cancarian times, but forward, in the times we have historically earned. I will support both reports in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you, colleague of Jerco. The text is given by colleague Bogdan Barovic, who will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will exclude this moment and the name of the person to be reported by the Commission and its activities and will focus on the verbs and importance of the Commission's findings. Firstly, let us be aware that it is an investigative commission, a commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and has a very heavy weight. The facts are clear, there are no differences. I'll also rule out politics, absolutely. Secondly, the commission "reviews", "appreciates" and some other very important verbs are used to say "either to me or to determine". "The Commission will not be able to complete its work." This is the first sentence that I point out that is not acceptable to the work of the National Assembly. It's like they say, "Yeah, now we're stopping, but we're leaving, but we're not going to finish what's planned for today and tomorrow." The second, very important information for conclusions - I speak for conclusions - is: why? Due to the fact that the criminal justice part of the investigation has not been completed. This is very important information. The Commission found - I stress that this is the fact - that the person was attacked and beaten for a precise reason - of his journalistic work. This is a very important fact, this is a fact that the Commission has found and stands. Of course, it should be taken into account by the Court and, in my opinion and in my opinion, the work could be completed if the finding is correct. "The Commission notes that there have been some errors and ambiguities and concealment of the motives of the attack by the police in the investigation and cooperation procedures of the State authorities with the Commission." Do you know what the charge is? The Commission notes that the police were hiding something. This is the National Assembly Commission. The Commission says that false data were transmitted to the Commission by the police and the Ministry of the Interior. These are the facts. Do you know what this means, the transmission of false data by the police and the Ministry of the Interior? It's not a lie that I bought ice cream instead of candy! That the D.A. and the investigating judge didn't go to the scene! I mean, the seriousness of the findings, they're paid for it, they're doing it, but they didn't leave! Just a few facts. That the process had moved to Maribor, not because of threats, as was officially said, is the Commission's conclusion, but probably because of the inability of the prosecution. I mean, are we aware of the gravity of these findings, facts and opinions? "The Commission, in parallel with the investigation, has obtained data indicating a lack of judicial control." These are the facts, the findings of the commission. Today we have heard - those who were interested in this because I see that many are not really interested in this case - the first case in Slovenia, the hearing of anonymous witnesses. For the first time in history, someone is stuck somewhere, a voice changed - and a witness. And no one should ask him anything to at least give a little insight into who he is and why he is a witness. God's people, come on! Where do we live?Oh, my God! Now I'm going to find you 100 people on the road who are going to go for a million or ten million to testify, whatever they're going to say, anonymously, stricken, with a changed voice, somewhere. In the United States of America, where there are procedures against the Mafia, which is really cruel, a man must come with a name, last name, face before the judiciary and tell the truth and prove it, and then allow it. What does that mean? For me, for the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, this means that the judiciary, the Ministry of the Interior, recognises that they are powerless. An anonymous story, somewhere, blurry, blurry! Why did I put this emphasis on you? I speak on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. These emphasis mentioned the findings relating to - but these are facts now, not to speak, to politicise again - the Ministry of Interior and Justice. Who's it gonna be? And then again, I don't know, xenophobics and demagogues, if we say that there's evidence here, that there's a committee of state council that has evidence, papers, sound evidence that work is bad. In obvious ambiguity it says here - and I did not mention it at all, but I also need this fact, Minister Council of Bohinc, around kinship, incoherence and so on. Well, listen, I'm begging you, come on! And no matter what. Today, my distinguished colleague in a wonderful debate at the first-point report named three people who had experienced some kind of violence for some reason. It doesn't have to be that reporter. Friends and friends, colleagues, I respect you, because for four years, I hope that we have worked honestly and worked together, sometimes well, sometimes poorly - today we can experience what a person is supposed to experience in this report. No, I am not in favour of writing at the end "news freedom in Slovenia is seriously threatened". That's not true at all. Freedom of speech in this Slovenia is threatened by this principle. Freedom of speech; mine, yours, colleagues from the state council and others, representatives of the government and so on. What can we get out of this? On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say: it is right that this Commission is. This commission should be permanent, this commission should never and never separate a journalist, not a politician, not a musician, or anyone. This commission should be permanent and should advocate for human rights and freedom of speech in democracy for all, for a journalist from Maribor or from Trbovel, for a state councillor from any or representatives of the National Assembly. This is the conclusion that we draw from and support from the Slovenian National Party. The second conclusion of all that has happened and what is happening is to be, colleagues and colleagues, open and honest in certain matters and not politicise. I am very sorry, very sorry that this has happened in all of this, so I do not mention the name of the policy, which throws the shadow on everything, so I do not mention the name, not to mention the function, but to protect ourselves, our word and our rights as representatives of this country, the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Mr Zamernik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thanks again for saying that. Some statements, which differ from those in the Commission's report in a separate opinion, have already been answered, but not all of them. I am grateful to my colleague Kremjar because he wrote on the other hand in a separate opinion the statement in the report of the expert committee of legal experts who were - I think that the colleague Soka - mentioned earlier; Mrs Grad, Kavčič, Prinate. It shall specify the statement they have written in this expert report. They say: "There are no facts and circumstances that would justify the suspicion that this is organised crime, given what has been known to the State Prosecutor's Office so far about the specific case of the attack on journalist Mir Petk." This was recorded in May 2003. On what basis could this expert group have written such a difficult sentence? Or on the basis of the false information she received from the prosecution, which, of course, is very bad, or on the basis that they received all this information and then wrote what was even worse? Because - colleague Barovic has now spoken about this - we see what is happening now in the Mursophos Court. In court, the State Prosecutor stated that someone would take responsibility if one of the anonymous witnesses loses his life tomorrow and the perpetrators lose their lives. If it's not an organized criminal organization, then I don't know what it is. Then there's another statement. With regard to the listing of the bank. Comrade Kremjar, you probably forgot that we weren't just dealing with the New Maribor Credit Bank. More than a year ago, it dates a document that came anonymously and which was presented on the Commission and based on this presentation on the Commission, then the required measures by the police, which said: "If you are interested in the background of the attack on Mira Petka, check why some stock exchange and brokerage house bought Preventa and shares of the factory of sukans from Kada and Soda at a market price and sold them to the newly baked Korean rich - the round is given to whom - for a miserable price. Who is to blame for the price differences, and in what way? You're going to get amazing results." I can hardly imagine an imagination that could lead to such allegations. But let's say someone had such a strong imagination and made it up -- I wouldn't know how to make it up. And since we assessed it as well on the committee, we asked the police to check these statements. They found that at least in the initial part they kept these indications. Of course, they did not discern who was covering the difference and in what way. And this is banking, and this is the economy, and these are the shares, the stock exchange. In order to be known to the public somehow in the grave picture of how the matter was going on, I will describe the business in something that can be described in short words, just as we could see it or hear it from the documents we have on the committee and from the witnesses who were before the commission. How was the business of modern vulgoliberalism, but I will not describe these details in more detail, because such procedures as should be done here would probably not be ashamed of any "cosa nostra" or anyone else. However, you can read these details in the official tags in the documentation available to the committee. As we know, at the initial stages it began to be owned by large technological surpluses. Let's remember that. Also in all areas, such as in the field of transport. Firms have forgiven the employed carriers until yesterday and, of course, they had to find out in some way that they could survive. And we can imagine a cheerful person who lost his job like that if someone came to him and said, "Look, you can buy a truck here, you'll get a trailer for a truck here, you'll load it here, we'll give you a cash deposit for a loan that you'll get on this bank, that'll be this notary certified, that'll get paid here, and that'll explain it there. You're gonna drive some samples, so you don't want to know what it is, and you're gonna put a 100 bill on it. But it also comes out at 70, and that's why you're gonna put 30 back in cash. If you agree to these terms, fine, you'll have a job, if you don't, you won't have one." Of course, everyone's landed or at least most, not everyone. There are some who have not agreed to this and have had severe problems. And of course you need to know what's gonna happen to you, because all you're gonna get is for me, what's gonna happen to you if you don't. And then there's this Friday that starts writing nasty things. But there is so much money from the rest of the 30 that you can buy from it with very different - emphasis on very different - receptions, also innovative, what kind of government official, what kind of employee, which maybe I don't know, notary, banker, maybe even some election campaign. And why don't we make some more money to some local thug if we can pay for everything. Of course, the jet then proved to be a mistake quite quickly, for when the complications began, the actors quickly realized that, of course, it would be significantly better if we got, not local, but some of the executors from where else, who would then cross the border and no one would ever see them again. These "locals" were promised to do an unsolicited business that would be quickly forgotten and unhindered. It's supposed to be paid for somewhere by about 20,000 German brands back then. However, the business would be unnecessary, not dangerous, but not quickly forgotten, thanks to us. They found themselves not only nervous in Parliament or the whole parliament, but also a society of journalists, but also someone who kept pointing out this. They also forgot the residence of journalists. Therefore, the lies that had been deliberately spread by the previously mentioned, in various ways purchased circles, began to disintegrate, like houses of cards. Therefore, the operators did not demand a single income, but despite these complications, the main players still felt so strong that they could show the door to the carriers of these requirements "after March". Until the organizer of this and the subscribers enter the game to make it very clear that there will be no game with him, that you will have to pay more, otherwise [[...]] Of course, I can't get past what happened at the Murski Sobota Court. Let's remember if some criminalist and prosecutor invented that a witness should get $40,000 to change his testimony, of course it's so frightening that we should go not only to the prosecutor and to the justice minister, but also to the Prime Minister, if you ask me if you make it up. But if you haven't made it up, it's even worse! But what happens? Nothing special yet. I think it's just a complaint to the Jerovski Commission, but I'll come back to that later. Some witnesses before the committee said that they lived after the attack on Mira Petka worse than a dog. The ones you were with, remember that. I know a lot of dogs, and I count myself among them, which they do quite well. The dogs in the shelters are doing well, too. But the worst thing is for dogs that deal with insensitive masters who hold their dogs on such a short chain and so tightly squeezed behind their necks that their chain is imprinted in the neck tissue that they bark at the sea honestly. Eating and drinking give them just enough to keep them from dying. And for every wrong moment, they get hit, like that, and different. The biggest thank you that the Friday case didn't go into oblivion and that we have the hope that he'll get the final epilogue is right there on my desk. Five files of the collected articles on this case, but only since 2000, because I have not been so closely monitoring the developments in the media in this case until then. In one of these articles, the commentator asks rhetorically who beat Petka. Then he finds out: we all hit him. All those who know what's wrong are pretending everything's fine. One who, because of the tightening chain around his neck, does not know, does not hope, or does not want to say, perhaps even those who do not want to move things from the local environment somewhere where involvement in the circle of kinship and acquaintances would not be so strong. And who else would have found themselves? Will we take on part of this responsibility? The Attorney General referred to the case as Friday as the biggest success of the prosecution before she won the 2003 Minister's Chair Award. Last year, before New Year's or Christmas holidays, the former Police Director General told me that the subscribers would be attacking the festivals. After the experience I had last June, when I almost became an on-call culprit, that the Friday case had not yet been resolved, I, of course, took this information extremely with reserve and with extreme caution, and of course I did not say it in public. Today I wonder if I might have made a mistake. Perhaps then someone would just step in front of the cameras and solemnly announce 'but we also have them, as well as subscribers, behind bars'. To this act, according to the words of the Attorney General, there was only a step missing after the arrest of potential performers. Of course, today you are difficult or unable to imagine who would then take pictures in front of the cameras and make that statement, just as we witnessed almost a year ago. According to the election year, all the ministers in front of the cameras would probably be from now on. But it would be small if the subscriber were someone who had recently transported one of the posers in front of the cameras with an attractive means of transport. And if such a case, where nobility is so pronounced, is the most successful case of the year for the Attorney General, then it is possible for fellow students, in the first place, to be highly respected, this is ridiculous. But how's it going with cases that aren't so successful? As I receive comments here from the first bench, of course I cannot help but recall the conversations I had with my colleague, the current Vice-President of the National Assembly, regarding her semi-annual work at the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenj Gradc. Five days only? Thank you so much for fixing me. You're saying that you couldn't resist working on this prosecution so dilettarian that you could only be there for five days. I wouldn't even say that now if you hadn't told me something from the bench. And that also led us to that assumption mentioned earlier by colleague Bogdan Barovic. The fact is, we were charged before the commission that the transfer took place because of the threats posed by the prosecutor in Slovenj Gradc. This was clearly found not to be true, although Commander Ferlinc made this public. And on the basis of your five-day work on the Slovenian prosecutor's office, we then wrote an assumption that the case probably moved from Slovenj Gradac to Maribor due to the inability of the prosecutor's office. And I ask - again without expecting a concrete answer, because the Minister is not here, but I believe that she will be following this matter - what judicial system we have in this country that allows for traffic with a suitcase of money and a game "whoever more will win this truth". This question will have to be answered one day by the minister, the big debt in the Friday case, when the government's prosecutor's kitchen is gone and when she has more time. This question was not invented by me, but I borrowed it from the website, which is very closely following the whole Friday event. But it's been said many times, there's supposed to be a profession here, it's called justice and the prosecution, there's politics, and there's journalists out there. And the last two of you have no idea about the profession. If anyone disagrees with this, we will close the advertising tent from the beginning of the 30th time to the editor. Then we'll pretend everything's all right. It's not. But I'm an optimist by nature. And so my word doesn't sound too pessimistic, I'm going to end up quoting a quote from a Vietnamese soldier's son. He said to him, "Life is mercy, it's full of wonderful moments, so he lives it up to his last breath. And if you sometimes feel that everything is going wrong, as I have felt in the Vietnamese jungles many years ago, if you see an evil that touches all your human goodness, and if you feel that the world is a place that is not worth living, that you feel there is no hope for humanity, if you feel that darkness will prevail, my son, whatever happens around you, don't give up. It's still life." And despite the power of the unpleasant feeling that I once had to risk my head or at least carry it in my bag, I have met many honest, positive people in these three years, both in the police, in the prosecutor's office, even here in the National Assembly, in journalism and elsewhere. I know that some of you even received orders to make contributions to declassify the work of the commission and the president, and you didn't want that. I thank you for that. I also thank all those who have helped in any way to pull the veil off this case. Such people raise or raise the hope that press freedom or freedom of expression in Slovenia in general is not threatened. As I have already said, despite the fact that the presence here is not the most enviable level, I am sure that those who are in any way under their official duties, now or when they have received any orders, are monitoring or monitoring today's events. But to him and to all of us I give the following words: Anger and anger often mask the feeling of severe pain. We think we'll avoid even worse wounds if we drive people away. In fact, the opposite happens. When we cover the wounds with a measure, we prevent them from getting the love and care we need. And if you think this description applies to you, then it's time to stop fighting. You can get a lot of acceptance and love if you just let it go, because you're worth it. Because this is the moment you're here, and the next minute you're married to more of you. And for this moment, what a noise we make. How much violence, ambition, fighting, fighting, anger, hatred, just for a short moment. We're waiting for a train in the waiting room at the station and we're starting a scary scene, we're fighting, we're fixing wounds, we're stockpiling material things, we want to own, we want to command, we want to dominate, and the train comes and goes. For good. So those of you who are somehow involved in this case, I call out, "Cut, cut off the Gordy knot. You made a mistake. Who hasn't made a mistake in their lives? But if you gather courage and admit this mistake, of course only great people can do it, you will do more than all government resolutions, laws and measures against corruption. You will set an example for people that evil will always be taken away from the good." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you, Comrade Zampernik. The position of the Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by counterpart Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The LDS Group will support the adoption of the final report of the National Council of Inquiry on the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the public function holders and the proposed decision. I will also support the adoption of a separate opinion by the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry and the proposed amendments. Members of the LDS MPs were the initiators of the adoption of the condemnation of this attack the next day at a meeting of the National Assembly. And we were also among the signatories to the request for the establishment of an investigative commission. We have always had before us the objectives of the investigation and the objectives of the commission of inquiry. In this case, Friday did not really interest us politically, otherwise a legitimate confrontation with the opposition, and at no time did it lead us to forget the basic mission. That is how we accepted and supported the withdrawal of the current Vice-President of the Commission, who was already so much ahead of his appointment as President, because we were aware at that time that insistence could prevent or even prevent the functioning of the Commission. In the context of the difficulties in adopting the interim report, we also decided that the most important thing is that the Commission continues its work, although until some of the findings, the Club had a different opinion or reservations at the time, but we felt that this matter was going forward and that it was going to its end. We believe and have constantly considered that the work concerning the prosecution, the police and the judiciary has been, is and will need to be optimised in this case, in this case, because of this case and other cases, because it is an extremely important matter. The conviction of the contractors and contracting authorities to which it must come will be the only guarantee that we can actually freely think, speak and write, freely and democratically decide. Therefore, this work must continue and must not stop and should not be obsolete. That is why Members of the Liberal Democracy Club will accept these reports, as they have been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you, fellow Kremjar. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by colleague Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we set up an investigative commission in 2001 which was set up to identify both contracting authorities and contractors and to determine the involvement of public function holders in the case of Friday, we did not hope that this commission would come this far. We have been able to see from the practice so far that the work of investigative parliamentary commissions has always been halted halfway. However, in the work of this parliamentary commission of inquiry, the Slovenian People's Party's Group is pleased to see that it has come further. It has not come to an end, but has come longer than any parliamentary investigative committee so far. And if it were not for this parliamentary commission of inquiry, this case would have already been tarnished. And today, when we find this story that journalist Miro Petek described in the Evening, about organised criminal associations, about the sad story of property in Koroška, we can only ask how many such cases there are in our country - the sad cases of property that shed the most shadowiest light on genuine democracy and genuine life in this country. It is sad that, at this point, we can find that this country, with its repressive authorities, has completely failed the examination of punishment in the event of damage to social property, is simply property. That is why we are now wondering why this society of ours is so divided into a handful of rich and much larger numbers of poor citizens and citizens who were able to be more equal ten years ago or more. It's probably the authorities' fault. In any case, it is the ruling policy and authorities that have allowed us to come so far in this case. And when we heard the President of the Commission earlier, when he spoke eloquently about the case of a change in the testimony of one of the witnesses in the police court and what kind of money it is, they might actually be appalled. They feared that none of the superiors, from the responsible state authorities, the Ministry, the Prosecutor's Office, to the Prime Minister, had taken the necessary action, including possible objective responsibilities. And from this point of view, we can actually see that this commission has done a very big job. It is true that the main purpose of this Commission was to identify the underlying causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk, who is the contracting authority, who are the performers, but more or less the local environment in half knows who the contracting authority of this attack is. Why isn't this thing moving? And, of course, from this point of view, it is difficult to conclude why the Commission was also unable to determine the possible final involvement of the politically responsible holders of public functions, but also here the indications are clear. It is an organised criminal subterranean, which also has a connection with politics. If it didn't have that connection, it wouldn't have gone that far. And here I believe that democracy is on trial. If we don't get to the bottom of this case, it'll be the first sign that our democracy has fallen. It is therefore the responsibility of this mandate, the responsibility of all the competent national authorities, if they do not do everything, for the future mandate to come to an end. I have already said, and also my colleague Zammernik has clearly asked himself about this incredible statement by the current Justice Minister that this is the most successful case. What kind of judicial system do we have and the system of prosecution in this country? And here today I have raised this question once, I have said it five times or ten times in Parliament, and I repeat it: Why did most in the National Assembly not accept the necessary changes to the Constitution in the field of justice? We know that the National Assembly, by also granting a permanent mandate in 1994, has resolved this issue too quickly and has missed a trial period. In this case, too, it is a matter of whether all branches of government in this country will carry out their task in the case of Friday as necessary. Let me get this straight. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as I mentioned earlier, we believe that the Commission has done a great deal of work, that there is a great deal of shadow about the indications of subscribers of the attack on journalist Mir Petk, and that we are very far away from identifying the holders of the involved, responsible public functions, which are also related to this case. However, we believe that if the epilogue of known contracting entities, including the involvement of public officials, is not to be completed by the next term of office, the next term should reach the bottom of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a decision. May I have Mr. Mamić's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome all the present, few Members and Members of Parliament. Why small numbers? According to the rules of procedure, we could be even less, but given the current situation, I think it would be appropriate for more of us to be present. I'm sorry to hear that. On the other hand, it comforts me that there is less chatter, that it will be easier to say something. If I go back to the very beginning of an event that was three years ago. I will use the word 'I regret' again that it is not timely or has not responded at all to the event, which should in any way be. Here the matter has been resolved by the Commission of the National Assembly, as far as possible, on time, professionally, with enthusiasm, I could say, but unfortunately the work has not been completed, although we are saying that it is the final report. Of course, because the mandate is ending and the work of the Commission has stopped. As far as I'm concerned, I would support them to be elected and to continue this work. Why did I say I felt sorry for the country? I'm starting to think there's something in the back. That's for me, you could say, evidence or a reason for my thought. If anything is involved, it seems to me that it is true, then we must be far more concerned about it than the real culprit has not yet been found. I hope those who are already marked, that things will clear up between them and that they will get the right trigger and the right subscriber. I only support the work of the Commission and the report of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Battelli. Here you go. You don't want to? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. When Mr. Sok spoke, I heard from the parliamentary benches one very interesting happy call, a more rhetorical question, which was, "What's more important, freedom or truth?" I would answer my colleague, there is no freedom without truth, and there is no truth without freedom. No freedom of the press, no speech, and so on. There is no truth without freedom. As a result, many in the history of totalitarian regimes have been covering the truth to silence speakers, journalists, that he did not give freedom of speech. Of course. This is the characteristic of all totalitarian systems. Otherwise, where freedom of speech and the press is violated, it is a totalitarian system. That's one way to put it. Last October there was a very interesting seminar in Strasbourg entitled "Freedom of the Press as a Dog of the Keeper of Democracy". And there they discussed freedom of the press in Europe. Three cases were very interesting. I will read: In Kiev, even a new law on state secrets has recently been passed, and this allows security services to have constant control over suspicious, readers, opposition newspapers and journalists. Nothing is better in Russia, where they return to the old Soviet receptions. Instead of being sent back to prison, journalists began to work forced labor last October. In Belarus, Lukashenko’s overnight regime removes the opposition diary so that with one single swing, there are suddenly hundreds of employees on the verge of survival. Why am I saying that? Not because I'd compare it to Slovenia. Far from it. We don't have that kind of political control of the press. But there is another kind of control and control of freedom of the press and speech. Also last year in Celje, when the Executive Committee of the Celje Society of Journalists met, the president of the Society of Journalists Aktava Celje, Mr. Miran Korošec said this, quote: "If, years ago, autonomous and professional journalism has been the most threatened by pressure from centres of political and economic power, it has been increasingly threatened by the pressures of employers in media houses, i.e. administrations and owners. There's, of course, capital in the background. The fight for journalism is increasingly moving behind the walls of individual media houses, larger and smaller, although in smaller houses such pressures are even worse. So some other form of pressure, another way of violating freedom of speech and writing. So the way is not important, the fact that freedom is restricted is important. And we're already at totalitarianism, in some version, in some version of totalitarianism. If the case under consideration today is reversed. Under all the circumstances - I will not say, I have no proof, I was not a member of the commission - but it is obvious that someone ordered this attack. Someone who's got money, so there's capital in the background. For the journalist spoke and wrote about the strange business of this capital, about corruption, about what we have been talking about here for some time in the National Assembly in one way or another. How does Slovenia face the problems of corruption and the problem of capital totalitarianism? This totalitarianism does not play a role in the bank, in the vault, capital in the vault, but someone who is a capital bearer, that is, a person, people, people who have names and names. If I mention only one example, or two of them very similar and very well known, and they were dealt with here in the National Assembly: the Orion Insurance or Loan and the Sicura, the Sicura Food and Credit Service. When it was already discovered that in both cases the law enforcement authorities had already announced to the prosecution, there was a suggestion, an initiative from a higher level, in the case of Sicure, this is clearly stated in the minutes, namely the initiative to keep this matter a little calm. Why? Because, both in the case of Orion and in the case of Sicura, he had the capital concerned, which has the surname and the name, the time, of course, to clean up after himself. It wasn't Popovic who could have been in handcuffs in a few minutes for some reason nobody knew why he was, but he was immediately chained and detained. In these cases, a scenario of delaying arrest has occurred at a higher level, delaying action because something has been hidden, that the truth has been hidden. And it is clear that from all of these cases, from the case of Friday to all of these cases, which seem to be rolling, they are constantly rolling forward and in which we are smothered, the incredible complexity of the political elite, some of the political elite and capital, is observed. This is much worse, but it is far more dangerous than totalitarianism, which is driven by politics alone or only by capital. If this overcoming does not break Slovenia, there will be no freedom. There will be no freedom. And we're already here, there's no freedom without the truth. There is no freedom without the truth. And until we reach freedom of the press and speech, the freedom that our media do not offer, because we know how colored commentators are, all the leading commentators of the daily newspapers know how to breathe, how to breathe politically and how biased such comments are, until there is freedom of speech, there will be no truth, and as long as there is no truth, Slovenia will not be free. Unfortunately, these are facts that are constantly being imposed on all of us, who are slightly more seriously following cases than the Friday case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. The problem with this process, or this finding, is that it is likely that the case of Friday will not be closed during the parliamentary investigation or this term. Unfortunately, there are so many parallel players and inhibitors in detecting this process that it is difficult to detect. When we talked about those involved in corruption a while ago, we were able to find that these companies involving individuals with corrupt acts, that acts abroad have been discovered that the perpetrators have been punished or the perpetrators have been punished, while in our system this has not happened. And we have also said that they may be hostages of these networks in the context of our country's opening in the EU, because it is not completely out of the question. Even in the case of Friday, there was no end to the parliamentary investigation, nor was there a serious hearing in the court in the context of criminal proceedings. Not one, not the other. From everything that's been seen, and also from indians, it can be found that the actors are actually famous. What's the problem with all this stuff? That there is no adequate evidence to prove this to them in an indisputable way. There are indications of who did this. They're serious indications about who ordered it. There are indications of how quickly the trail was erased, how fast the road had to be driven. And in the end, we have the result as it is. Despite this mountain of paper. Our country is in an ever-increasing grip of this black background. I'm not going to talk about capital that's all hidden, all the origins of these problems in capital. Capital is a normal resource for manufacturing processes, as they say. A resource to keep the economy running. Like the workforce, it's an appropriate resource or resource. But it is a question of how it is accumulated and how it is then released outside the legal system. One, of course, is the creation of monopolies, which we meet in our country, and then the pressure on the public sphere and on the political sphere back, and thus, in fact, the real market system is impossible. This, of course, also affects media design, media plurality. As Haek has already said, there is no parliamentary system without properly regulated capital and also media pluralism. All of these three actually form a democratic system. Having only a political system, a parliamentary system that competes and has equal opportunities is not enough. It is also necessary to establish the right conditions for the normal functioning of capital. And in Slovenia, unfortunately, one part of the capital has found other ways and is also used for its vanity and its goals, as in the case of Friday. I myself have been present at one or two meetings of the parliamentary commission, and I have seen how difficult this is, by the President of the Commission, and how difficult it is to get to the right sources. There's a whole lot of rebellion, deception, of course the silences of those who should speak. Is this because they're involved or because they're threatened? Just when I was present on this committee, the witness asked us nicely to withdraw through the side door in Parliament and not to mention his name, because he felt threatened. He worked in this system as a driver, and he made it clear how it was done in this case, what illegalities and how it was done with people in the company or in that circle, in that network, if you did not submit to this will of power. This should concern us, and this should also be a lesson based on these findings. It is difficult to say how this parliamentary commission will proceed now. We are also concerned about how the penal system will proceed. However, this message is that in Slovenia we are seriously facing a criminal subterranean which is also seeking its objectives in an illegal way through capitalist power. It is certainly necessary to commend the parliamentary commission at this time for having obtained certain results. I think that she has also participated in in investigative procedures, and has also given appropriate support to other factors in the detection of crime. And let this be a message to us, to the rest of the country, that this kind of crime must be dealt with seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerica Mrzel has already said that we support the report in our parliamentary group. I myself have read it carefully, I agree that it is a brutal attack on a man, an attempted murder, and that it is particularly important to discuss this because it is a journalist who researched the operation of capital in Koroška. Such an action, if any, must be condemned, because it is an option and is suspected of being an attack because of a public word, the responsibility for investigating such cases is even greater. I appreciate it. I believe that the Commission has had a difficult and responsible work on the facts, due to possible assumptions. If it was an orderly attack, which the Commission assumes, if it was an ordered attack by the capital side, even if it were a policy involved, of course, the identification of all these facts is not easy and this was the reason for responsible work. And secondly, the responsible work was special because, in my knowledge, it was the first commission to work in parallel when the criminal procedure was under way, so her concern was how to regulate and act in these circumstances was particularly responsible and great. I accept the findings relating to the work of the Commission, and I do not doubt their accuracy. It is correct to conclude, however, that these findings, which are more related to the work of law enforcement authorities and the assessment by the Commission of whether or not the law enforcement authorities have worked at individual stages, are more relevant than the findings relating to the identification of the possible political background and the responsibilities of public function holders. I see it as a fact, I wouldn't say anything with it, but I think it's a fact. I certainly also accept the conclusion that the public influence that the establishment and functioning of the Commission has helped to accelerate responsibility or increase the responsibility of the judiciary and all others, the police, the prosecutions, to ensure that the action is determined and I want to bring to an end the proceedings not only against the direct perpetrators, but mainly against the contracting authorities, because there are certainly some contracting authorities. I am afraid that many of today's debates go through these conclusions. It is obvious that there are assumptions that there is a criminal underground, that there is crime, that the public and the independence of words are at risk, that we know what journalists we have, that we know, on behalf of whom and for whom they write. That, gentlemen, I don't think it's good. It is not good to draw such general conclusions when determining the indisputable facts of the work of one commission. We have this right, but this reduces the credibility of our debate and decision-making on this particular case. And secondly, what I want to say is, I know you won't all be my opinion. In some ways, the credibility of the decision-making process also diminishes the fact that Mr Petek, as a research journalist, has opted for politics. And not to be, it's his right, but the argument I read, I have to say, but it surprises me. I read it, not the only one, because we read many times, wrote Peter Jančič, I have no doubt that he wrote it exactly, because I know when he takes me down, even when I'm unhappy, he takes me down too accurately, not vice versa. He wrote, "As he said," because Friday, "he also decided to apply because the investigation of who ordered him to be beaten years ago does not move from a dead point. He's been waiting for the epilogue for years." Right and sad. "Friday estimates that if elected, this can influence it to make it easier to find the culprits." This part, I must say, I do not like it because it assumes that politics, that all of you and Mr Petek too, thinks that our justice does not have the same relationship, that if you are in politics, you can influence the work of justice, and that it wants - thinks that through politics it will be easier to influence the fact that it will be found. We will get a new policy that will want to be something more than everyone else. We've had these cases recently, and I'm not going to name him so that I don't reopen the debate. Well, I don't think that's good. And I must say, I am pleased that the president of the press society reacted in an appropriate manner immediately. I think so. I wish that this statement had been thoughtless and that Mr Petek would continue as a candidate to believe that it is possible to act in a way to help the judiciary, not to accuse him in advance. And in this regard, another opinion and conviction. Mr Rokavec says so many times, let us find out why we have not changed the constitutional provisions on the judiciary, let us find out. We have all the magnetograms at our disposal, and when we find out, we will see that the accusation of someone else by Mr Rokavac is not at all justified. I'm not accusing you. I'm finding out the facts. The Slovenian People's Party was among the first to say that the powers of the national assembly in the field of the appointment of judges should not be diminished. Experts have said, however, that if you go into a system by which you will introduce a test, and at the same time do not implement another proposal included in this same proposal by the government, that judges be appointed by the President of the State or something similar, then you will introduce, immediately after the end of the trial period, the uncertainty of these judges in order to decide in the last year, not necessarily, you can. But this fear is at least as justified as all the claims you have made about justice today, under the influence of that majority who will decide in six months or a year in the National Assembly on their election. And they said that the problem of the smoothness of justice, which exists or at least potentially may exist, could also be solved in other ways. And we have already arranged these ways in the Judicial Service Act to ensure a two-thirds decision on important decisions and, therefore, always have to be made for a decision: promotion, appointment, disciplinary punishment and similar codecision by those who are not judges, but are of the kind of university professors, lawyers and similarly appointed to the Judicial Council. We have this arranged and that this can also be regulated by, in fact, the quality of the judge's work and the possibility of his being resolved much earlier than if we waited five years. Let us also say that the end of this demagogy is who is the one who has failed to ensure that changes in the field of justice will be achieved, which someone thinks will solve all the problems overnight. Unfortunately, this is a very difficult process, and we need to make progress in it, just not with such demagogies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I have before me the final report of the National Council of Inquiry on the Background and Causes of the Attack on Journalist Mir Petk and, of course, the possible involvement, political responsibility of the holders of public functions and the separate opinion of the Vice-President and member of the Liberal Democracy of Mr Leo Kremjar. The report is quite a commodity and contains only a general proposal for a decision to be adopted by the National Assembly. I will, of course, tell you more about how I see this proposed decision. When I myself led an investigative committee in the previous term, together with my colleagues, we proposed to the National Assembly for adoption of 11 decisions, which were so serious, so radical that the Member of the United List and the long-standing Member and Officer, Mr Miran Potrč, used all his influence from then on and of course later on that the final report of our investigative commission was withdrawn from the agenda of the 55th meeting of the National Assembly of the previous reference. The report was prepared, adopted by the Commission and was all made not to be discussed. In the background of this and, of course, some others have acted, it is perfectly clear to me, people who were unable to allow the National Assembly to conclude that their previous system was laundering money and, of course, had specially paid actors who, of course, were also adequately protected. How appropriate the protection is, Uroš Aljančič and Pavel Koder were never one day behind bars, even though they were legally condemned. That Mr Šubic did not write for nine months is, of course, completely irrelevant and Prosecutor Ribnikar did not warn the judge of this even once in writing. I am saying this because I have started that this report is very mild and has one general conclusion. Why? If it were different and more serious, sharper conclusions such as this work would have merited would not have been accepted by the Commission, let alone sweat in this national assembly. That is why I do not agree by myself with the claims of "experts", of course in phrasing, in particular from some journalistic species, that no investigative commission has done anything. The fact that the final report has not been adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly in our country, where, of course, the same political forces have been in power for several decades, is no failure. On the contrary, I can say that this is a great success and recognition of individual investigative commissions, that it has been sufficiently clear and, in its work, has reached into the essence of the problem, which, of course, has been caused by such or different authorities, the former and, of course, the present one, who has been in position. As I have already mentioned, the report we are dealing with is a separate one, which means, of course, that the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry and a member of the Liberal Democracy, Mr Leopold Kremjar, disagrees with the essential issues of this report. Mr Kremjar broadly explained the conflict of interest between the Commission of Inquiry and the Attorney-General, when she refused to give the Commission the documents requested and decided which documents were relevant to the Commission and which documents were not. It states that there is a legal void here that should be regulated. That's what his separate opinion says. I personally disagree with that. I'll tell you why not. I'm saying that the matter is perfectly clear. The Constitution, which is over every law, over all laws, over the decisions of the Constitutional Court, is best known by the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, since they have abolished the Constitutional Court's decision by amending the Constitution in relation to the electoral system. So the Constitution, which is above all this, is also against either the state prosecutor or the minister of justice, then the state prosecutor, Zdenko Cerar. It is clear in Article 93 that the Commission of Inquiry has the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of inquiry and examination. Each body is obliged, nothing says that it can and so on, but is obliged to give the court the requested documents, which of course also applies to the relation of the commission of inquiry, which examines the attack on journalist Petka as the general prosecutor of the State, so this was also the case with the then general prosecutor, Mrs Zdenko Cerar. There's no dilemma here. And every other explanation is simply dilettarian, and I can't find another word for it. There is also no need to abolish any law in this direction, since the Constitution for the normal understanding of man is clear. It is true, however, that some in the Liberal Democracy often interpret laws in terms of creative interpretation of law. Let us recall the former fellow Member, who is today at the embassy somewhere, explaining here that the legislation was creatively interpreted. Mrs Zdenka Cerar, former Attorney-General and current Justice of the Ministry, obviously does not respect the Constitution and such a person the Liberal Democracy declared an elite legal expert a month ago. This is also welcomed, unfortunately, by the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry and a member of the Liberal Democracy, who imagines that, because he is a member of this party, he also has all the legal knowledge. Of course, I personally don't think so. I'm a layman myself in this area, but I know that the Constitution is above all laws in the country. I am a layman myself in this area, and I know that the Constitution is above all laws in this country, except for the Liberal Democracy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But there will also be times when it will remain over Liberal Democracy. Mrs Zdenka Cerar fought hard to transfer the power of the Mir Petk attack from Slovenj Gradc to another prosecutor's office, which, of course, did a great deal of damage to the judicial proceedings. And she is also grateful that things are there today, but unfortunately they are. In his opinion, Mr Kremjar also stood up for banking and thus the New Credit Bank in Maribor. He's beginning to worry that no one in the bank circles would be mentioned in connection with the background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk. Mr Kremjar's concern for bankers does not surprise me, as, as I am informed by the banking circles in Maribor, I believe it is connected. But he'll have a chance to say it whether it's true or not. According to the information I have, it's been quite a while for once I have a word and listen, Mr. Kremjar! [[...]] Madam Vice President, I have the floor, don't I?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you so much for the heads-up. You have the word, however, be careful when accusing your colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u157	I am talking about the report and, of course, a separate opinion, that's all I'm talking about. I ask whether it is true that you were Mr Kremjar, a marketer through your private company and had personal contacts in the banking circles, i.e. for the bank, and were associated with this. If so, of course your membership in the commission of inquiry is also questionable. As a member of the investigative commission, it should be known that the law on the investigative commission in Article 3 provides that a Member may not participate in the investigative committee if he is a responsible person in the body or legal person whose activity is under investigation during the time and to whom the investigation relates. If Mr Kremjar has been and is still connected with the banking circles that Miro Petek critically wrote about, then we can question his, that is, your objectivity in the work of the commission of inquiry, or we can conclude that your task of not disclosing was to stop him. Mr Kremjar, you also point out that the Commission of Inquiry, unlike others, was united in its work, since there were no opposition fighting in it. Please! I would point out from my experience that it is not good that there is too much unity in the commission of inquiry. Each commission of inquiry shall have representatives of all political parties in its composition, and it is right that the views be broken. Otherwise, the Commission of Inquiry may act swiftly in accordance with the inquisitorial principle. This is pointed out by country theorists who have a much longer democratic tradition - ours is only thirteen years old - and practice in the field of parliamentary investigation. Mr Kremjar also forgot how the party of the Liberal Democracy acted when it blocked the work of the investigative commission at the outset. You'll remember that. Mr Kremjar wanted to become President in any way, which is, of course, politically unhygienic. Last but not least, the parliamentary investigation is the weapon of the opposition, even more so with us, because we have one and the same party all the time in power. Well, Mr. Kremjar has become vice-president after all. And as in his separate opinion and his public appearances, he had previously hampered the parliamentary investigation as he had sought to succeed. Of course, this is simply not fair from a journalist's colleague, Mir Petk, who was attacked. It should be quite the other way around in order for him to run the work of the commission of inquiry with all his might, and not with his own hesitation, to obstruct the work. The biggest flower in your separate opinion, Mr Kremjar, is the claim that there was no political background for the attack on the journalist. Please! I claim the matter has a political connotation. We have evidence of this every day when we read newspapers or watch television. In general, not all, but some journalists glorify experts from both the Liberal Democracy and the United List; they are the best economists, they are the best foreign policy strategies are the best internal policy guides, they are the best environmentalists and so on. Of course, then it comes to being the most beautiful, the most elegant and all this nonsense. But they give priority to customers who have been in power for decades, unfortunately. If anyone thinks or even dares to write otherwise - right after him and gets them, even if necessary, with a baseball bat on his head. In front of the courts there are always one and the same names of journalists such as Slivnik, Markesh, Šurla, Guzelj, Vasle, Steinbuch and so on. As I recall in the media, it has been reported that the Commission of Inquiry intends to even call some of these journalists for questioning. But there was nothing out of it - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In my opinion, this is a great shame, as we could say a lot from our experience about the situation on the Slovenian press scene. The Commission of Inquiry has processed and assessed the situation in Slovenian journalism, in my opinion, too mild and incomplete. I miss a chapter in terms of the assessment of journalism in Slovenia, which is unfortunately uncritical to or exclusively to the governing policy and worst of all: not only is it uncritical, it is also unobjective and there is a big problem here. He realizes, of course, the media power and purposeful use of his views as he does. Of course, I also miss this in the work of this commission of inquiry, for example, some sharp analysis and assessment of the writing and speaking of Slovenian journalists through the media - background investigation, such as owned Slovenian media houses, human resources policies, teacher work assessments with future journalists and so on. We could immediately identify the great impact of policy right on the branch of government. Such a system has been perfectly controlled - remember 50 years ago which system. Unfortunately, it's not much better. From the content of writing by the vast majority of Slovenian journalists, which is extremely lame to the ruling policy, it is clear that they are influenced by the policies of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. This, of course, leads to an indisputable assessment that the attack on journalist Mir Petk is, if not directly, indirectly linked. As has been the case today, my predecessor spoke about the fact that there is now a bad light on this work of the commission of inquiry and also the report on the decision of Mr Mir Petk to join politics. If Mr Miro Petek had agreed to run for office on the list of Liberal Democracy - i.e., the representatives of the Liberal Democracy had previously "verbalized" him for this function, then this would be today to welcome, but now that he has decided otherwise, this is a difficult and weakening situation. If he wrote there that he wanted to influence the work of the judicial authorities with his work, then he had, I believe, in that he would, of course, be able to influence the adoption and amendment of legislation that is bad. Remember in 1994, what legislation - most of these Members and Members who have not sat here, you are not guilty, but of course it is a political option, which we have adopted by amending the law on criminal procedure and criminal code. Thus, the cases that were formerly criminal were obsolete instead of in the 10s in the 6 years, but that is precisely when most of these cases were coming to an end, against treatment, against judgements and so on. That is, I believe, his good, honest and noble purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Kremjar, Mr Pukšič really needs you because - you can like yourself, but one thing has been extremely unfairly presented, namely the status of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. In order not to be biased, I merely present an article of the Rules of Procedure: "If a parliamentary inquiry has been initiated at the request of a third of Members," in this case, and not only the opposition, even the coalition signatures have been, you yourself have said, "they have all the parliamentary groups in the commission of inquiry equal number of members. The President of the Commission of Inquiry shall be elected from the Members who have submitted an application for parliamentary investigation." One of them was also your fellow Member, Leopold Kremažar. To inform him after working in this investigative committee of his bias, because when the assembly appointed him to the commission and now to report on the links and incompatibilities of the two functions, because of what you have stated today, I think the President of the investigative commission should probably protest strongly. Mr. Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. You know, a man is sometimes ashamed, and I'm ashamed right now. I'm always ashamed of others in my life because of others' statements, not because of my own. But I guess I'll get used to it for the rest of my working life, because people have a ceiling that they can reach that they can't cross, and that's probably normal in life. I've got mine too, and there's obviously some level differences. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I expect, as Madam Vice-President has said, because I do not intend to politicise such things because it is not worthy of this national assembly. Of course, I expect the President only to explain my role as Vice-President, although something has already been said, this commission and whether I have acted, I do not know how it was said, destructively, dissuasively, I do not know what. But this is my request to the President. His good will is whether he does it or not. There's something else, by the way, about those questions that won't go around. We have a lot of banks, banking institutions in this country. On the committee we talked about one bank and I was really working, you know, one person we've been doing some important things in life so far, which is important, and I was the director of a bank, not a bank, but a banking institution. But this doesn't have any connection with this bank we're talking about, it's a completely different bank, and it has no connection to the New Maribor Credit Bank. So much so, buddy Pukšič, that then sometimes you get information different if you're shooting with them; but that's irrelevant. What is important is to say that the diletarian interpretation - I am talking about article 14, which was discussed, the law on parliamentary investigation, that this is a dilettarian interpretation - I apologize, but I must say that this, I do not hope to say it out loud, but this explanation, which was so characterized, at the legal void, at the legal hole that was cited by me, was quoted by the President of the Commission, we have repeatedly written about it, not only by professors: Dr. Ljubo Bavcon, Prof. Dr. Franc City, Prof. Igor Kavčič and prof.dr. Rajko Pirnat. This is, as it was said, a diletarian explanation. I'm sorry, I have to say this connection. But it's simply about the following, for those of you who, of course, can listen to certain things seriously and you understand, it's about something else. Article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation gives the Parliamentary Investigative Commission the right to assess what it requires, to whom it requests and to receive it. The Public Prosecutor's Act gives the prosecution a clear right to judge what he can give to someone if I simplify it a little bit. And here is the imbalance between these two and here is the guidance of these distinguished gentlemen who are very seriously engaged in this legal matter and very well that this is a legal void that needs to be removed. And that is why we in our Group of Members, I was the bearer of this, have prepared a change in the law to be tabled or to be tabled in the next term, but it is already ready to resolve this confusion and in the event of a dispute - because now in the event of a conflict, as these four honourable gentlemen find out, only one can judge; the one who would not judge, because it is not written, they believe that it could only be a constitutional court, but it is not written down, so it is a legal void and therefore it must be removed. You have to read it, it's written down, if anyone reads it, you can see it. Look, just a few words about this. That day - and I'll tell you why I'm talking about it, because I didn't want to talk about it - the day we had a meeting of the National Assembly and we found out what had happened earlier with the respected Peace Friday, I'm alone because I've been informed by the Editorial Office of the Evening, my acquaintances there what had happened, appalled, upset and, of course, convinced that Parliament must say something about it. That's why they texted me, not the other way around. I walked around collecting signatures for this and then I took the Secretary-General away and there was a protest against such an act, when we didn't really know what it was. All we knew was that it happened, and we were already appalled. Then I was a cosigner of the request for the establishment of an investigative commission, co-signatory as a Member here. I can also say a co-initiator, I can also say - and this can be confirmed by my colleagues - that I have asked and persuaded, including my fellow journalists, who are some of the former journalists in this national council, that they are participating in this committee because of all that needs to be done. These can be verifiable matters and, as you can see, quite a number of fellow journalists have participated in this committee. When it came to the presidency, we were just before I was appointed president. And if I wanted to, I'd be named president. As you will recall, at the session of the Kviaz, I was then in the good offices of the commission, working for this commission, continuing my work, so that the commission would be and that the work would continue, because otherwise it probably would not be, I resigned. I resigned, no one expelled me from this commission or from the presidency, but I resigned so that the commission could act. But, so much for this, this is about some details, which, of course, for the public, I don't think are necessary. There's something else I'd like to say. In general - and this was my purpose, this was now some replica, unnecessary and strange and, of course, it would be good if it did not need such replicas, but unfortunately it is. Generally speaking, the work of the investigators, if we call ourselves that, as Members of the Commissions of Inquiry, I must say that the work is not easy and it would be good to take care of the renovation, I will say, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, Rules of Procedure, all the things connected. There are many tiny or smaller gaps that need to be filled and are things that need to be changed. We have also found this on our investigative committee, and we have even agreed that one of the most important tasks is to encourage this change, that we do not have virtually all the commissions, and this is not just because of political will or the trouble of having unfinished things. That we have two stories about weapons that are unfinished, also probably for some procedural reasons, that we have - virtually all the commissions do not finish their work. In most cases, it was probably politics, because it did not want some things to be addressed, but also a lot of things are in the legislation, in carrying out this and the work of investigators, of course, would not be easy, but it would be necessary. This seems to me to be a very important message that we need to take this matter seriously. Of course, we also have commissions that have been entrusted - not to mention them - that some things that have not been resolved are taking them forward, but they are not. Of course, if I want to be a little ugly and I don't want to, I have to say that all the investigative commissions are practically run by opposition colleagues, which, of course, seems very hygienic and right and should remain so in the future. But we also need to know that, of course, someone may have a different opinion and I think that democracy is also within these commissions to express a different opinion than it is. The case mentioned above, Mira Petka, who has engaged or will engage in pro-policy forecasts - I do not think he should seduce us in this story that we are talking about. Miro Petek has every right to deal with politics or journalism, which is what he decides and what the will of the electorate in this case will allow or deny him. I mean, the next thing I know, it doesn't matter to this case. This is not a story that would be important to this case. We talk about much higher goals, such as Miro Friday or Leo Kremjar as a person, about much higher goals. We are discussing that he was a beaten and almost murdered journalist, professionally in the performance of almost his professional work and in the performance of his professional work. And this story, whether Miro Friday goes to any party or not, I would say the same thing if I went to the United List, DeSUS, LDS, anyone, is irrelevant to that, and we shouldn't be hindered by what we're talking about and what we're thinking. It is a case that I do not repeat, it is a public word, it is an attack on this public word, it is a matter of preventing a public word, and in this case Miro Petek as a person does not matter, Miro Petek as a person may or may not be a Member, he may be a journalist or not a journalist, so he would be very happy if these things were not connected, because we are talking about the case, we are talking about much higher things than one person as a person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much. He was quoting you, may I have a word for Mr. Kremjar's replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u161	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. The first statement, which was not correct, is, when you said, Mr Kremjar, that I was talking about article 14 of the law on investigative commission and dilettarianism - is not true. I was saying, from the magnetogram you can see, about Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 93 of the Constitution, and here I said that the one who interprets the Constitution differently than it does in the constitution -- that's dilettarian. So that's what I was talking about. And another statement that's not correct. I have talked about what is said in the law on the commission of inquiry, namely, the law on parliamentary investigation provides in Article 3 that Members cannot participate in the commission of inquiry - and then lists which does not. Now you have answered that you were involved in something; now more or less, this duty of yours was to say safely on the investigative committee, as we did on our investigative committee, which I led, found that one of the members who was who could not be a member, because he was then interrogated as a witness. And only this about the opinions prepared by the experts. All right, they are. It should be known, however, that they were paid by Minister Bohinc and that the interest of the police was what was shown throughout the investigation and the reports. So, the interest was that the clues would be wiped out, not discovered, and that's problematic. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Replica to replica, Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I think everyone or almost everyone in this national council understood what I said. Firstly, the bank was not the subject of an investigation. Secondly, Nova Credit Bank Maribor is one institution. I ran some other bank's financial institution. If that's not clear enough, then it's gonna be hard to explain. Is there no reason anyone in this committee should be involved - but then should we be exempted because we are both reading the evening with our fellow Vice-President? Is that supposed to be a reason for us to get off the committee, because we could. I mean, buddy Pukšič, please, you've made a mistake with what you've been saying, so just accept this mistake and stop getting deeper and deeper into mistakes. The answer to your question, once again, is: no, there is no reason for anyone and also for himself to be exempt, because I have never worked in this institution and not for this institution. I don't know if it's clear enough now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Pukšič, we have been in this National Assembly and Rules of Procedure for four years - I know that it is foreign to you, more than not, but you know exactly when the possibility is exhausted that the replica is no longer. Dr. Bernick has the word. Here you go. [[Back-up advertising.]] Read the rules of procedure, please. Dr. Bernick, please. [[Back-up advertising.]] Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] You don't know him well. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u165	Madam Vice-President, I am giving up and giving my colleague a chance to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u166	You are very kind, but the rules of procedure also do not give you this option. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have restricted the opposition many times in this national assembly, and you are still acting in two ways today. He's been named, and he's entitled to a replica once again. And I ask you to give him the upper hand. You're gonna give it to him? Well, then I see you insist on violating the rules of procedure. Now would you like to ask Mr. Bernick if he would take the time to speak? Do you give Mr. Bernick a word or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u168	You've got to be kidding me. Mr Bernick had a word and said he would not discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Then I'll talk now. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a report by the commission of inquiry on the Friday case, on this brutal attack, aimed at killing a journalist from Koroška, Miroslav Petk, who was transparently researching the pages of privatisation stories, wild property and so on. And it didn't happen for the first time that something happened between these Cora Hills where a positive person wanted to be removed. A person who should be supported by Slovenian politics. It happened even before that, when they also wanted to plough Koroška police and Slovenian soldiers who fought at the Vič-Holmec border crossing on their own. A commission of inquiry was also established there and there is a lot of similarity. This was encouraged by the constant uplift that this happened, that they wanted to remove or destroy or to discredit positive people. In Friday's matter, a certain upsurge of an elite - Mr Petek called it the kleptomanian elite, I heard - who seemed to be able to pick up in a kleptomanic way everything that was previously social, say, or general. And in the case of Vič-Holmec, a certain governmental tendency, the power of government, to suppress those who actually fought, to take away their own capital. Look, there's been a few breakdowns between the two of us. Plus this happened in both cases - here in Friday's case they wanted to silence the research journalist. In the case of Vič-Holmec also to silence, say, the journalist Ranc by violating human rights, by listening to the illegal and so on - the High Political Representative, who has now been rewarded. And also the negative persons in this investigation in the case of the Vice-Homec are rewarded. Bad guys! It's so much in common. It is also common that the President of both commissions, which I led, has been under pressure in various ways. I recall that the lawyer of an important Korean entrepreneur, mentioned in this story, threatened to warn the Ambassador that he was a local sheriff, and said who was stopping at him even though he was completely at the end of a valley, where only one road leads, so the president was even supervised. It didn't happen the first time. They also controlled, at least that's what it felt like, Mr. Mojet. Now I would like to say that this Commission has done a great deal of work in my opinion and that all the Slovenian investigative commissions have done a great deal of work. But she was in a slightly better situation because it was about attacking a journalist, limiting journalistic freedom of speech and writing, where journalists were aware of this commission or asked themselves, "whom it was ringing" and they realized that it was ringing to them, their right to freedom of writing, their freedom of journalism. They were careful about it, and the commission could, thank God, work by working with the public. And pressure from the public has only only helped to support the establishment of an investigative commission by all the parliamentary groups. The path to the commission of inquiry was difficult, difficult. I also remember you, Madam Vice-President, that you have been sceptic or that you first said that you should not sign this commission of inquiry, but also some. This coalition agreement states that you will not support any commission of inquiry, whatever happens. Only after there was 30 votes from that group, but then there was a rush to sign, and then they all wanted to sign. And that was the way to the commission, that was the way to go. And today, when we discuss these results of this commission and we know what has happened and what has happened and that the commission at each hearing has found something that one day before or in the investigation has not been telling the truth or that it has received them on such trivial matters and it has only begun to move the investigation, the actual investigation that the prosecution would have had to carry out by then. I am sure that without an investigative commission today, even the perpetrators would not sit in court because there was no political will - until then. They had individuals in the police, they were doing a good job, we, the members of the intelligence work committee, we've seen on several occasions that criminals have done a lot of collecting data, and that they knew very early who the perpetrators were, and I can argue on this basis, on the basis that if the political will were appropriate in the country, they would also have been contracting before the court. They would also be contracting in court, but in the initial stage of the political line, there was much to be done so that the evidence could be erased, and those who knew that they had dirty fingers could wash their hands. But if, as I say, that would be the will, and today the matter would be closed, I believe. And we know, of course, that it was not the wish for the matter to be transferred from the prosecution in Slovenj Gradc to another prosecution; that the Attorney General, Mrs Cerarjeva, strongly rejected this. That's what she's been throwing away. All laymen know that Koroška is in fact such a cause, as journalist Friday writes, that the prosecutors there had no practical opportunity not to be influenced by these powerful people, with strong political support that pressured them. I'm not saying those prosecutors are that bad. But they did not have this option, but the Attorney General prevented or refused. Today she is probably rewarded for this today to be a candidate on the LDS list. I've heard that LDS has also been very intensely convincing, lobbying Mira Petk to get on their list, and others would withdraw from him. But Miro Friday, as a positive in this story, couldn't perform with the bad guys in this story. And I think he made the right decision. See, in this story, in these matters, there have been strong pressures on other journalists since then. Thus, the banker and theMaribor president of the newspaper board gave that it was not a matter for journalists to write about banking matters, about these strange transactions, that journalists should not do it and do it. And thank God that this matter was triggered not only by Slovenian journalism, but also by international journalism and that some petitions were signed at the time, that this matter was overcome and today it is still evolving. See, when Miro Petek wrote about these matters, about these irregularities, there are some who are bad guys in these stories, and because the public thinks they are bad guys, or in Koroška, they say that they know where the highest representatives of the state are, who the contracting authorities were getting awards, who received awards for the management works, who gave them the highest representatives of the country. I'm sure you'd be in the same forum as these managers today, 100% would be because they were moving around in their society if the public didn't recognize these things. And I have to say that I am surprised that not all the parties in this story share positive negative personalities, that the bad guys in this story are actually trying to promote politically, although I am happy to see customers making such mistakes. And finally, let me say again: I think the commission of inquiry here has done a lot of work. And even though at the beginning of our party's initiative to set up this commission of inquiry, many with different explanations or persuasions have tried to convince us that this is still an active case, that this is not for the commission of inquiry and so on. Think if you agreed to these arguments, how the thing would be blocked! It would remain among the Koroki hills, the thing would not move forward and this would be the worst blow for journalism in Slovenia. Today, Slovenian journalists are under pressure, and I admire them to write so neutrally, we know a lot of stories about how they are being pressured by capital, how some editors are also putting pressure on them. And if today or if this matter is not investigated on Friday to the end, the Slovenian journalists are again writing bad times. I am confident, or I hope, that now that there will be a lot of debate about the elections, this kind of pressure on all the law enforcement authorities not to sweep things under the carpet, not to close the folders, not to investigate, this person is dedicated, this person is, for example, a good friend of this and this policy. I hope that this will now be prevented by the help of the public and that the matter will end positively for the benefit of the Slovenian public, for the benefit of the Slovenian state, for the benefit of journalism and for the benefit of political culture and democracy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm not in the bench, but two perfect lies on my account were said today. Firstly, I could not replicate because you, Mr Zammernik, poetically represented the position of your Group of Members. And unjustifiable. [[...]] [[Shut it down from the bench.]] I wasn't laughing at anything, Mrs. Shirca's colleague just asked you who these people are. You took this opportunity to give the following statement, which is not bad for me, is bad for the person you qualified on the basis of my so-called statements. You said that "because Irma's colleague had been on the prosecution in Slovenj Gradc for six months and she was saying that things were chaotic, and that's why she left, our commission could also conclude on this basis that the reason for the transfer of the case to Maribor was the inability of the prosecutor." You once asked me in the hallway when Mr Petek told you that in my youth when I was running for the prosecution, I quickly left. I replied that I did not agree with the way I worked there, but I never gave an assessment that I had left because the prosecutor would have been incompetent and I could not, and I would not have hoped to give it to myself. So you've never heard from my mouth that the prosecutor is incompetent, and I'm capable of leaving. It doesn't matter. I didn't agree with the way it worked. And you've never been able to qualify for the job of a prosecutor on the basis of what I'm saying, it would be funny. Mr Jerovšek, I should not have signed the request for a parliamentary inquiry. I sat behind you with the president of your party, Mr. Janša, and I asked him if you had studied the exact work in order not to jeopardize the investigation into the attack on Mira Petk. That was my only thought, so I did a discussion with Mr Janša on the subject. Never and never did anyone in my task force ever ask me to do anything that I should or should not do, which I have not decided. And then there was something like that, and that was the worst. Mr. Geza, please. [[Back-up advertising.]] There's no replica because I took the word for a replica from this town, I'm sorry there was no one here to replace me. [[Back-up advertising.]] Here you go, Mr. Juban. Mr. Juban, your word. Please don't disturb him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I am pleased that I did not participate in one part of today's debate, but I would be more pleased if I did not participate in these last discussions. In fact, when I listened to my colleagues, how they dealt with the Friday case, I have to admit out loud, probably the cameras are here, that I'm worried, and that I'm a little scared if they really happened or if it's going to happen, like they want to solve cases. The way you go through every legal system to keep pointing at someone is because you have to be guilty, and you're going to be beheaded. Headed - I mean in a transferable sense. That our fellow Member was the initiator of this commission, that he was collecting signatures, that he encouraged his colleagues to cooperate, that the case of his fellow resident is being investigated and that he is being discredited on such an ugly, rude, shared way that we have heard here today goes beyond all borders. And that's how you'd solve it? We'd point to someone -- it's your fault! Without any proof! But that's why the problem was at the beginning of the commission that the Kremlin shouldn't be because you had a fiction: LDS must be guilty! Here, only here were our concerns, and I think that Comrade Kremjar has specifically withdrawn and I hope to say that it seems to me that the colleague of the Ambassador has also led the matter correctly in public performances, probably to the end, because even in a certain opinion and report by the Commission I do not see such a terrible difference, but at least that he is discredited in such a way as a castle and a rude way as we have listened to here. I was among those all the time, so, I don't know if anyone was, that he didn't want this dirty story to come to an end. Now we have her with us on Murski Sobota, but we don't see her end. Just as the commission didn't bring you anywhere, except that some colleagues still see: it was your fault! And what they're pointing at is a finger. We're guilty, but we don't know who they are. Two people know for sure who they are - at least that's how they behave. Where does that lead? Of course, this is some story that is concerned about journalism, about the rule of law, about all of us, what happened in Koroška. The only thing wrong is making this a dirty policy. This is why I came forward - not because of what I've been doing right now, but because I always have some parallels. Look, the reporter Friday was beaten, the commission was formed, the police that was in the hands of the loyal CEO, you, the ones you say to us. The burner said, "We breathe for them as a collar." Did he do everything he was supposed to do? Ask him because you're with him most of the time, at least you were or you were. And the matter has come, one you say far, for my ideas it hasn't come very far, the commission of inquiry. She's come to some point. She probably helped to move the matter - she moved and moved - that the perpetrators of the acts were to be discovered, because for my understanding too there are many incomprehensible stories that she could witness for once for this money in this direction and then testify for another money in another direction, unacceptable and incomprehensible. I was talking about a parallel. We had another similar fight, or almost, the same many years ago, in the Depali village. And we know exactly that Smolnikar was beaten with rifle hooves, his head was smashed, we know exactly who the performers were, we know exactly who the subscriber was. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] And we know who protected the contracting authority. You said before, it seems to me [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We know exactly who protected the contractor that the story is outdated and, of course, we rewarded the prosecutor for special purposes with a coat of European judges. And nothing happened. But here's my problem, maybe a personal problem, that my whole story is collapsing; when this one, the most affected one, Miro Friday is identified as beatings of the same kind as he was beaten. We know where those from Depala village belonged, who protected them, who was the subscriber in a similar story, and here I don't understand any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Your debate was not at all problematic, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you very much. In support of the establishment of a parliamentary commission, I had concerns about the possibility of, or that such an investigation would be extended and politicised. This doubt I've had just today, maybe ever again, has been confirmed. I must therefore say that I like the solution brought by the European Constitution, which allows investigative commissions within the European Parliament only when they are not disguised by an already initiated judicial process or by the process of clearance, because only after the legal facts have been clarified can those answers and research that examine the involvement of public interest functions be initiated. In this respect, my doubts were also expressed at that time. Today we have heard that the main purpose of the "including" commission of inquiry, says Mr Rokavec, was also to determine the involvement of public functions. That's not true. That was the main purpose, not the "including" edism between purposes. In fact, the whole report goes in this sense when two objectives are being sought: one thing the group should be investigating, what it should be investigating, whether it should be looking for the perpetrator or only the linkage of public function holders in this case, of course. Today it was also said that if there was no commission of inquiry, the case would already be under the carpet. In view of all the activities that have taken place, even past the Commission of Inquiry, it is thus highly underestimating to say, especially in relation to the activity in which the international press association has been active, and the media space itself, which is undoubtedly also evidenced by the files on Mr Zammernik's table, if they are collected in them, as he said, by media contributions. While I must add that the President of the Commission of Inquiry and, doubtless, the letter, Mr Zammernik, is on the committee of inquiry, as has already been said, as the head of the commission of inquiry, may have mixed two levels, this is the search for the perpetrator, which, in my opinion, would otherwise have been done by the authorised authorities, but at the same time he said during the investigation alone that he would resign if he did not find a deadline and appoint the perpetrator. Now I don't understand if he found it, but he's not in the report, because there's definitely no such derogation. The Commission has not proved a political background or, if I quote the report, "the attack itself probably has no political background". And it is allowed for the possibility that at least indirectly involved one of the public function holders later in the matter. Of course, this is a flat-rate finding, and I like that the additional report, which Mr Kremjar has contributed as a separate opinion, is the essential territory of these very relative and indeterminate and vague terms which lead to the possibility and conclusion that is understood at this point in time by each individual in a different light. However, it is certainly also a moment to consider such a report, when the process at the top of its case-law level is perhaps even inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Would you like to correct Mrs. Shirtz's statement as a proposal? Mr. School is still ahead of you. [[Back-up advertising.]] Can Mr. Skolcz and Anderlič go and then in the end? Because of me you may have a word, I have none, Mr. Ambassador Right, please. Here you go, Mr. Zampernik. Mr. Viceroy, you have the floor. I've already asked you twice to have your word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Of course, I would be happy to give my first word to my colleague, Školč. However, it has been now, as you have seen, that for a long time I have not been involved in the debate, which is to some degree ambiguity, inaccuracies which, at the end of the proposal, need further clarification. First of all, I must take to the defense of Vice President Comrade Kremjar. As President, I have never been able to detect any bias on his part in relation to the bank, anything at all. But I was grateful to him once, that's what you, Comrade Kremjar, will probably remember when you brought in a magnetogram at the next meeting, which was very extensive and you said you were horrified to find out how much you were talking. But I liked it very much that you can also admit your mistake, and I consider that a good thing. Again, there were no indications that he would have acted in any way biasedly. Thus, it would be difficult to take into account the words spoken here by some other parties. That we wrote in the report that the commission assumed it was incompetence. Of course, it's not just that conversation in the hallway -- that would be really funny. It is precisely written in here that it is controversial and very controversial, which I have specifically stressed as a proponent, the qualification of injuries. That's what I was talking about as a proponent. If the qualification of the injuries were as qualified in Slovenj Gradec, it is said that they are only particularly serious injuries, which medical experts have estimated that this cannot be so qualified. Because if it is a particularly serious bodily injury, a person must be permanently unable to work, so the Maribor prosecution has otherwise qualified this, which was the most obvious and also very clearly recorded in the report. And a little bit of that was added by you. A severe and very serious statement was and of course also an insult that "Miro Friday" - I hope that I have just recorded it, we can look at the magnetogram - "determined for fighters of the same metal". I can proudly say that during this three-year period with Mir Petk, I could say, a friendly relationship, because we had to, and not only had to, but we were happy to do a lot of work. And now he thinks I'm the one who beat the shit out of him. This probably would not have been the case if he had eliminated his address under Najevsko Lipa, Miro Petek, and ran for the LDS - then he would not have been identified as the same type of fighter. That's how I believe that this is doomed to a colleague and that he's going to take away what he said. Madam, who has been reading to me, of course, this is again a falsification, which, in these eight years, I am not surprised that I have announced a withdrawal if the perpetrators are not found. Apparently, not only did Mr Kremjar forget about the thing and I talked about it before, he forgot about this letter that I said then, he forgot that Bogdan Ribič had no wife, but that we were talking about others, he forgot that the police picnics were still important, and that the financing of these, for example Friday, was not resolved as it should have been. I am therefore not surprised that Shirtz's colleague has forgotten what was then the subject of my resignation statement, which I offered to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, at the time. At that time, the Attorney General assessed the work of the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenj Gradc as great, so that it could hardly be better. If you remember, I personally and also the commission joined this assessment, this letter I received from the Slovenian prosecutor, marked as a free file, and then I said if the ministry or the government would agree with the assessment made by the Attorney General that the Slovenian prosecutor was doing well and O. K., then I'll consider stepping down. That was the whole story. Mrs Shirca, you can make sure that this is the case and of course I do not want to convince you that this is the case if you think otherwise. But you can be sure I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Here you go. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u177	I apologize for so many performances, obviously the magnetogram thing holds and, of course, I will not speak to my colleague Jerovsk, who is waving and saying strange things there. Comrade Ambassador, I would just like to say this: I have not forgotten anything, it may happen that a man forgets, but I have not forgotten anything. I initially said that in my separate opinion there was a mistake, and instead of Andrej Skutnik's wife writing to Bogdan Ribič's wife, this is a mistake in printing, and this is not a forgetfulness, this is a mistake that I warned myself about. The other things I'm supposed to forget, I have to say, I don't know what it is that I've forgotten. Then you can show me that we are not burdening this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much. So, I would start my assessment with Mr Petk's position, who, if correctly quoted, said he was disappointed because things around the contracting authority had not moved from a dead point and that the epilogue had been waiting for years. If all this discussion has already been caused by this story, which began with Mir Petk, then we can only take this assessment as some kind of starting point for assessing our work as well as the works of others involved. On the inside of this debate, I think it makes sense to define as much as the material we received on the bench and luckily is no longer confidential as the period of debate in the National Assembly today, which is public and which is just as important in putting things in place. For speaking, expressing one’s views, condemning, if pronounced from any city, has its weight. They have a special weight if they are evicted from a privileged parliamentary seat, which they like to refer to immunity when it is necessary to prove one of the claims. From this point of view, all these things that have been said here today must be taken very seriously and some of these things, which have been said here, must be truly feared. Because, to lead, I will say, the terrible will of all of us to come to a bottom is not a sufficient excuse to be able to uncompromisingly judge things or point to anyone. I believe that our investigative commission could no longer do so substantially. Last but not least, it's probably a rare situation where everyone's acting in the same direction. From this point of view, I will clearly support these reports, regardless of the things they will have to do in these reports, as has been said several times before - first of all, he has given this dramatic warning, if I am not mistaken, my colleague Barovic, later my colleague Ptrč, to be defined. The assessment of things that happened later in the police and the Ministry of the Interior, and in the prosecution or in the competent prosecutor's office, that we will not say what the experts say is, but that there is no such subordination to be able to speak directly, is said in the Prosecutor's Office and in the Ministry of Justice, the assessments are worrying not to say devastating. But I'm going to accept them anyway, because I think they're allowing some possibility of further discussion. But what I'm about to do in this matter, as one of them, and I'm not going to call him not to kill me later with unnecessary replicas, I'm going to tell the timely signatories, the ones who made this third possible. So, I'm particularly interested in getting to the bottom of this. About the other relationships I have with my former classmate, Mr. Friday, I wouldn't talk about it because it doesn't make any sense. However, from this point of view, this claim, which is stated that at this stage of the investigation it is not possible to confirm the involvement of public function holders, nor can they be excluded, is that claim, which in fact means an explicit recognition that the Commission has not actually realized the expectation we set up. In this, of course, I do not feel any satisfaction, because any claim, either to confirm or reject this thesis, would make it significantly easier for me to act in politics. That's what I was talking about when we set up the commission. But this claim, the hand on the heart, which we will also accept, means that the commission has not actually done the work for which it was established. Of course, I'm not accusing anyone of that. The fact that we accept the assessment that this commission has undoubtedly played, as has been said here on several occasions, the important role of pressure to clear up this background of the attack on Mira Petk is probably correct. I agree that this pressure, which has also been exerted through Parliament and through all others, has sustained some tension and has probably caused some anxiety in the law enforcement authorities. But when we make such a claim, of course, this claim still has a lot of memories. In fact, as it was said here, without the political will, the perpetrators would not be behind bars and more later, but if political will were available, the contracting authorities would also be behind bars. This means that, in fact, we do not recognize any work to the prosecution or to these investigators or to the police. And more. It means that we do not really understand the role of Parliament and that we have embarked on a very slippery area. I don't believe that the person who said that in a passion is basically bent against sharing power and that he doesn't understand it. But what he's saying, and speaking is the only tool, and if anyone prefers the weapon we have, it's the one that has to be responsible and that can be very dangerous. It is therefore necessary to analyse what such an assessment of the fact that this pressure has caused something to be done and otherwise does not mean. Of course, it means something good in terms of finding the truth and, of course, means something bad in terms of how we understand the functioning of the system. I couldn't believe my ears when Mr Tsukati analyzed the situation of why it happened. He literally said that capital threatened freedom of speech and consequently democracy. Such a general assessment is an assessment that is feared, I'll say, by the most radical Bolsheviks. That's it. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Well, I listened to him. I say when we say it that way, when we reason it, let's be some ghosts, that's why I'm talking about it. I said I'd talk about what was written and what was said. In 2004, after all of this happened, basically, protecting against capital, it seems kind of bizarre to me, but you have to listen. And you have to listen to it, especially if that's what a tough conservative says. What does that mean? I'm not gonna hand it over. Of course, in a way, it saddens me that all matters are being instrumentalised for political purposes. From this point of view, nothing helps to tell us who was on the first, who was on the 17th, and I don't know which place to sign, and from this I don't know what. Or even more, from what has been said here, I think, first of all, by Mr Potts, that he may be putting this, this candidacy, things into a different light. It just can't hold up, that's two separate cases. Mr Petk's candidacy does not explain things backwards in any way. In no way can it be linked to this, and it means, as has already been said, denying free will that someone decides to do so. I object to that. I'll even say more. I'm sorry he's not on the list. Of course, I did not argue with him myself, and I will be happy if he is in Parliament and thus will make a number of those for whom he is running for office more convincing arguments. I want more of these candidates for you and for Parliament as well. But this has to be separated. And bringing this debate here means that we can't really deal with what we want to do. But here, I'm sorry, I think the Democrats are the most zealous in trying to show them that it's for the truth and not for the others. It's just insulting if there's no evidence of that. Now, I don't think there's a Deputy here who's listening to this very carefully and who hasn't said it, but the other two, who have been measured the ceiling, should have understood it by now. So there is indeed one key issue in these investigative commissions that we are addressing, including the issue of these self-restraints that we have put to us by law. This seems very important to me to clear things up. If we break the rules, we cannot expect others to respect them. And here I am not speaking specifically for this committee, but mainly for this discussion. Here these quips are always bigger than commitment to the law. And maybe that's why it's hard to get to the bottom of things. So, as a matter of fact, we haven't come to the end. The attempt was a good one, but what is happening in the capitalisation of this report is, and I will say bad for Parliament and, finally, it will reduce the burden of work of colleagues who have not been easy on the investigative committee. So let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Run, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I've been quoted twice to be understood. For me, Mr Petk's definition of candidacy has nothing to do with the procedure, but I am concerned that someone thinks he will influence justice because he will be elected to political office. And that's what's written, and that's what worries me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u183	The question is, what is the point of selling and explaining their views in this debate, because it is obvious that, as this debate has received so much, those who think they are more called to advocate the need to clarify the circumstances and reasons for attacking journalist Petko than those who constantly believe that it is necessary to establish circumstances in which, in fact, the judiciary and all the authorities who have been called on to do so can carry out their own and the national assembly through the commission of inquiry. I regret that, at this time, this Commission has actually acted on the border in such a way that it is sustainable, because it is through, from the very beginning, when the question of who could be president to who would ever resign, to what kind of report must be adopted and similar - I am talking about the interim report - until the end of the conclusion that we now have to believe that because of what the Commission was set up, the report does not actually give a "we" answer. Thus, we have not found that it was a matter of circumstances in which politics would be involved. We cannot confirm that any of the holders of public functions, public powers or any of them, particularly public functions, has been involved in one way or another. But let's add something that I think is wrong, but we can't even rule it out. The Commission is therefore not here to investigate whether it is something to exclude or not, but, as in this case, it has all, as in this case, all other investigative commissions have the same task, to determine the involvement of political function holders. Because if we put thesis, we didn't, we didn't figure it out, but, of course, because it's possible, in this implications, because something has happened in court now, some testimony, some indications are, etc., that we're going to connect it, one process with another activity, with the work of the commission of inquiry - I don't think it's going to work. And here I will not support Mr Kremjar's third conclusion. Because when the final report came to me, she found out that she had heard all the witnesses she intended to hear that she was very modest with the interrogator. In that work, it is questionable and incontrovertible why, in fact, this commission of inquiry has not gone in any other direction. If we really need to continue with this committee, and we still have a final report after the interim report, then we should at least say, "We have not been able to hear all the witnesses that we have intended, we have expired our mandate, we have yet, I don't know what indications." But there's something in the back, but no, we're insured with the general thesis, "We couldn't figure it out, we couldn't rule it out." And I don't think this part is correct. For you have been in order to determine, if you have found, you have found and substantiate this with statements, with a report, if you are not, you must also write it as a fact. Or say, "Because of the end of the term, this and that and that remained unexplored, so many and so many people would still need to be interrogated, but we couldn't do that." No, but there was a hurry with the interim report, and there was a hurry with the threats of resignation, and it was important to point out who was more deserving, who was more concerned with the truth. No, gentlemen, long before this Parliament and this country knew the institute of investigative commissions and the determination of the responsibility or involvement of public function holders in what unusual activities, Slovenia spoke and worked on the detection of these uses. Let it go through public speaking, through public assemblies, through a lot of things. And, of course, it's not just the new magazine, but the first one, it's a series of things that have happened in this country. And so I'm asking you to be a little less pathetic in this part and figure out what this is all about. What the commission found out is in the report. I will support the report, I will not support the third decision in a separate opinion from Mr Kremjar, because it seems to me that it is not correct, is not in place. If the new Parliament finds that there is still something open and that we need to continue, as we have already had with regard to weapons, I think that in the next term an investigative commission will have to have it within the third term, or I do not know which, it will also be in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Battelli, we have exhausted the order of the candidates applied for, and we will now open the debate on the amendments tabled. Is that what you'd like to talk about, Mr. Battelli? I conclude and open the debate on the amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 14.07.2004. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I would suggest that the first amendment, which is written down or proposed, withdraw the first amendment because it essentially overlaps with the Commission's basic decision, the Commission's proposal and is therefore unnecessary. However, I propose that we accept the second and the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u187	If I have heard correctly, Mr Kremjar has withdrawn the first amendment, but I suggest that he withdraw all three amendments because I think they are irrelevant. I could say imbecile. In fact, and they are not honourable to a fellow Member, nor to him, nor to his congregation, nor to anything where the mayor is. I'm really proposing to him. I agree, but for another reason, with my colleague Anderlich, it is not delicious to propose the third amendment. In fact, Members of the new call will decide on their own what they will propose for the parliamentary investigation and what they will not propose. This would be an intervention in their independence, their integrity absolutely, they must make a decision in their conscience, and this was something that I think is unheard of. Also another amendment, a separate opinion is a separate opinion, if this amendment were adopted, then they would change the contents of the report, which was, I think, unanimously or in any way adopted or by one vote. But a separate opinion is a separate opinion and we know what a separate opinion is. But we cannot now change the contents of the report through a separate opinion, which I think would be completely unacceptable, and this second amendment follows. And if we did, I mean, in a way, I would rule on what I know, dealing with these acts that are here in the National Assembly on the Commissions of Inquiry - for example, in the Constitutional Court's decisions is a separate opinion, an extremely important separate opinion that remains forever separate. We can take note that he had a separate opinion, but otherwise we would have destroyed, I think, the legal culture in this country. The legal culture here has been horribly disrupted in this debate. As was said or not respected, neither the legal judgment nor the presumption of innocence on the part of Mr Juban, but only so much so that he did not say that he had been beaten too little because he had joined the thugs. I mean, unheard of. It was hanging in the air even if I didn't know what to do with it. And this, Mr Kremjar, this amendment of yours - I really urge you all three to withdraw - this is not at the level of parliamentary debate and adoption of acts. It's actually destroying some legal culture in this country. But you can vote him out, but I don't think he makes sense, but if I say in a neutral word, completely pointless, they're both pointless. And keep at least some of the principles of a legal culture, the rule of law. I think it's absolutely necessary to keep it. So that today, as it was here, I repeat, we do not acknowledge the presumption of innocence in order not to recognise legal judgments, that is, at the height of Stalin's Prosecutor Visinsky to act that way or to speak that way. And I'm asking us to stay reasonable and not do anything like that. Thank you very much. I, for the most part, will not support such proposals and I find it very strange that we would be supported in this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Replication or correction of misstatement, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you very much. What is now "out of the way" is a bit beyond the limits of common sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u190	I'm sorry, Mr. Juban, there's really no time for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u191	I want to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u192	Mr. Juban, you can't, I'm sorry. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, I believe that the second amendment is completely contrary to the law on the commission of inquiry. Since the Law of the Investigative Commission clearly states that such a report is to be adopted, it can, of course, also be a separate opinion. And if a separate opinion is accepted by the State, it will be accepted, not as an amendment to a separate opinion on the subject of the investigative committee's report. That means it's actually, I don't know, out of all context. As far as the second amendment or third amendment is concerned, of course, it is also contrary to the Rules of Procedure and, of course, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There are no those who would impose on Members and Members what they will do in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I must say that we have worked extremely well on this committee all this time, that we have agreed more or less on all matters and that we have also accepted them with the help of the LDS representative with consensus. When we adopted the report, no one voted against the report. That is to say, we all voted in favour of the Commission at that time, but it is true that Comrade Kremjar abstained and had already announced a separate opinion. I myself did not see what this separate opinion would actually be, because the National Assembly can only accept or reject a report adopted by the Commission by the majority. And I would also appeal and ask my fellow Member Kremjar that without any great harm to this report, which is before us, who in no way prejudges anything, actually withdraws. If it were not for this separate opinion, I think that today, too, there would be no very gallant debate here in Parliament and it was totally unnecessary. The work of the Commission shall be concluded simply because the mandate of this national assembly is concluded. And the Commission was also unable to identify what it was set up for before the court, which is currently carrying out certain investigative actions and which has potential perpetrators in custody, concluded this procedure in Murska Sobota. If the decision in court is as we expect it to be, then it will be possible in the next term or the court will only do so to achieve what was the commission's task. So that I would not in such a way trouble the work of the Commission, as my colleague Anderlich did, because it was probably too much expected in some way and it was somehow too high-profile. But it is true, and that is what many MEPs said in their performances and positively assessed the work of this commission, if it were not, probably today would not be before a court of law. In this case, they are, and this is, in fact, a great success and shows that state institutions have done at least what is expected of them at this stage. As far as a separate opinion is concerned. See, once again, nowhere in this report, which the Commission has put to the debate of the National Assembly, is it written that the Commission has seen any political background. We wrote in the report that we didn't, but we didn't rule out the possibility. And I think that this is also some kind of protection for the work of the Commission, because it can later be shown that, in this case, there was some political background. Secondly or third, on the other hand, where Article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is concerned - I do not know if this separate opinion is necessary - in order to accede to the amendment of Article 14. As a member of the Commission, I say once again that I am not a lawyer, but I say that Article 14 does not have to be amended, because Article 14 clearly states that every commission of inquiry set up by the National Assembly has to have everything it needs in its work. So neither the police nor the prosecution have the discretion to judge what they will hand over to the commission and what they will not do. This applies practically to all the Commissions of Inquiry established in this National Assembly. So I hope you will reconsider, Mr. Kremjar. Also this last, third decision, which speaks of the fact that this new assembly of parliament should recommend that work in this area continue, I do not think this is necessary either, since the national assembly, whatever its composition, will then make the right decision whether or not to continue this work. However, if something like this has to be accepted, of course it does not have to be an integral part of a separate opinion, but it can be a purely additional decision, as a recommendation. And in the New Slovenia Group, we are also prepared to participate in such an additional decision if you think it is necessary. Otherwise, we do not intend to support this separate opinion because it is not in any way different in fact, in no way prejudices the report that we have before us and on which we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please. Then Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will support the second amendment, not the third one, because it has been said and the actual work of the commission of inquiry is now ending with the adoption or non-acceptance of the report. But that's what I was gonna say. Despite the fact that the work of the Commission has always taken place on the basis of possible or actual politicization and possible or actual interference with the work of the police and investigative authorities, however, in my opinion, this work has not been in vain. Everyone, except those we know all the things they know, could learn something from this painful story. Above all, it seems to me that it was important to make it clear to those who tried to silence the public word, and especially with violence, to silence journalism, they had to be given a clear signal that they could count on the single reaction of all democratic institutions in this country. However, I see in this the importance of setting up and working this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u200	Mr Potts, I'm afraid your Group of Members is out of time. Anyone else would like a word or we'll do it. Most of the parliamentary groups have run out of time, but there is still some time until the end of this point. If anyone would like another word from all of you in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure? I'm asking if I can write you down, then we can split this time. We'll only talk about the amendments. So, this is the time I'm sharing in the debate about [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We have already concluded the general debate. Juban, Kremjar, Jerovšek. Anyone else? Then there will be no more opportunity for discussion. Juice. Is Mr. Potch? You wanted a word? Now I'm opening if you want a word in this other part? Yes, you do. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar has already told me that the third decision will be withdrawn and there is no need for my discussion in this part, because I think this is worthwhile. I would like to say, however, that I would very much like to take a decision under number two. Not to see if the commission was doing well or not. I've given my opinion on this. I said that this work was useful and said that, at the same time, it was a big question, as far as she was faced with the problem of evaluating the work of institutions, which is not necessarily her job, that she could not, until it was finished, do something else. Just, you know, in the work where Mr Kremjar thinks things are unclear, and dear colleagues, let us be correct and acknowledge that they are really unclear. I'm reading the conclusions of the investigation. These are the findings, not the conclusions, under two. At this stage of the investigation it is not possible to confirm the suspicion of involvement of public function holders and cannot be excluded. Finally, it is likely that direct policy was not involved. If public function operators are involved in the story, they can only be mediated after the attack. Well, am I reading the text? I mean, it's not written, but I can read it, you know, I almost wouldn't. That's not a finding.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Five minutes. Mr. Potsch, Mr. Juban, Jerovšek, Sok, Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u203	Madam President! I would like to correct one statement from my colleague Jerovšek, for he mentioned me in the debate on a separate opinion. Can I say it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u204	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek! What you have brought out of my debate is something impossible and incomprehensible. Okay. To say what you've said again goes beyond the limits of common sense. But I meant to say that I am surprised that Mr Petek has decided to give political support to people who have done something similar in the past. I don't know how to repeat myself right now. By no means would he be the one who was beaten or beaten by anyone else - that's what you said - and it doesn't come to my mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, regarding the order of things. You know exactly when we write the presidents, when we give them extra time, we usually go after this: the opposition, the coalition, the opposition. That's what happened. That's not new. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u207	I must say, I am surprised at some of the simple rules in changing the rules today. When you replicated, it didn't take time, and you didn't give words to others for the replica. But today I was, and I ordered here that I apply for the other two colleagues, and I was paying attention to that. So, good. Look, of course, I have to quote Mr. Juban on what he said, because I wrote it down, but now I've got a magnetogram. "The injured Miro Friday has been identified as the fighters of the same metal as he was beaten." That's what he said. In fact, this shows that you do not recognize the court's legal judgments, that you suspect innocence, that someone is not convicted in court, you do not at all admit it. And that, once again, is how Stalin's prosecutor Visinski did. Sorry, that's how it started. And from that quote of yours, it sounds ominous, because it's the same as someone who deserves it. This, unfortunately, will be understood by every normal person in Slovenia in this way. And, Mr Juban, I call on you to join Mr Petk, who joined us to run for office on the list with us - you considered me a fighter, Mr. Zampernik, and everyone else you thought was a fighter. Where can you tell that I'm a fighter? I've never had a fight, though. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Determined to beat the same metal; I can speak Slovenian and I have read it. This is a great deal of everything, and, Madam President, you should also react. So attacking some parties and some people is unacceptable. And I don't think anything is allowed in this country. You have this rule "I'etat c'est moi", we are a country, we can afford everything we conclude, is a law in this country but in this case I think we still have courts and that we have some legal norms and a legal culture. [[...]] This went far from the legal culture in general from some morale. Today, however, there was a double moral shaking on this side. We couldn't replicate, even though we were mentioned, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u209	Well, once again, we will not vote for this separate opinion. We do not need to say so many words in this House today. If it had not been for this separate opinion, I think this debate would have been much calmer too. Once again, when I supported the report as a member of the Commission, I supported it consciously, because today the Commission cannot confirm that it was the influence of officials at any stage of this procedure, but cannot exclude it. However, if we did it among the Slovenians on the basis of all the media reports, I am sure that the vast majority of Slovenians are convinced that there was a certain impact, that these matters were at least at the initial stage hindered, that there was no real investigation, because then, immediately in the beginning, it would have been the easiest one, and that in fact a political decision to set up a commission in the national assembly would have occurred, and unfortunately, today's mandate would have expired. I think that Mr Kremjar, as Vice-President, who has worked very well on this committee and may have been misreaded here today, can still take this away. I think that would be best. But now that I am thinking about it, I must say that I am very surprised to hear so many warnings today from the parties to the ruling coalition who warned against the opposition's words and warned about what would happen if the opposition had gained a little more power. These calls are actually unusual, but apparently they are a matter of some parliamentary struggle and probably also of upcoming elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The word is from a fellow Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, I have no great difficulty in withdrawing the third conclusion from the debate. I'll tell you why. The decision was, therefore, that this decision, which introduces a new call by the National Assembly, in order, according to the procedure envisaged, to re-designate the Commission of Inquiry, which would and so on. The purpose of this was - I have to explain why, and then I'll tell you why I'm withdrawing it. The purpose of this decision was very simple to find out today that the work had unfortunately not been completed, which was the purpose of this decision. And without intruding on the work of the future National Assembly, because I do not have this right either, and it does not say anywhere that this is a binding decision, to propose to future Members - if we are among them, we will probably do so - to the Members of the future call that the matter is not over, that they have to wake her up, as far as the investigative commission is concerned, to ask them to wake up. This was the purpose of this third decision, without anything illegal or a strange suggestion, nothing more than that. The desire to find out all together what we have learned is that the work is unfortunately not finished and that we, who have been working on this and myself personally, would also be very pleased to see that the future Members know it so quickly and quickly and in the process of collecting signatures, appointment and so on, are calling again the commission to do so. Since you seem to think of it as a majority, at least that's what you heard in these debates, that you don't like it or that somehow there's an intervention in the work of the future National Assembly, there's no reason for us to do that. I will make it very clear once again, and out loud, if I am alone among the Members of the future call, I will, as I have done before, but this time, of course, I will try to get colleagues and colleagues right away in order to set up this commission. But in case I don't, please, who you are today, if any of you are, and probably who will, we won't all go to try to continue this work because the matter doesn't go to sleep, so the matter doesn't go to waste. And the second thing that's going to happen is for sure, I'm sure, new circumstances. The trial will probably be concluded in Murski Sobota, the investigation is ongoing, new circumstances will arise and work will need to continue. In short, if it really bothers you to write as a national council, to have the future think about it, then of course I withdraw this. Of course, the basic idea remains why this was done. However, I think that it would be right, as regards the second proposal, to remain, because a separate opinion is, of course, an opinion which explains and complements, in some points, what we have found today also in the debate, complements this report and, of course, I think that without any difficulty, we can support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Voting on amendments, i.e. only amendments under order number 2. The proposer withdrew the amendment under one and under three from the review. On this amendment and on the proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry, the vote will take place today in the framework of the vote, 10 minutes after the last item of the agenda, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u213	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 26. PERFORMANCE OF THE FINAL REPORT OF THE INVESTIGATION COMMISSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE COMPETITION OF THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PERSONS AND PUBLISHERS OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES WITH REGARD TO THE BUYING AND SALE OF ELECTRIC ENERGY In addition to the final report, an investigative commission submitted to the assembly for consideration the determination of the liability of persons and public authorities with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the Slovenian electricity system. To complete the final report, a separate opinion was delivered by a member of the commission Jurij Malovrev and a joint separate opinion was delivered by members of the Commission Branko Janc, Leopold Grošelj and Valentin Pohorec. I give the text to the President of the Commission, Branko Kelemini, for a further explanation of the completion of the final report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! I'm sorry that I had a little "preplanted" because yesterday I was alone, it's not as a result of my investigative committee, I did a little damage when I stepped awkwardly. The threats coming will follow in the future, so maybe sometimes I'll have a hard time walking because of it. But let's just leave it. The Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination of the liability of the responsible persons and holders of public powers with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the Slovenian electricity economy, was introduced at the request of a third of Members in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. In such a case, the National Assembly should, of course, order a parliamentary inquiry and not vote on it. In the acts of regulation, the content of the application submitted by a third of Members and subject to parliamentary investigation may be extended or supplemented, but only if the applicant does not object. At its 16th session, on 31.3.2004, on the basis of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, our Commission of Inquiry adopted the final report, with 4 votes in favour and 0 votes against. The National Assembly considered this final report at its 44th extraordinary meeting on 7.5.2004 and instructed the Parliamentary Commission to complete and extend the report. By letter sent to the Head of the National Assembly, I explained, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, which requirements of the decision of the National Assembly will be taken into account by the Commission and are legal and which, due to illegality, will not be taken into account. Thus, at its 17th session, on the basis of Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, our Commission of Inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry, adopted the final report of the Commission of Inquiry by 3 votes in favour and 1 against. Let me begin by saying that, as in the first debate before a good month, two, when the final report was first discussed, I also expect today Members and Members of the National Assembly, especially coalition parties, government parties, to try with all means to pour manure on the President himself and on some other members of the Commission by discrediting the non-reality report, on the non-professional report, on the tendency report and so on. This is also indicated in their separate opinions. Let me immediately, at the outset, firmly reject all this populism that some people are trying to turn against the work of the Commission for reasons of, I don't know what political interests. I myself firmly believe and appreciate that the report is a good document, an honest document, an accurate document to take into account the factually credible documents, authentic documents and based only on these documents, on no other document, but it is true that even in its conclusions and findings it is a bit political, which is logical for every report on the parliamentary investigation in some part also because the National Assembly is a political body because the Commission of Inquiry is a political body. I contend, however, that it is also an economic and technical document and that it is possible to extract and understand exactly the truth of the events that took place during the period 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and during the period under investigation of the Commission of Inquiry. I assure you, I sincerely assure you that I have never lied in my life, and this time there is no lie in this report. It's true, it's the truth that I've seen in these documents, and let me say that I'm probably the only really only member of this National Assembly that I've studied thousands of pages of material. Let me say that no one - and this is truly sad, although in your separate opinion you condemn me that the report is based on untrue documents - none of the Members, members of the Commission, from government political parties from government political parties have ever once knocked on the door of the President or the professional services, where I would ask for any document or any other explanation concerning the work of the investigative commission. I was firmly convinced that at the meetings that we had something to do right, that you said so yourself several times, and that you would also request certain documents from the work at the meetings, if not already, I have repeatedly called you to see where the documents are available, at any time you can examine them, have a look at them, and today you can even be seen, you haven't had a chance to look into the documents, it's unrealistic, and I hope that you won't hope to do so or allow yourself to repeat it here for the speaker and to mutilate the work of the commission because of some of your political interests. Even as President of the Commission, I don't know why, in fact, defending someone if he accidentally made any mistakes, it just happens. Wrong decisions will also occur, including in politics, even in the economy, wherever it may be. It would be fair and fair for anyone who has done them to at least try to admit them in part, but to say, indeed, OK, they could do otherwise if they knew that things would develop in a way and so on or whatever and things would be completely different, that they would reject themselves completely, even with the documents of the proven conclusion, but I think that it is unfair, unfair, not only to documents, documents that exist, but also to members of the Commission, to the President and Parliament and to the Slovenian public as a whole. I also argue that I have also studied extensive documentation alongside the professional services, as I have already said, and have prepared a final report with the professional services on this basis. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry also adopted the supplementary report, with three votes in favour and one against. Today, I expect that the ruling majority, the ruling majority, will not accept any conclusions or conclusions. Unfortunately they did not, no one proposed different conclusions, not different conclusions, no one. Why, even with inactivity, incompetence is trying to discredit the work of my commission of inquiry, I think it is also necessary to ask why this is happening. I will try, given that the first part of the final report has already been discussed in the National Assembly, although there was little time - I will no longer go into that part in very detail, but will focus only on this supplement, the update of the report, namely the report of the National Court of Inquiry with the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the operation of the public company Elektro Slovenije d.o.o., Ljubljana in the years 1998-2001. Indeed, it is true that in the initial report, the final report, due to duplication of data, only because of this and no other matter, but due to duplication of data we have somehow not included in the report of the Court of Auditors’ Special Audit Report, because the Court’s audit report is just a summary of all these documents that we have already considered in all the other chapters of our report. However, since you insisted on using the incomplete report and on the contention of the report in this work, on our committee we then completed this inquiry report with the Court of Auditors' audit report and, of course, analysed it. I will now focus only on the findings and conclusions, which are also new or corrected, modified in the light of previous decisions, which have also been criticised, as well as the previous findings, and I will try to draw conclusions from these proposed conclusions and conclusions, in fact on the Commission's adopted - this is worth stressing, since the Commission has adopted conclusions, the Commission has adopted conclusions if they are not adopted by the National Assembly, but there is another issue. On the basis of the findings and conclusions, I will also try to comment on the update of the report and, if necessary, also draw attention to the rest of the report already presented in the National Assembly. Under the first point of the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry noted that, with the analysis of the events, it was indisputably concluded that due to the inefficient operation in the Slovenian electricity system of years from summer 1998 to 30.6.2001 - this is the period under investigation, the closure of the Krka Hrvatska nuclear power plant - in Slovenia was caused by a major economic damage of at least 16 billion 298 million and several other Slovenian tolars. Let me explain how, and in what way, and on what basis, the Commission came to this number, to this damage of over 16 billion. In fact, the Court of Auditors, to which you yourself or Members of the National Assembly yourself requested that the Commission include it in its report, in no doubt found that in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 it was exported abroad over 6 billion kilowatt hours of electricity. If you want individual data: in 1998 - 1 billion 319 million kilowatt hours of electricity, in 1999 - 1 billion 800 thousand 4 million kilowatt hours of electricity, in 2000 - 1 billion 568 million and a few collating hours of electricity and in 2001, for the first half of course - 696 million and a few thousand kilowatt hours of electricity. All together, as I said, over 6 billion kilowatt hours of electricity were exported during this period, total electricity. But the fact is that this electricity was too much in Slovenia after the decommissioning of the part of the nuclear power plant, which was intended for Croatian and was diverted to the Slovenian electricity system, and this energy was obviously too cheap in Slovenia and that this energy was sold extremely cheap. This is because, due to the disputes that have arisen at the Krška nuclear power plant due to the apparent failure to pay electricity by Croatia - and electricity, Croatia has not paid, especially personally, on the basis of documents, records that are available and can be read by all, the records of the business committee of the Krško nuclear power plant, where it is clear what policy was led by the board of directors, the Slovenian part of the board of directors at the Krško nuclear power plant and its president, Mr Ivo Banić and the director of Elesa. An extremely sharp policy, non-consistency policy and all the efforts made by Prime Minister Drnovšek, all the efforts made by Minister Dragonja through the various negotiations that took place during 1996, 1997, 1998, and all the agreements that were concluded there, so the Slovenian side of the management committee of the Slovenian side did not wish to implement. They argued on various documents, if it was an informal agreement; if they had to wait again for a new agreement and so on. However, it was most complicated when the Slovenian part of the management body refused to accept the proposal or refused the appointment of the deputy director of the Krško nuclear power plant, with the excuse that it did not meet the educational conditions. In fact, it had already happened earlier that a temporary management body with Mr Ivo Banič had taken the lead in adopting the decision to hire this Mr Hep's representative as Deputy Director, and even the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Slovenia had agreed to this job. Then, at the next meeting, they found that they did not meet the conditions for education in nuclear technology and simply did not want to work and they rejected this proposal. The Croats insisted on this proposal; we did not want to accept this proposal anymore. However, the Governing Body and the Ministry agreed. You can imagine this irony, the mistakes that were then paid by Croats getting angry and refusing to pay for electricity. And they started stalling. Of course, costs were raised, and then a whole series of other outstanding issues - investment in updates and so on, the price of decommissioning, these things are also known from the Interstate Treaty itself, and we discussed these things later. These things have been a little better solved, although they are not yet final. But these were the main reasons for the failure to pay for electricity. And then, instead of the Slovenian owner and the state and Eles as some kind of seller and buyer of this electricity and the Krška nuclear power plant and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia together looking for some solutions to bridge some of the financial illiquidity of this facility, it is argued that due to financial illiquidity, nuclear security - yes, it could have been, I can believe that it was, but instruments could have been found, those responsible for how to bridge these liquidity problems. However, they did not decide on any instrument for resolving the liquidity issues of the nuclear power plant, but decided to shut down, although they knew that the government had clearly dealt with the issue of the interstate treaty, the interstate agreement two months before the shutdown, and it was clear there that the closure would only cause problems and loss and that the disconnect did not make sense. Without the government's decision, without the decisions of the National Assembly, anyone else, such an important facility and international relations have thus deteriorated between the two neighbouring countries due to the interruption, unilateral interruptions in the supply of electricity to Croatia. This is an indisputable conclusion, and no one else can interpret it and challenge it. Then, of course, with these excess energy, you didn't know where. Suddenly a huge surplus of electricity appeared in the Slovenian electricity system. The Court of Auditors found - see the report in detail - because it was also not possible to export all energy immediately after the shut-off, that production had to be reduced in some energy facilities. That's what happened at the thermal power plant. That's what the Court of Auditors says, and that's a lot of damage. This is already a major damage that has not been taken into account in this report, neither in the Court of Auditors' report nor in our report. Thermal power plant, if not fully operational, is known to increase the price of electricity per unit of product. They must reverse with maximum force, like all energy facilities, then the price per unit product falls. For we know that fixed costs are such, the price of fuel is so much lower. And in 1998, 1 billion 319 million kilowatt hours of electricity were sold abroad at an average price, calculated by the Court of Auditors. Now I took the data calculated by the Court of Auditors as a calculation of the damage caused - 2.82 tolars was the average price. This is shown in the table. Am I lying, or is he lying to the Court of Auditors? I hope not. I hope you will acknowledge this price, which has also been recorded by the Court of Auditors. Then in 1999, as I said, a billion 804 million, at a cost of 2.52. The average price of exported electricity in 2000 was 568 million, at 3.96 million, and in 2001 - 696 million kilowatt hours of electricity and some, at 4.46. Now comes the second question: What should we take to judge what price should we achieve in the electricity market? Now some are reading - of course those who do not like the fact that the Commission of Inquiry has been created and that it has investigated the causes of the economic damage caused, that we should take any judgment that none is correct. Okay. Rather, they say that electricity or kilowatt-hour does not know the name of production. That's what I'm talking about! I'm guessing we're not such fools that we don't know that once there's electricity on the grid, no one knows what production facility it came from. Do they think we're such donkeys? I don't think they should. This is what every ordinary citizen knows, which is a little technicalally subdued, that electricity doesn't have a name after a kilohour. So, what court should I take? However, the main reason is that electricity would be paid by the Croatian buyer if we did not interrupt the supply to Croatia. So we can take the price or we have to take the price paid by Croatia for this electricity or the price that should cover at least the full production price of the Krško nuclear power plant. And we have taken to justice this price, on the basis of the economic plan of the NEK, and on this basis we have calculated for each year how much price differences have arisen and what a loss this has created. We calculated that there were 15 billion 629 million tolar losses. In addition, the Court of Auditors - again I have not invented this information and I hope that you will not deny it, honourable Members and Members - that I have lied. These are the records of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors found, I only prescribed that 669 million net losses were caused on transit for various reasons. So this is how we calculated that the total damage caused is 16 billion 298 million tolars. But in all of this, it is important that we - or even in view of the criticism that some express with regard to the courts, which is supposed to be acceptable to calculate the damage caused or the possibilities of any comparison, then I would assess if we say that there is complete electricity in the system, whatever it is, the quantity in the system, given that we have different production facilities, where the price is extremely different - the nuclear power plant is at the cost of production, I think the second most expensive; first is hydropower, Drava power plants, and then it is already a nuclear power plant. Then we have objects where electricity is significantly more expensive - TET 3 also 18, 20 tolars per kilohour. So, I agree that we can take to court, if you like, the average price of electricity in the Slovenian electricity system. Let's take this case for economic damage, and we'll see what the difference is. The average price of electricity in the Slovenian electricity system for that period backwards, if calculated, was around 9, 10 tolars per kilohour. But do we take that court that is significantly higher than what we took, the production, full price at the Krško nuclear power plant? What the Court of Auditors has taken away, I strongly object to this because it has taken over the Preservation Exchange. We cannot take the price that was there on the daily market as a result of the calculation of the performance or failure of the operation of a production facility, because if that were the case - we also wrote it in our report - then no one in Europe would buy electricity where it is actually bought, but would buy it on the stock market. And then the Italian buyer would not buy electricity at the Austrian Verbund or today at Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant for 80 tolars per kilowatt-hour, but would buy four, five tolars at the Preservative Stock Exchange, then three and a half or four and a half. The Leipzig Stock Court is not a suitable basis for calculating the performance of an undertaking. That was my comment, I took this court, we could take any other court. Of course, the professional public, perhaps someone else, should assess whether our judgment was correct or not. However, if no economic damage had been caused, it could not be said. Because Croatia would pay for electricity - it should pay anyway. Whether she paid or not at the time, she should have paid the price agreed upon by the conclusions of the provisional business committee if you wanted. First. This price, however, was about four and a half in 1998, a little more, then more each year. Now we have actually received for this electricity at least two tolars to tritolars less than Croatia would have paid. So wherever we put any court anywhere, we can figure out that we've been losing on this segment, definitely. And then speak in public and everywhere that by breaking the electricity to Croatia, the financial situation of the nuclear power plant improved. Yeah, of course it got better because we got two tolars paid, but nothing before. But Croatia should pay for it, it should! With international banners or through a lawsuit in an international court. At the final stage, we should pay along with interest. But of course we could accept another system, simply with our own resources, with credits, I don't know with what, state guarantees and so on and ensure the liquidity of the Krka nuclear power plant at the highest level, even if we wanted to, we could adopt a law. And just slowly write off. If Croatia did not want to pay for electricity, they would have written off its contribution to the nuclear power plant and today the power plant would have been ours a long time ago. In short, there were many options, not one of these solutions, not one proposal, not one proposal, not one proposal proposed to the government, and nowhere else has it been traced from all the documents we have at our disposal, we have twice as many documents in the office, it is not clear that anyone would have proposed any other solution. No! No! Just a break! That's what we know where it got us. In short, the calculated damage found is as stated. The second conclusion or finding of the Commission of Inquiry is as follows. The Investigative Commission notes that the economic damage caused by the institutions of public functions and others responsible in companies, namely, Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek in 1998 and until the summer of 2000, is responsible. I hope that you know the government law, that you know the constitution, that you also know the rest of the legislation, and that you also know from the articles who is responsible for the functioning of the government as a whole. The government, as the manager of state assets during the period of rule, is also responsible for its successful functioning and its successful operation and thus its President. I believe that the Prime Minister was not informed precisely, he was not aware of all the similarities, he was confused. It is only in that report, which was submitted once before or after, that I do not remember exactly now, but in 1998, when it was before the government, it was written, in a report by the Business Committee or the Ministry of Economy, when the report was given to the Government, that the Management Committee and the Ministry of Economy rejected the proposal - I think that Mr Vrankič or someone else for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Krško nuclear power plant - I don't know exactly, I don't remember now, I don't think so - because he doesn't have the right education; but they didn't mention to the President of the State that they actually made mistakes that they've already confirmed this candidacy in all institutions then and they rejected it. He was informed unilaterally! In some other areas, the Prime Minister has also been informed unilaterally, although he has made great efforts to ensure that these bilateral relations regarding the Krška nuclear power plant are successfully resolved with the heads of government. Croatia and the relevant ministers have discussed this a lot, and the governing body has destroyed all these decisions and arrangements, so to speak. Somewhere back there were some interests, some special interests, why it had to happen. Surely it is clear what their interests were, and this was all planned and sure to move forward. So, the responsibility of the Prime Minister from this follows, the government law is clear and here, what is the amount of this responsibility, but it certainly does. Then the Vice-President of the Government must also take responsibility in 2000, then in the end, Mag. Anton Rop, who signed under a regulation prohibiting Eles from trading in electricity. I think that the Vice-President of the Government, if he signs a document with which he is the only entity in the country capable of trading electricity, prohibits this, but there is no other entity that can market electricity and sell successfully that this is a serious mistake. And the Vice-President of the Government should know what kind of document he is signing and certainly here his responsibility is undisputed. This has also resulted in certain economic damage, which then took place in the next period following the signature of this Regulation. The Minister of Economy was responsible, and he was Minister from 1998 until 30.4.1999. I have already said that Mr Dragonja has decided to make a decision without the Government's decision to suspend the supply of electricity to Croatia. And even later, neither in the Ministry of Economy – we received any document, nor in the government discussed this interruption in the supply of electricity to Croatia, nor did they discuss how, in any way, to distribute excess electricity. Can you imagine? It's true that Eles was responsible for all of this. Eles was ordered to sell all these excess electricity. However, he was not ordered, of course, how, with what strategy and so on, and how long can he sell it. However, this data was neither by Mr Draganje nor by the Government as a whole. More! Mr Dragonja himself said at the testimony that he had dealt with the nuclear power plant after the decommissioning, much earlier with various interstate agreements, including through the Secretary of State and so on, and that they were already dealing with many issues of the Krška nuclear power plant before the decommissioning. After the disconnect, however, huge or even - if I am not mistaken, look at the magnetogram - I think he said that he had been dealing with the Krška nuclear power plant for about a third of his working time. Now, amazingly, look here, sir, when I was looking for documentation - I found no document of this partism of his! One-third of the working time, almost a year's time, Mr Minister has devoted to this issue and there is not a single piece of paper left behind. One document to show what really happened, what they were doing, what they were making. That's what they say, that's what they've been talking about, just from eye to eye, under the table or whatever -- I don't know. Where were they talking? There is no document, I guarantee you with all my awareness that we have not received any document from the government, as we have requested! I went to the government's archives myself to look for documents, to look through all the government records, to see if there were any microfilms that might be hidden from the Commission, to look for something else, but very little. Very little. So I wonder what Mr. Minister was doing, but I think Mr. Minister knew what was going on. He knew there were some strange, serious business back here, and I think that's why Minister Dragonja resigned. I'm pretty sure that's why. But that doesn't rule out his guilt. Undoubtedly, the damage caused by the economic damage generated in this regard arose daily because electricity was sold far below the price. Minister of Economy from 1.4.2000 to 7.6.2000, Dr. Thea Petrin is responsible because she was a minister during that period and did not take all the steps; she may not have been properly informed either. However, according to the Government Act and other laws that speak of the internal organisation of ministries, she is certainly, as the head, as the Minister of Economy, responsible for continuing to cause economic damage during this period. Although it may be a mistake in February 2000 - here that 1.4.2000 occurred because I know from a document that it had already ordered Eles to start selling electricity under long-term contracts in February 2000. But no one responded to her request, no one. And she should have acted decisively at that time. She ordered a written document to Eles that she should start selling electricity under long-term contracts, but it didn't move much. So she's responsible. [[Warning time for the end.]] [[How's it going? Time's up?]] Then Dr Robert Golob, as State Secretary, as well as Ivo Banić, as well as Mr Vekoslav Korošec and also Director of NEK, are responsible. But these people were best informed, the most direct access they had to actual, direct data. They knew exactly what was going on, they knew all the information, from the European market to neighbouring countries, they had all the data at their disposal, but despite all the knowledge and all the skills they had, they simply did not act. I don't know. I don't know about this watch. Don't I have 40 minutes? [[...]] It's been 40 minutes now? Okay, well, I'll pick it up later. Thank you so much for your kindness.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, colleague Bogomir Vnučec on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. [[He's not here.]] Colleague Majda Zupan on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In May, the National Assembly rejected a report by the parliamentary investigative commission, which for almost three years dealt with the responsibility of holders of public authority for alleged economic damage to electricity trade following the cessation of supply from the Croatian nuclear power plant. In conclusion, the parliamentary majority found that the Commission of Inquiry had not fully addressed the entire operation of Slovenia’s electricity system in the period from mid-1998 to mid-2000, that it had misinterpreted the regulation on economic public services of transmission concerning the possibility of selling electricity surpluses and that, in calculating the possible damage caused by trade, it had used completely incorrect data and assumptions that only those which were consistent with the views of the President and the members of the Commission who had prepared and adopted the proposal for a final report had been used unilaterally by the institution of the witness to the work and findings of the Commission to evaluate the evidence. Therefore, the National Assembly proposed to the Commission that, on the basis of the comments made in the debate and the written objections raised by the witnesses heard, it should correct its report and, in particular, include time until the end of 2001 in the report, showing the results on the way in which transactions were concluded through intermediaries and the responsibility of the current officials of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the leadership of Eles. Once again, it must be said that a parliamentary inquiry into the purchase and sale of electricity was initiated at the request of a third of Members. In such a case, the National Assembly must order a parliamentary inquiry and not vote on it. When establishing an act of order, it shall summarise in full the content of the application submitted by a third of the Members. The subject matter of a parliamentary inquiry may be extended or supplemented, but only if the applicant does not object. Therefore, the content of the requirement, which framed the work of the parliamentary inquiry, should not change without the consent of the applicant. In this case, however, the National Assembly gave a decision on what the parliamentary commission should investigate. However, the fact is that the applicants for the parliamentary inquiry request object to the extension of the subject matter of the investigation. Thus, in his protest immediately after the adoption of the decision in the National Assembly, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Kelemina, wrote to the President of the National Assembly and attached the signatures of the Members who signed the request for parliamentary inquiry. It should also be added that, if individual members of the Parliamentary Commission disagree with the findings, they have the opportunity to provide separate opinions, which are also mentioned in the report. It is interesting, however, that there was no separate opinion by the end of the parliamentary inquiry, although it was clear that some members of the Commission did not agree with the report. In the light of these findings, the Commission of Inquiry therefore adopted, at its June meeting, the update of the final report, in which it included the audit report of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of the comments and the debate, it has been widely reported to the Commission that it did not take account of the Court of Auditors' report as well. The Court of Auditors’ report summarises some of Eles’ analyses and some comparisons have been made, including the fact that the transit routes across Slovenia to the Austrian Verbund were paid to the price to be charged and that Eles was the most inefficient in buying and selling electricity at Entrad. Moreover, Entrade, who was the main actor in the purchase and sale of electricity surpluses, worked to the detriment of Eles. The Commission’s report also sets out under point 10 the calculation of the actual economic injury caused by taking into account the difference between the sales price achieved and the full price of electricity at the Krško nuclear power plant. The total damage resulting from this calculation is even higher than originally calculated and more than 16 billion. The findings resulting from the update of the final report and the conclusions are known and the Commission does not withdraw from them. The report is based on credible documents and in fact reflects the situation that the Commission has investigated under the mandate. However, one of the members of the Commission also issued a separate opinion after the meeting of the Commission on the final report, which states that the final findings of the Commission cannot be accepted because all the findings of the Commission - in his view - are based on misrepresentation or interpretation of the facts that the Commission cannot determine the responsibilities of directors of public undertakings because they are not officials and that the findings of the Commission are unprofessional and that no harm has been caused. So says one of the members of the Commission. However, a joint separate opinion is intended to be given by three other members of the Commission, but I think this has happened today. With regard to the determination of the liability of professionals and holders of public powers in the purchase, sale and transit of electricity, it should be pointed out that, notwithstanding now, the alleged injury caused by the system of Slovenian electricity, that it also suffered financial reputation and the result, as the damage was undeniably caused. In addition to the legal apparatus, it is also a matter of existing ethical values and, as a result, of difficult obligations and duties, whether someone is held accountable and even feels professionally guilty in relation to all the powers, rights and benefits that have been derived from the system. Regardless of the fact that experts should bear higher liability criteria, it is also necessary to ask whether the system has deliberately permitted fraud or whether the prosecution and the judiciary are not responsible. It was and is still in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has committed itself to economic and rational treatment of its own resources. During the appointed period investigated by the parliamentary commission, electricity sales are expected to be overpriced. Despite the generally accepted thesis that total and total damage is likely to never be proven, but the existing documents already bear sufficient eloquent testimony to high numbers. Of course, we can ask ourselves whether, for the chosen individuals or for the groups stopping the supply of electricity to HEP from NEK, it was pointless and reckless. Despite the increased risk of Brestanica cancelling and there would be no appropriate rapid possibility of replacing this energy with a possible nuclear reactor cooling. The answer, however, is more than on the palm of your hand, especially when the transit routes were placed below the price or even free of charge. Regardless of the facts that have been carried out, the question is also raised today whether these same fertilised assets do not come back in the form of a future lease of NEK, the future construction of wind power plants in Vremščica, Volov hill and other places, the construction of the southern power grid from Krske, future purchases of shares in Eles and Ljubljana's Energetics and so on. Sooner or later, all the answers will bring us time. It is time, however, for the state or government to think carefully, conscientiously, and professionally of the state resources entrusted to them by the citizens in the elections. In our parliamentary group, New Slovenia, we will support the investigative commission's report with conclusions and conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you, colleague Maja Zupan. A colleague of Leopold Grošelj has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The President has already mentioned that I will first present the opinion of the UK Group of Social Democrats on the completion of the final report, and in the second part I will also present my views on the developments that took place from 2001 to 2004. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, let me begin by stressing that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will not support the final report of the Commission of Inquiry, as the Commission's findings are based on misrepresentation of the facts or on misrepresentation of the facts, so the whole report is unworthy, unilateral and also politically tendentious. At the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, on 6 May 2004, which addressed the report, its findings and, on this basis, its conclusions with the proposed measures against the so-called causes of harm, we made clear in the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats why we will not support this. We have given a number of facts as to what the report holds and what is not true on the basis of the facts found. We also stressed that it is incomprehensible and totally unacceptable because the parliamentary commission did not take account of the Court's audit report on the business of Eles when drawing up the report. In it, the Court of Auditors finds nothing like this because it would indicate reckless business and damage. Thus, the Commission of Inquiry did not take into account the findings of the expert body which is competent and competent to assess the prudentity and correctness of the conduct of the auditor, but accepted its conclusions on the basis of incorrect assumptions and lazi opinions. The report found that the economic damage domain of the decommissioning of energy to the Republic of Croatia from the Krško nuclear power plant and, in particular, the undervalued sale of electricity surpluses on the market, amounting to 14 billion tolars, is not proven by any expert calculation and objective data. The calculation was made by the Commission itself following a simplified procedure, as indicated in the report itself. The report states that the Slovenian ruling set-up and management of Eles and NEK for the decommissioning measure were not prepared, that there were no planning documents for Eles' operation, that Eles did not achieve any positive results by selling electricity after the shut-off, in the interest of Croatia alone, on a one-sided basis, because they did not take into account the various estimates, financial calculations and evidence cited by witnesses at the hearings of the Commission. That the Commission thus misrepresents its views and proposes conclusions and measures against individuals from Eles and the nuclear Krka and the government, except for the time of the Bajuk government, and that all of this shows that the report adopted by the opposition Members themselves wishes to accommodate their options and wishes for the total criticism of the government. Today, too, it was said that there was "a lot of manure." That's right. A lot of manure has been poured on the government and, of course, on all coalition parties lately. The National Assembly did not adopt the report and the proposed conclusions. We have also voted against all Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats. However, it adopted the conclusion that it fully rejected the findings and assessments contained in the report and, at the same time, invited the Commission to amend its report on the basis of the comments made in the debate and on the basis of documents not taken into account by the Commission, to complete it and objectively. According to an assessment by the United Nations Group of the Social Democrats, the Commission has only partially taken those views into account. Otherwise, it has prepared a supplement to the final report, which has not been amended in substance and continues to insist on fully unilateral assessments, findings and conclusions. As in the course of the debate at the National Assembly, this supplementary report only refers to higher economic damage caused by Eles’ poor business in 1998-2001, which is now expected to amount to more than 16 billion sitt. The alleged damage does not exist and it makes no sense because the electricity system would not survive such damage. Such losses cannot be hidden in the reports of the operation of the nuclear Krška and Elektro Slovenije. However, the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is only attached to this report and nothing is taken into account. I would like to point out that the calculation of the damage is extremely inexplicable. It takes into account the 2001 price rather than the actual prices at the time of the sale of this electricity in 1998 and 1999. The difference between the own selling price of the Krška nuclear power plant and the export price achieved is also calculated. This calculation does not have any actual basis either, since it did not export energy from the nuclear Krka, but energy from the system. Most of the electricity from the Krška nuclear power plant would be used in Slovenia. Systemic surpluses were therefore exported, which were mainly generated at night. The so-called supplementary report was again supported by only three opposition members at the five-member meeting. At the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the United Nations Group of the United Nations Social Democrats pointed out that several contentious claims were addressed in the attached report of the Commission of Inquiry. We have only mentioned some which have not been taken into account by the Commission of Inquiry, and we refer them again. Firstly, it is not true that there were no planning documents for Eles’ electricity business, since the sixth-page audit report notes that the basis for Eles' operations in the work relating to the acquisition of power and electricity in the transmission network in 1998-2000 laid down planning and legal and other frameworks. Secondly, it is not true, as the report on page 19 states, that Master Korošec gave transport routes to the Austrians before 24.9.2000. The contract with Verbund was concluded on 11.11.1999. Reality is a claim that also arises from the Court of Auditors’ audit report on page 28. It is not true that Eles mainly traded with Switzerland, namely Entrade, since the audit report shows - on page 15, Table 11 - that Eles sold electricity to 18 foreign customers during this period. Fourthly, it is not true that Eles under the leadership of the Master of Korosca did not achieve favourable business results, nor did he, when Dr. Banič was Director. Table 1 on the fifth page of the audit report shows a different assessment. Nor is it true what is found in the report in relation to the calculation of the injury caused. The calculation was made by the Commission itself, following a simplified procedure. The Commission of Inquiry calculated the alleged injury by finding that between 1998 and 2000 there were 4,000 kilowatt hours of surpluses sold after 2.62 SIT in the Slovenian electricity system. It is incomprehensible that the fictitious data have been used as the actual data are shown in the Court’s audit report, Table No. Three to seven. The calculation of the damage caused is therefore based on the invented quantities of gigawatt hours in 1998 to 2000, which were not sold favourably abroad at the price of SIT 5.3 but at the price of 2.62. The fact is that, at that time, Eles bought out of the nuclear Krška in accordance with the electricity balance, the total amount of electricity produced at a price that was also determined by the assessed electricity balance. Thus, the Krško nuclear power plant could not produce any additional quantities that were so-called superheated in the system. It is true, however, that the Court of Auditors’ audit report in its final opinion notes the following: that the volume of operations after the acquisition of power, imports and exports of electricity, electricity trade and transport routes was in order; that Eles operated in the years 1998 to 2001 to the extent defined in point 1 of this Article, the first indent, with foreign trade in accordance with the rules; that, according to the Court of Auditors, Eles had been operating with foreign interest in 1998 to 2001, except in cases where it had miscalculated the compensation for the transactions of Hef and in the calculation of Verbund's transit, because it did not fully respect the prices and deadlines. We are convinced that the Commission of Inquiry, in accordance with the law and also the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, should complete the investigation procedure, establish credible investigative actions and establish a list of witnesses to be heard by the Commission of Inquiry. In short, to agree on the tasks that would be urgently needed for further work. The President of the Commission acted the other way around: he convened the 17th session of the Commission, at which the Commission was to hear the Magi's witness. On a proposal from a third of the members of the Commission, of course only from opposition parties, which was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. As a result, a member of the Commission, Mr Branko Janc, raised a written objection to the conduct of the President of the Commission at the 17th meeting of the Commission and proposed that, before the Commission began its hearing with the first witness, the Commission should take the necessary action in accordance with the decision of the national assembly to complete the investigation procedure. The Commission's call was then revoked. The magnetogram of the first continuation of the 17th meeting of the Commission of Inquiry of 2 June 2004, on page 20, shows that the proposal of a member of the Commission, Mr Yuri Malovra, to be heard again in order to determine the actual situation, has not been accepted. Two members voted in favour of the proposal, three against it. At the same meeting, the President of the Commission, Mr Kelemina, indicated that the members of the Commission could, if they wished, draw up a separate opinion within fourteen days and that the Commission would be reconvened after receiving the material. On the basis of the above, Mr Jurij Malovre presented a separate opinion on the final report within the proposed time limit. In view of the fact that the President of the Commission did not wish to refer to a separate opinion, the three members of that Commission prepared a separate opinion on the final report. The members of the Commission shall base their rejection position on the final report on the following points of view to the conclusions and proposals of the final report [[Quote]] : "First time. The first finding of the Commission of Inquiry is based on incorrect assumptions and without taking into account the actual situation in relations between the two investors in the NEK and without taking into account the economic situation of the company. Not only was the claim that major economic damage was caused to the Slovenian electricity industry, but the fact that the Commission of Inquiry did not take into account the most visible positive effects of the temporary interruption of electricity supply to Croatia shows a desire for unjustified distortion of government and public power holders. Another time. The second finding, without any facts, assigns responsibility to individual holders of public authority for alleged economic damage with an obvious desire to be politically and professionally discredited. Unacceptable and scandalous is the qualification of our country as non-democratic. On the contrary, it is the work of supervisory institutions that can also prevent public lynching of policies without adequate evidence in this case. Third time. The third findings of the Commission of Inquiry can be confirmed, but by commenting that, contrary to the Commission of Inquiry, we find that the management of public undertakings and companies is not within the power of the Government but of the authorities in accordance with the law. Claims and estimates do not take into account the actual situation in NEK management and business relations. Fourth time. We challenge the fifth finding, which is inaccurate and misleading. We base the opposing position on the written evidence of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not confirm these findings in their report, and on the written objections transmitted to the Commission of Inquiry by Dr. Ivo Banić and Mag. Vekoslav Korošec. Dr. Ivo Banic and Mag. As witnesses and with their objections to the final report of the Commission of Inquiry, Vekoslav Korošec fully rejected the claims of 6, 7, 8 and 10. The signatories to a separate opinion, taking into account all the facts, cannot agree to simplify professional tasks simply on simple farming logic. Fifth. The proposed conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry for the adoption of the National Assembly are opposed to those which lead to political lynching on the basis of incorrect indications and non-professional calculations. We are confident, however, that the institutions responsible for supervision will take appropriate action in the event of irregularities found." In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we accept a separate opinion from the three members of the Commission on the final report of the Commission of Inquiry as a whole. We also accept the assessment that the final report of the Commission of Inquiry is neither based on the findings of the hearing of witnesses nor on the relevant documents made available to members of the Commission of Inquiry, nor on the expert findings and analyses. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the report tends to discredit certain public function holders without adequate arguments. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we would like to point out that the separate opinion of Mr Yuri Malovre, on the final report of the Commission of Inquiry, contains almost identical assessments of the inadmissibility of the report which we have already submitted in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats at its 44th extraordinary meeting, and that is why we fully accept Mr Malovre's separate opinion on the final report. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, due to the above-mentioned facts of the completed final report and the proposed conclusions of the Commission under examination to determine the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers regarding the purchase and sale of electricity, we will not accept or vote in favour of the alleged damage caused by the system of Slovenian electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u219	Thanks, buddy Groschel. The word should now have a colleague, Bogdan Barovic, who has given up. Branko Kelemina has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable all together. I'm sorry, I'm going to have a bit of a problem with my presentation by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, because no one has written a report to me and I'm going to be a little difficult to comment on, but you're going to have a little patience, I'm sorry. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group is the final report and will also give a thorough consideration to the report and the report in its full support.We also fully agree with all the conclusions and also with the proposals for conclusions, and we note that there would probably continue to be serious irregularities in the Slovenian electricity system, significantly greater than in 2001 and 2000, if not for a short period of time in the summer of 2000, but for at least a few months of change of power, on the basis of which the opposition was also able to see the Slovenian electricity system and on the basis of which we have also obtained important data on what is actually happening in the Slovenian electricity system. The Slovenian electrical system is one of the solid forts of the continuity of the previous system, on which it was possible because it was a closed system, there was a lot going on in the system itself. However, the final price has always been paid by the population with the price of electricity or, of course, by the electricity industry, which has then also been reflected in the price of its products and the competitiveness of exports and so on and the prices paid by our customers, our citizens. What happened at the time of the change of power in 2000? At that time, there were only a few people who could no longer tolerate what was happening in the Slovenian electricity system and who were free of charge or even on official duty to inform the then Minister of Economy, Dr. Zabožno, that certain errors, certain irregularities, and that a different policy, some new measures were needed and that some new measures were also needed in the Slovenian electricity industry to be market-oriented. For such surpluses of energy that Slovenia had, not to sell or market this electricity, as it is called, was a real madness. Slovenia could, on the basis of the electricity surpluses it had at its disposal, be able to earn a great deal of money from a fair economic policy that it should have put before the decommissioning of Croatia's nuclear power plant. That's not how these fabulous money was. That it was possible to earn fabulous money, it turned out when Mr Vitoslav Türk, who concluded the first long-term contract, took office. And here are the results of the Court of Auditors, my respects. I didn't make anything up, I didn't lie about anything. Why do you condemn me for lying? Why do you condemn in this report that there are so many lies, if that's not true? Mr. Türk made his first deal. In Table 11 of the Court of Auditors, see if you can read? Some of you seem to be able to read only opinions on the final page. You can't even read the contents, or how. We do not understand this in the parliamentary group in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here is exactly the table: Selling electricity to foreign customers from 1998 to June 2001, where the table of many customers of our energy is abroad. And it's beautifully written in 4th place, look: IPG, this contract has been concluded by Mr. Türk. But you can't read? For 766,000 megawatt hours at the price of 39,36 euros per megawatt hours, this is calculated at that average rate of approximately 8.3, 8.4 tolars per kilowatt hour. These are normal data which are also published in the Court of Auditors' report. If you don't, go figure out your own average euro rate back, and you'll see that this is the price. Then the next contract, concluded by Mr Türk, was the Ennipower for EUR 38 per mega war hour, or small quantities, to Unikam, for EUR 30.99 per kilohour, the euro of watts 32.75. What did the others do? Others, however, entered into contracts of 878,000 megawatt hours after 11.46. Tuerk's 39.66. And now some claim that what Tuerk has concluded is 39 euros after that was a harmful contract. However, what was concluded at EUR 11 per megahour was a pleasant one. Please! That's crazy! This is madness in this national council, and this is a great madness. And here is a whole series of such contracts, such low prices as those concluded by other directors, not Mr Tuerk, who has shown that electricity can also be marketed and what Slovenia should do - before we shut down, we should put in place a proper economic strategy on how to market electricity. Electricity was marketed to our account in 1998, 1999, 2000 by other countries. We gave them cheap energy, but they marketed it on our account because they sold our cheap electricity very expensive in Italy, through our transport routes. And our Eles, as the manager of transport routes in Slovenia, sold out all the transport routes to other companies so that they could market our own energy through our network to Italy and serve it fat. But who put commissions in their pockets, you can imagine. Those who were in power at the time and who had all this power. In our parliamentary group, we find out exactly what was actually happening in the Slovenian electricity system. We have broken this monopoly, and today we can look forward to finding that, while there has been a lot of change in this area, strange things still happen sometimes, though. Today, however, Slovenia is only so far away that it is also - and I firmly believe that it is thanks to the change in power in 2000 that we are trading normally with electricity today. Not because of the opening of the electricity market, which has happened on the basis of Slovenia's accession to the European Community, but also because of the then change of power, because we broke the monopoly where, today, at least some Slovenian companies, both state and private, are successfully trading electricity to Italy, where they are making huge profits. And that's right. And that is what Slovenia should have been doing since 1998, and we have not done that. Why we didn't start, it's clear - it was a construct, it was a monopoly, they were closed information, no one had access to this data and of course someone earned a fat profit. Who, but we'll have to figure it out. The Commission has clearly not found this, as shown in this report. Our Group will fully support the report, including the conclusions and conclusions, because they are definitely based on real documents, on real data, on real information. All documentation shall be in the seat of the Board of Inquiry. We could all look at her. No one looked at it except the individuals from the opposition parties. None of the government's clients looked at a single document! We are aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and today condemns the investigative commission, its President, which is absurd and shameful for Members and the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. Branko Janc has the floor to present the opinion of the Liberal Democracy Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In 2001 in the LDS Group, we supported the proposal by the Group of Members to launch a parliamentary inquiry to ensure the responsibility of the holders of public powers regarding the purchase and sale of electricity. We expected that a laparliamentary investigation was conducted in the direction of the actual findings of the causes and consequences of the failure of the power supply to Croatian Hep Power from the NEK and of the confirmation or suspicion of any abuse, in particular the abuse of the powers of the holders of public powers. That our expectations of the correctness of the procedure have been exaggerated and that it is more of a political spectacle, we are already quoted by the ambitions of some of the applicants to complete the evidentiary decision by questioning the witnesses Milan Kučan, Janez Drnovska and Anton Ropa, who would serve more for political marketing than to find out the facts, because they did not really have any connection with the subject of the investigation. In order for the story of alleged billions of damages to be heard, the President of the Commission, without a decision by the Commission and, contrary to the rules of procedure on the work of the investigative commission, invited the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, as a witness. I informed him in writing about the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which, of course, he later withdrew this invitation for a hearing. But this fact also raises doubts about the impartiality of handling the procedure and the sole desire to carry out the political lynching. The report, together with the conclusions and proposals of the conclusions, does not reflect the facts and situation at the time of the closure of Croatia. It is not based on documents, expert findings and analyses, nor on the findings of the hearing of witnesses. In its conclusions on alleged 16 billion injury, the report is misleading and does not contain serious professional judgement. A negative view can be drawn from the report of the Court of Auditors, of which the President of the Commission has already spoken. At the table we also received opposition from several witnesses, mag. Korošta, Dr Iva Banič, Dr Golob and also the Director of the Nuclear Commissioner Rožman, as well as the separate opinions of the four members of the Commission of Inquiry, For these reasons, the LDS Group will not support the final report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you, Comrade Branko Janc. On behalf of the SLS Group, Comrade Yuri Malovre has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u224	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! I'm not going to go into the details, because I've already said some things at the commission of inquiry myself. The Slovenian People's Party shall distance itself from the conclusions of the Commission for the following reasons. The conclusions written to public officials are extremely grave, since there is no least evidence of exploitation and this is a good name for the people recorded in the conclusions. In 1998, the government adopted a decision on the cut-off and non-supply of electricity to the Republic of Croatia and to the Croatian electricity industry, which is an assessment of the post-festivities, that the decision was underthinking. I must say here that we somehow agree with the Commission's findings. If the government had taken a decision to shut down Parliament, it would have been indignant because of the failure to pay electricity, the delay in the agreements between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and the non-payment to the Croatian Nuclear Decommissioning Fund, this decision would certainly have been confirmed in our National Assembly. This long Republic of Croatia and Croatia electricity has not been paid up until today. Two years earlier, I think in 1996 the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia ratified an agreement on the transit of electricity through our country. Nature went hand in hand with the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's electricity industry, as in a year later the rainfall and electricity from Austria's hydroelectric power plants were much cheaper than from the nuclear power plant. In an extremely short period of time, the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian electricity industry also built a high-voltage power line connected to Hungary under so-called military legislation. That's how they used energy from Hungarian nukes. As a result of the said decision, the government did not achieve the desired effect, as originally anticipated. The business of Eles has been reviewed by approved audit houses [[Kapa MG Slovenia, Audit House Podgoršek]] , with particular emphasis on transit in 2001, but did not find any irregularities reported in the Commission’s investigation report. The business of Eles was also reviewed by the Court of Auditors, with particular emphasis on the investigation period, and the Court of Auditors found no irregularities as cited. Some are talking about pressure on the Court of Auditors. I believe that the Court of Auditors, as the third independent branch of power, is offensive to such talk or insinuation for the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors did not require an additional report or an explanation for the audit, according to its findings from Eles. Some of the calculations that were made are just some kind of hypothesis, if there were, well, thank God it wasn't. Unfortunately, with regard to the former Yugoslav energy market, we did not build accumulating lakes, so that we could not save the excess electricity, but we had to sell it at any cost, even at a price, since the halting of the nuclear plant is even more expensive in a certain period. We also note that repairs were carried out during this time, both at the nuclear power plant and the renovations at the Trbovlje and Šostanja power plant. Because of the fact that there are enough electricity surpluses here, repairs could have occurred. Otherwise, there would be a collapse in the electricity system and in the economy of Slovenia; of course, this decision by the government did not foresee that this would be the case. Furthermore, the arguments and evidence in the conclusions cited as responsible for the economic injury were not taken into account, although they had the weight supported by the evidence. I myself have given a separate opinion covering only part of the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, where I express disagreement both with the findings and with the conclusions of the Commission. I'm not going to read this separate opinion separately, it's too extensive, and you've got it attached. And once again, to conclude, the materials do not detect any material encroachment, but at a given moment an extremely responsible attitude towards work in the electricity economy of Slovenia. The loss shown at 16 billion could not cover up the electricity economy, but it would be even harder to survive or witness to huge irritations, which, thank God, were not there. Well, it is precisely because of the above and said in the Slovenian People's Party that we distance ourselves from the conclusions of the commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you, Comrade Malvore. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the completion of the final report and on the proposal for conclusions. The word is from a colleague of Leopold Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to try, given the time I have at my disposal, to quickly move on to some other findings. I think that together we can find that the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia met at the first constructive meeting on 17 October 2001. Mr. President, please, if you'd be so kind. By 17 May 2002, the Commission of Inquiry met at eleven meetings and concluded the hearing of witnesses. That's what it says in seven months. Next, the 12th meeting was convened by the President of the Commission of Inquiry only on 24 January 2003, for eight months, after a good eight months, stating that it was a call by a panel of consultative nature. The members of the Commission of Inquiry were not aware of the interim activities of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Branko Kelemina, nor of the agreement that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances would consider the Court of Auditors' audit report on the operation of the public enterprise Elektro Slovenije in 1998-2001. I did not need to go to the offices of the President of the Commission, but I was able to reach all the correspondence that took place between the Court of Auditors and between Mr Bajuk, which took place in eight, nine months. I also tracked the record of the Commission's President, Mr Kelemina, without the Commission's consent, asking the former President of the Commission to carry out these activities. And the final result. When the audit report of the Court of Auditors was reviewed, Mr Bajuk, of course, informs the Court of Auditors that it was wrong to obtain this opinion and therefore proposes that they send this to all the investigative committee in which Mr Kelemina was, as if this material had been sent to the wrong address. It's been eight months since the committee was called in. The next 15th meeting of the Commission was convened on 21 March, where two witnesses were heard. We took an hour and 40 minutes to do that. The following Commission was convened on 18 February 2004. That's what it's called after eleven months of rest. And from the magnetogram, Mr Kelemina, it can be concluded that I have made a request for the report to be completed by 30 June at the latest, I am talking about 2003, not 2004, or by September 2003 at the latest, as Mr Pohorec, a member of the Commission, has also put in place. It was promised that the matter would be over by then. No, it was deliberately dragged and transferred in time until 2004, that it coincides with the appropriate elections and that, as you mentioned before, we will, as you yourself mentioned, this manure, which is today, of course only on you and so on and, unfortunately, we find that there are also opposition parties that are pouring it on the government and the government coalition, that it is then run out. These are the questions which call into question the objectivity of the work of this Commission of Inquiry. It was a good business space, it was a wage, and that was the only price, and it was the purpose of this commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you, my friend Leopold Groschel. Branko Janc gets the word please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you. In my debate, I might like to touch a little more on some of the issues on which the Commission of Inquiry's report is based at all. We have discussed this very extensively and on several occasions on the Commission of Inquiry itself. Unfortunately, there was no hearing to really understand the reasons why the Croatian buyer had been shut down. This also results in all further actions. My friend Kelemin, if you talk, I'll thank you very much. [[...]] If you allow me to continue, but if you want me to listen today when we talk about this, I will also argue with the papers. You used to say that Banič or the business committee of the Krško nuclear power plant led a sharp policy towards Croatian buyers or Croatian partners. Here I have a document that, of course, chronologically summarises all negotiations that have been ongoing since 1990 with regard to the regulation of status and property relations between both owners and investors. These negotiations already took place in 1990. At that time, Dr Miha Tomšič, who was Minister of Energy in the Slovenian Government, began these negotiations intensively, followed by Minister Max Tynikar from 1993 onward and were of course given initiatives. The Prime Minister has also taken a very active part in these negotiations. I'd like to introduce you to some of the thesis that was given at the time. It was a wish that the capital would be divided over both parties in a 50-50 ratio. This stems from the negotiations between the Secretary of State and Vidošević, which were operationally led by Kramberger on the Croatian side and on the Slovenian side by Secretary of State Sovic. At that time, there was essentially a legal framework in which this interstate treaty could also be drawn up. So, I've already said 50-50 capital sharing, the nuclear power plant will have a assembly, it will also have a supervisory board, that they will be parity represented by both countries, and the buyers will provide, within the framework of the NEK electricity price, funds for the fund, to finance the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste from the nuclear power plant. Both Parties shall accept commitments to ensure, in proportion to the energy taken over from the NEK, their location and their obligation to take over the storage and disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška nuclear power plant in operation and after decommissioning. A deadline is set for the Parties to establish sites for waste in their territory, namely 2002 and for the construction of landfills and for the collection of waste in 2007. The issue of company participation in maintenance and extraordinary events is solved by a formulation that allows for the participation of those companies that meet the conditions of qualified suppliers on the basis of established criteria. The issue of providing funds for closing the mines of Žirovski vrh, where Croatia has this desire of Slovenia to participate with its resources in this action, has been strongly opposed, and today we see that it has not cooperated. What questions remained open at that time? There have been most differences in employment policy. What actually happened after that? Then, in 1995, there was a total blockade on the work of the business committee as a management body. There was also a unilateral determination of the price of electricity by the Croatian customer of Croatia's Elektroprivreda, which greatly exacerbated the liquidity and economic situation of NEK Krško. All the agreements that have been between the Secretary and Minister Vidosevic have practically fallen into the water, and the key reason for Croatia was that the agreements so far have not been sufficiently resolved for Croatia in order to comply with Slovenian legislation, Mr Kelemina, once again, such as customs, employment and decommissioning of nuclear decommissioning as well as nuclear waste. Therefore, it is estimated that the most prudent NEK Krška would be to define as a free area. Such a position is consequently a denial of Slovenian legislation and of the legal arrangements and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in its field. I hope, of course, that by quoting some of the events that took place in 1995, you could easily understand why it was shut down in 1998. Mr Kelemina, just for decommissioning, today in 2004, we have not yet committed one tolar or the euro to decommissioning of Croatia. All the waste is left in Slovenia. Nuclear fuel, medium, low radioactive, waste is in Slovenia. And the debt that Croatia owed in 1998 was only 8 billion and a half for decommissioning. And you're saying that part of the business committee had, I don't know, strict policy. I think your term was a harsh policy to the Croatian side. Yeah, for God's sake, why did we name them? Why did the government name them? To protect Slovenian interests within the nuclear power plant. And if we speak 8 billion and a half just for decomposition, the debt for electricity supplied was significantly higher. The blockade on the Croatian side was the same as the ruling on pairers. This decision fell in 1996, I think at the end of 1996, where it was concluded by the Slovenian side that it was a matter of switching pairers. With the replacement of evaporators, the availability of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant increased. I think that now, every year, out of 4 billion 500 kilowatt hours, it now produces about -- there's a secretary of state who knows more precisely -- about 5 billion 300 million kilowatt hours. So this is a major change What you're saying simply doesn't hold that this decision is causing me no economic damage. On the contrary, at the moment when Slovenia decided and also told the Croatian buyer that for a product such as electricity, please, if you do not mind my discussion. [[...]] When you were talking, I was quiet, too. Undoubtedly, it is a measure which brought a great deal to the Slovenian side, brought the replacement of pairers and, by a decision of the 1998 government regulation, of course, Slovenia also cut down this Gordija knot as regards the authorities of the administration. And your discussion on this topic, which we have practically already discussed on the investigative committee as well as here, is that you come from a completely wrong assumption. You claim that the shutdown measure was unjustifiable, and for Slovenia it was harmful, and most believe that it was a necessary measure to protect Slovenian interests. You simply do not realize that nuclear has been blocked virtually since 1990, that it has been unlocked only for payment of wages and that suppliers have paid with bottles, with all other instruments, only with money. And under such conditions, it is my opinion that safety of operation has also been compromised. Of course, in the name of illiquidity, management has probably been forced into the extreme restrictive policy of purchasing all parts that should be replaced more or less, not only in the case of regular repairs. If I stop now a little while while you're calculating the alleged damage. Our conflict or our misunderstanding has already been from the very part of the commission of inquiry, where it has repeatedly wanted to involve the leading representatives of the party in this story. ambition first to question President Drnovsk, who in fact had absolutely nothing to do with this story. When he was replaced by Prime Minister Anton Rop, you immediately heard him or invited him as a witness to the hearing. Can you tell us what this one company has to do with the Prime Minister? Spectacle has also been achieved here today, of course. And talking about the 16 billion is obviously nonsense. Why? Look. The Court of Auditors, the members of the commission of inquiry, the objections of the witnesses, do not confirm this, and this is done over the thumb. You simply forget to play with human fates and to accuse them of such injury on such groundless grounds, it seems to me that it is all one thing. I am also aware that I am simply not skilled enough to judge, judge and also calculate how electricity trade has gone. Your assumptions cannot be held because these assumptions are based on Slovenia selling this energy in the belt. However, this energy was also demonstrated by the agreement that it was never Slovenian. Slovenia went into a shut-off measure, but it did not absorb this energy until 2000 because we were counting on the Croatian supplier to repurchase it. And if you also take into account the situation on the stock exchange, on the Liepsian stock exchange, it is possible to see from the prices that energy was sufficient at the time on the market to make this energy cheap and because it was cheap, Croatia used this possibility very skillfully to buy cheaper energy than it would have paid at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The economic position of the nuclear power plant has not deteriorated by disconnection. On the contrary. This is demonstrated by both the balance sheets and the testimony of the leading nuclear men. From the endless blockades, from the constant threats of ensuring optimal operating conditions, came today because this operation is stable because profit is generated and at least on the Slovenian side issues of fundraising for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant are resolved. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Yuri Malovre? No, no, no. Mag. A little something? Joseph Jerovšek. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first of all say that it is actually a shame that the leadership of the National Assembly has placed this point in the late hours of the night. When you so assure, what arguments do you have that you deny the institute of investigative commissions so that you are so afraid of all the public! I know that this has been determined under the previous leadership because Mr Pahor has given up, otherwise I am sure he would not have allowed such humiliation to the national assembly. However, I am surprised to see the new President, Mr Horvath, because we have broken this matter down on the Committee on the Economy where he presided. And there's a mag on that board. Vitoslav Tuerk proved and disarmed the entire assembly of Eles, who tried to accuse him, that they manipulated and traded in such a way as to harm the country. That the charges that flew into his account were null and void from the vine, he proved from his head every number. They tried to deceive him, he didn't have a report on him at all, but he gave a perfect long report from his head. He disarmed them just like the elementary school did. And yet I see the Director here still mentions as being the harmfulness of the contracts they have concluded in the last months of 2000, when he was the director of mags. Tuerk. But that's also true after the court dropped the charges against the Magi. Tuerka. When it proved and confirmed by a legal judgment that this was not true. Sadly, that quotation is also found in a separate opinion. It's sad. But it's still threatening and we don't recognize legal judgments like Comrade Juban at the previous commission of inquiry. And he's accusing himself of left and right. Last night, the former secretary of state on television threatened the president of the commission of inquiry, and nothing happened to anyone. It threatens to the left, threatens to the press and prevents them from reporting and [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I've got information! I don't know what you're afraid of. Will these gentlemen run, like Zdenka Cerar on your list? Are you afraid that the people will know? Looks like that fear is powerful. And, see, once again, it is necessary to say that anyone who knows little about energy, Mr State Secretary will probably confirm that, he knows that what was then provided by Eles' leaders, that they will force Croatia to pay its debts, and that it will reject what it should have done under the Treaties, on duty, that this cannot happen on August 1st. When the whole Italian industry was shut down. All countries already have too much water energy running through turbines into the void. Disengagement is then a product due to the fact that everything has already been agreed in the future that electricity will be sold in the next period at price and that someone will have the profits. I believe that it was agreed with the Croats, individuals from HEP who worked for their own account and also for Croatia, and also for their own pockets and for Italy. However, if this were to be done, of course, those leaders in Eles could have made a deal six months earlier, they would have known that we would not be able to understand, obviously no, we would have shut down on August 1st, we would have concluded a long-term contract with the Italians, as the Minister concluded in a few days in 2000, for expensive electricity sales. This would be pressure on Croatia. That would be it. And that could be done. If you knew further, you'd turn it off. Croatia also cannot force Slovenia to do so, because it had so many unpaid payments. You have the right to take action. Then we could make a separate deal, negotiate with the Italians for sale. No, before that, the transport routes had already been handed over to Croats without payment. And it shows that everything was planned, meticulously planned. And look, it's funny, colleagues in the position that you didn't look into one document, as the chairman of the commission said, and now you're denying it on the basis of some letters from some directors. You're writing this post-festum, I actually have to say, a miserablely separate opinion. But a separate opinion, which is not even on the investigative commission's report at all, but you refer to the investigative commission's report. The report was made once before, and you did not give it up and you can no longer broadcast it, you can submit it to this supplement. However, if this is the case, you deny the indications of the Court of Auditors. It's all in the Court of Auditors tables! And if no one opened it, how can you deny it? And I am very sorry that the coalition MPs did not look at the documents. That's not an honor. However, they have now signed under some kind of paper, but they are, I must say, miserable. That's pathetic, those papers. And look, I think it's the duty of Members, I understand the political duty to defend my government, my people, but the commission of inquiry is all over the world, if you're looking at the American Commission of Inquiry when Members are drilling. There's gotta be a level of morality in the country, but there's gotta be something. And I would say here, of course, it was necessary to write that there was objective responsibility, President Drnovšek and Minister at the time. I'm pretty sure these two didn't have the right information. They are objectively responsible because they are in a position under the government law and are completely objectively responsible. But they were deceived, in my opinion. Maybe someone else. This is also evident from how quickly the Liberal Democracy has gotten rid of Drnovska, which is attacking him now because he is trying to be politically neutral. He became practically enemy number one in Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u231	Would you stay on the report, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u232	I'm here separating those economists who didn't deal with energy, who didn't, who might have fooled them and convinced them that they could do something about it on August 1st. Of course, it is possible to convince a stranger. But because they saw billions, they were so much more motivated about this belief, and they made so much effort. You really need to take these papers into your hands. I believe that I am much deeper into this through the Committee on the Economy than some who write separate opinions here. I'm so sorry. And at the time, it was time to process the commission of inquiry to at least ask questions to ask questions so as to have a basis for writing separate opinions. I do not know if you have read, when an investigative committee was held, interviews with Mr Athelski, when he unequivocally said what was behind and condemned, accused some of what they had in mind and what kind of business they were doing. I think you'll also say that Mr Athelski is a stranger to being a delinquent, but I don't know what charges all went against Mr Kelemino. Mr. Kelemina has examined this very meticulously. It's your problem that he studied this stuff day and night, that he's a pedantic, that he's diligent, that it's no harm to his time. And now deny the work of that Member who was willing to work. I stress once again, and Mr Atelšek probably has some idea about these transactions. Last but not least, I think he's into it, even in trade, I mean, among other things. So to deny all this, I don't think it's going to work. And I must also say that the government's miserable opinion is on an additional report. Disgusting. First of all, I think it's funny that you're saying that electricity wasn't exported from the NEK. Yeah, well, then the damage was even worse! At a much higher price, local buyers paid for their home from the thermal power plant. But if you exported that, there was an even greater difference. But the remote in Italy did not know where the electricity came from, which is what Mr President said to that part of the public, who is about to get that kind of information. That's why such references are funny here. And I would expect the government to make a concrete argument, not to reject it by thumb, without arguments. However, you deny all the combined reports of the Court of Auditors, the tables used there, evidence that the Court of Auditors report is such. You set up an accounting court because we didn't have a chance to influence its composition. I mean, that's a very strange story. I think we need to learn something from this story for the future - that the investigative commission institute needs to be taken seriously. In the previous term, you did not allow the final reports to be considered. I myself was president of one, I submitted a report on time and you did not allow it. You picked a different tactic this year. Do you conclude that the report is completely wrong, which you will also do today, even though no one has gone into the files, obviously no - let the person who has studied the whole thing in the office of the President of the Commission of Inquiry report. And you've delayed this matter again in the late hours of the night. The new president doesn't build a reputation with this. I should end this matter as Chairman of the Economic Committee, where this matter has already been cleared. But, of course, since that clearance was not sufficient, an investigative committee has been set up, which is usually the case in all parliaments. Again, I must say that for me, Mr Kelemina, who has studied so meticulously, is also in this area of authority. He tried so hard. Of course, those who write or write papers are not credible with these messages and with such judgments. I think we need to look forward to the credibility of the work of the investigative commissions in the future. This report, of course, needs to be supported and I hope that these threats will end for the members of the Commission of Inquiry or for the President of the Commission of Inquiry. Finally, it is a shame that the government wrote "there were only five present Members when it was adopted". Yes, of course, they hid, coalition Members, if they didn't know what it was if they didn't look. Now the government is making this clear to the investigative commission, which was final. Something about the government writing it in. He's trying to discredit the investigative commission in this way. Shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u233	Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I would like to comment a little on certain things with certain Members, as well as with the parliamentary groups. First with Mr. Jace, my soviet colleague, I hope I can say so. I dare say to my colleague Janc that one of the few members of the government coalition who is at least partially familiar with this issue of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and also the resold of electricity, even though I have to say little to him, forgive my respectable colleague, you have not done enough of this. However, I must admit that you also have some data that I do not have, but the Commission as such has not dealt with what has been happening since 1990 with the NEK, but the Commission has specifically determined that it should only deal with the events of 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 for the first half. Although, of course, we have considered certain elements even backwards, but we should not have officially dealt with them here, and we should not have written this in the report either. Since I am not allowed to write things in the report for periods for which the Commission is not authorized to investigate, this is definitely clear, so those old debts that Mr Janc is talking about, indeed, Croatia has not committed anything to decommissioning and probably not formed the fund today, they probably do not have a common fund yet. As I'm aware of this information, they didn't have it at the time, and they don't have it today. How much they owe today, I don't know how much you've calculated. Whether it's settled or not, I don't care. I'm not interested in decommissioning. However, it is definitely that before the shutdown Croatia did not owe Slovenia either 2 billion or more, just over a billion and a half years before the power cut-off, nothing more. Look at the logs. I have the minutes of the NEK Provisional Business Committee. There's all the data in there, everything. It was no longer long for the supply of electricity. It clearly states, and the government also writes in its documents two months before the closure, clearly states how much debt there is. The total debt was estimated at around 10 billion, but only with electricity supply would it be significantly less. Let's look at another fact. Let's just say that the disconnect had to happen and the disconnect had to happen. But it wouldn't be fair and fair for us Slovenians to benefit from this disconnect, but we did have a loss. Look, Croatia had to pay us about 4 tolars, a little more for a kilohour. When we shut down, we got the electricity on average paid for 2,6, 2,7. We lost two tolars about a kilohour. However, Croatia imported electricity during this period in 1998 because there was a lot of energy on the European market. Our same energy, which we exported because energy doesn't know the name, because we said before, the kilowatt hour doesn't know whose it is, actually the energy from the nuclear power plant, because it's closest, probably went back to Croatia immediately, but the bills went back to Austria or Switzerland or anywhere else. But back she imported 3.5 tolars, on average. Croatia was worth it, they profited. One tolar was profited by Croats and we lost at least two tolars. Yeah, well, who's not gonna do this job, please?Oh, my God! Not only Croatian businessmen and Croats as a whole laughed at our stupidity, Croatian cows could laugh at us, not only Croats, that we went into such stupid business. It was definitely in 1998 and 1997 and earlier that Switzerland and Austria traded electricity, and state-owned companies of the same rank as Eles, Austria, Switzerland and so on traded with Italy, selling electricity via our network. And we didn't do it, we didn't know it, we didn't want it. And we'd rather collect commissions, someone would rather collect commissions than market electricity. That's definitely clear. And now you're saying there was no energy in the belt. Yeah, well, how was the energy in the belt in 2000. And 2001? How, then, did energy come into existence in the belt and sell, I don't know, 1,600 or how many megawatts in the belt at the annual level or gigawatts or how many contracts have been concluded? But then there was energy in the belt? Please. But, of course, it is necessary to make an electricity balance based on the full potential of production in Slovenia, which was then also done by directors in 2000 at Zagozhn, for the first time in history, it is likely that the directors of electric companies were invited to the Minister, the Minister of Economy, and that they agreed there and agreed on the concept that it is actually going to the maximum production, that they will try to ensure maximum production in their facilities and thus also allow electricity surpluses to be sold in the belt. However, all other exchanges or balancings that have already been established in the long term, including the acquisition of power and possible failures, and so on, are easily managed by, on the other hand, imports in order to settle these fluctuations and repairs and so on. This was followed by an unacceptable electricity balance for 2001 on the basis of which these measures of long-term contracts for the export of business energy in Italy were adopted. Why didn't this happen before? Please! Because it was definitely a mistake and, as we found out, we oversold electricity at the time and did not secure our own interests. And that must have been a mistake. Of course, we look at these things differently, Mr. Janc. The problem is that you may know that certain things are different than you are defending them, but you just have to defend them the way you defend them, even because you're in another political option. But someone's definitely made a fortune on this account all these years. If I had at least as much as any normal price to export this electricity to Italy, these surpluses were not just night surpluses that could be converted into business energy. Of course you can say, we spent the day at home, but at night we exported that the Austrians were pumping water there at those hydro power plants with our cheap electricity and so on, whatever is already going on. We can say that, but we could put a different policy in this area. But someone, because I say based on these manipulations he's made rich, not only abroad at our expense, but I'm firmly convinced that commissions have also fallen home and this money is slowly coming back. It'll be easy if this money doesn't come back if it doesn't. You will take a look around the property of individuals, and you may find out what the matter is. I would also like to touch on Mr Grošl's report. I truly regret, my dear fellow, that you have embarked on such a low level of personal accounting. I wonder if you would be the chairman of the Commission, if you would be able to study all these piles of material every day from morning to night and take not one month or two months in between to study things twice, three times thoroughly and then prepare a final report. No one wrote a single sentence in this report. I had to write it all myself. Who studied this material? You haven't come to see a single document. I had to do it all on my own, and now you're telling me that the commission didn't take all the time. This is unacceptable and true with all due respect, Mr Grošelj, to you. And you're also giving me that salary that I got on this account that I spent the whole night sitting in the National Assembly, and also in the morning by five to six, that I wrote and studied certain documents and on Saturdays and so on and carried the materials home, the files and studied, as far as I was able, along with all the other things I've done. And accuse me of simplifying! All information is taken from existing documents and records, all of which are summarised in the Court of Auditors’ report. But please, why are you looking at documents so unilaterally? The Court of Auditors’ report is to be analysed as well. It's not written to just read the final opinion. Therefore, the Court of Auditors’ report has not been written! And I told Mr. Janc once a comparison. Of course, it can be the business of our company or some company where Mr Janc was the director, or at first I was the director for a year or a half, for example, and I created 10 billion losses, and then Mr Janc came after me for the second half of the year and he made 20 billion profits. And at the end of the year, the company was operating on profits. Am I the successful director who created 10 billion losses? Please! The same is true in this report by the Court of Auditors. In this table number 11, you've been shown nicely. All the export contracts are written here, but you need to know which transactions have been concluded by which director. And it is clear that those contracts which have a high price have been concluded by Mr Tuerk, and all others which have a low price have been concluded by other directors, Mr Banic, and some probably by Mr Korošec. And they all appreciate that Mr. Tuerk has concluded good contracts, which the Court of Auditors has also found. And it's clearly written in his report, you just have to read it. And you don't want to read this on purpose, and you are deliberately distorting this data, that these contracts concluded by Mr Tuerk were the only profitable, positive, and they were making profits to Eles. The same has happened, my respects, with the complaint lodged by Mr Korošec against Vitoslav Tuerk, that he caused economic damage and so on. And this table, which you drew there on Eles or on the government, I don't know where you drew it, is completely rejected by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana by decision 14.6.2004 and clearly explained the entire course of events, in the same sense and with the same understanding as I explain it personally. Read that for yourself! I copied some copies and distributed them by the National Assembly, and you have this document where the District Attorney's Office completely rejected the complaint filed by Mr Korošec. And even mentioning that the documentation shows that it is only, I think, that the contracts concluded by Mr Tuerk were profitable for Eles. The D.A. found out. Is that a lie? Is that a lie? May I comment on this and present this to the National Assembly of the Slovenian Public? Can I do that? And you accuse me of lying and deceiving. On the contrary, perhaps because of the time we are now in this report, I must say that there is so much demagogism on your part, so much populism and so many accusations at the expense of this report. I wanted to finish this report myself in the shortest possible time, but when I started dealing with this set of data, when I started beating myself up and really getting to the truth, or at least to the near pure truth, I realized that I couldn't do it in as short a time as I promised myself that I would do it, because I was also doing some other business with these. It wasn't my only occupation. I'm sorry. I've been doing other things. And I failed, I failed to prepare things before, I admit. Now, of course, it's a little difficult to discuss at this time, but regardless, I don't think what's been going on right now should have happened. And that's all I'd say to Mr Grošeljov, with all due respect for you, really, with all due respect, that you had three years to do more on the committee, but I had the feeling that you were basically muttering and thinking because Kelemina wasn't going to bring anything together. I firmly believe that this was present with you and that indeed all three ruling elite groups could bring together a slightly different separate opinion, indeed. This is beneath all normal praise, commendation, or whatever else, I did not expect this to happen so badly that someone could draw up a separate opinion. At the end of all this, I wonder, of course, whether in this loving country of Slovenia there is no one who would be independent, separate from politics, even from my assumptions and my views on all these issues, give an assessment either from the press circles or from a public opinion or from some professional public and assess what is actually an approximate possibility or truth or at least roughly trying to tell the Slovenian public and to us what is actually happening in this area obviously no longer anyone hopes to do so, since recently this is said to be at a meeting where Mr. Kučan, a grey eminence, was present today, was also more likely to talk about some electricity and is said to be in some conversation by Mr. Kučan, from the power of the hand, still today. I wasn't there. I've learned this from a lot of reliable sources, if it's still possible for someone to make that statement today, then we know where we are today in this area. Of course, anything is possible in the field of electricity. But this, as I said, I am glad only that at last some market has been around or that at least today we have a number of state-owned companies as well as private ones who are able to trade in electricity and that future such damage and manipulations that have occurred in Slovenia's electricity market in the past period in Slovenia will no longer take place. This is my real desire, or I am glad that something has changed in this area too. I would just like to comment on the report, a separate opinion from Mr Malovrev, but I have now lent it to Mr Jerovšk. I would like to say this, my fellow Members and colleagues, that you will know that Mr Malovrev didn't write a single letter of this report on his own, but he did sign the document that Mr Korošec sent to him. In the letter that Mr Korošec sent to us for a separate opinion on the Commission, there are exactly the same paragraphs as in that report that Mr Malovrej wrote, and I know the dictionary of Mr Korošc so well, I know exactly what I am reading, and I know who wrote a comment, I know him so well. And that Mr Malovre has allowed himself to sign a document which he has not signed himself is also truly sad, sad for a member of the national assembly. I would never do that, ever. If there's anything I don't know, I'd rather be quiet. Really. In this case, I regret this and also condemn such an act by one Member who is unable to write half a page or one side of a different opinion with his knowledge, if he does not already agree with what the Commission has adopted, but the fact that it is definitely the work of the Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u235	Somebody shut the phone down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u236	Only the president actually had to work, he could work, and no one else. [[...]] Well, that's what's happening to me. It happens to me that sometimes even 60 times, 100 times someone calls me on the phone, because they're trying to intimidate me because they blackmail me when you answer, and there's no one on the phone. That's typical, but that's not why. In the work of this commission, I was extremely lonely, as far as I had consulted a fellow opposition, but otherwise this work was very difficult, even though once you know the system, once you know the problem, things are extremely simple and extremely simple, they are no longer as complicated as they seem to all those who did not deal with these things. I regret such attacks both on the President and on the Commission as well as on the report itself. I also regret that the report in such a form will not be adopted and I expect that if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is already unable to realistically assess a situation from our short history back, it will be able to do so at least in the future for this period that we have survived, and also to assess our current work in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u237	Joseph Skull, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I almost didn't believe I'd get a word of it, given this moaning. Apparently, it's the high season today, and I'm taking advantage of this opportunity that there's no normal neighbor here, so I can take either tragedy or comedy into defense. But what is happening with this report and with this debate would need to upgrade this paraphrasing about certain things appearing as farce. Mr Kelemina has taken this important step forward. What I really regret is that from some right-wing question about whether someone made use of a once-in-a-lifetime lower price of electricity for sale, in fact, this whole debate was about how Mr Kelemina was alone on this job. I regret that, but apparently his loved ones have let him down. When he performed as a representative of the parliamentary group, he was practically alone from the Social Democrats or the Slovenian Democrats in this explosion. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, well, obviously we listened to him, and you didn't. It also seems very hypocritical to me what Mr Jerovšek is saying, that this is a late hour. But even at this hour, he won't be able to listen to his colleague. I don't know what this play is about or what you're accusing us of, or if you're not ready to participate in this debate yourself. This is about some kind of hypocrisy. Mr Kelemina here shares the inscriptions and frequencies of who is capable of this debate and who is not. From what he was saying today, I suppose he will be looking for a job at the university and will almost certainly teach the economy in electricity, almost certainly. But of course, I am not qualified to judge, but I can say that regardless of the piles of material he has read, he has not read the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. And I find that very embarrassing, because that's why he's been getting paid all this time. If I had read this, then the report would not have been a potentially objectively guilty set, but would have tested at least some evidentiary conclusion. There was no evidentiary decision, there was no procedure, there was some kind of lamentation, and that is, I will say, a real abuse of this instrument that we have. And I shouldn't have allowed myself to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Kelema's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would answer Mr Školč only so much because it is obvious to me that I have not read the Rules of Procedure and not the Law. I should say that I've read it many times, and I know it very well, don't worry. But in view of the debate you had with some other leaders of the parliamentary groups or representatives of the parliamentary groups, as well as other members of the commission from the ruling parties, it seems to me that they do not really know the rules of procedure or the law. I really don't. I admit that I have done all things together with my professional services to the best of my ability, but I have not caused a national assembly or a tolar of additional costs, not with external advisers, not experts, not with any other legal experts and so on. Not even a tolar because I didn't dare because I thought we could do these things ourselves. We'll do our best on our own, but if we can't do it, we'll hire someone. I didn't even make a tolar cost to anyone. And yet I am firmly convinced that we have not condemned anyone forward in our final report. Where does it say it's someone's fault? All we did was point out that we were undisputedly finding out, and the Commission found out. The Commission has indisputably concluded that those responsible under the law are also subject to this responsibility. You know the Constitution, you know the government law, you know the law on the organisation of ministries or what it's called, because you know that. Companies have their statutes, they have a supervisory board, they have their rules and so on. And there's a clear definition of responsibility. I ask you kindly, and I now feel that I do not know the law and the rules of procedure on parliamentary inquiry, this is again an additional, forgive me, respectable Mr Školč, the further humiliation of the President and of the Commission of Inquiry as a whole. Please don't talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u241	Franz Puksic wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Not again. Yes, Mr Kremjar, there is also something to say in this report. Mr Evil is not at the expense of your Group of Members, and then please let me speak because it is at the expense of our Group of Members. Of course, I believe that you do not sit here at this hour, as I do not, but there is another story which is not my fault, of course, but it is your parliamentary group's fault, because it has decided so. You know, as far as the report on the injury to electricity sales prepared by Mr Kelemina is concerned, it is relatively simple. It's simply because he's talking about gigawatt hours and he's talking about specific numbers. Relatively simple because he said how the currents flowed and, of course, relatively simple because he said that the funds flowed into such or different accounts. If you remember the black accounts at the Celovo bank regarding Elan and the responsibility for it, no one took over. It is true, however, that such accounts for the ruling coalition are clearly necessary, as they need them, if not before, at least every four years for the electoral campaign. See, when we speak, and when we make the arguments, as in this case, as did colleague Kelemina, and not only him, the Court of Auditors has also given arguments when, of course, such or other irregularities arise, including from the tax administration's statements that certain cases were paid in contravention of legislation when we put the arguments on the table, then you start with a set of discredits, not to say anything else. This cannot, it simply cannot be the way in which in this country, which they said was the rule of law, so written in the constitution, would hold for a long time. Obviously it won't be, and obviously such an understanding, thank God, it's already coming down. Like some even before the courts in the debates under oath, they make certain statements for which you then ask the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia whether these claims are correct or not, and you get the answer that nothing is true of course. The final result of these investigative commissions, which are mainly led or led by members of the opposition, is, of course, the actions and convictions of those who have responded to these irregularities. Not just lawsuits and convictions, but of course threats, such and different, even physical, that happen to both individuals who deal with such big pigs. But unfortunately, it's not about content, it's not about actually discovering anything that's been going on, but it's just about getting things going under the rug as much as possible. Let the Slovenian proverb say, "The crows don't turn off their eyes." And if you are those crows with those who make these pigs, then it is sad enough and only to hope that the wider Slovenian public will recognize these intentions. Of course, in the way you portray it during the nighttime, in such an emergency situation, a person simply does not understand it, but it is obviously the last plant you have ever touched on. My friend Kremjar used to say he's ashamed of him many times, but it's always because of someone else, never because of himself. I'd just say this, and I'm ashamed that we have such leadership of the National Assembly to deal with such important matters in this way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u243	Comrade Pukšič, stay in the debate we're having.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u244	together with you, Vice-President, like these investigative reports. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u245	Let us stick to the debate we are having on the agenda. Does Franci Rokavec want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to associate myself with this conclusion by my colleague Puksic that it is unworthy of the work of the parliamentary investigative commissions to deal with such an important report in such late hours. Notwithstanding the fact that parliamentary holidays are approaching, which are due to take place after July 15, this is actually unacceptable. These reports were prepared in due time and could be dealt with within the time limit before and during normal time. So much for that. Why did I stop by? I stopped by because I also listened to my colleague Grošlj's discussion. And I must be honest with you that I know my colleague Kelemino from the previous term and also from the current term, and I must say that those statements and allegations that he was only going for money in running this commission, but they are indeed humiliating. This is how Members should not be bet each other, frankly. I was a member of this commission at the beginning of a few months, but then because of the agreement in the parliamentary group, because I had obligations in other working bodies, I resigned from this commission and took over the task of my colleague Malovre. However, I must be honest that, at the time that I was a member of the Commission, colleague Kelemina ran this committee properly. And I have this feeling that where there's smoke, there's fire. And here there's no black and white variant, no black and white picture. And that, such persistent denial of the views that the Commission has also drawn up, is also, in my opinion, unsustainable. At the very least, the fact that Mr Vitoslav Türk was so thorny in both functions, in both positions, that it was necessary to get rid of him as soon as possible for the price of illegality. This is one question of why a person’s strong interest is so strong that a person is eliminated or removed as soon as possible that no one would, of course, have any different influence or knowledge about the electricity business. Therefore, I am sure that, from this point of view, there has also been a report today, and I am not saying that everything is true, as it says in this report, but that there has been a lot of deliberation and also a lot of maliciousness, including those who have expressed extremely many concerns or oppose the Commission's report. I don't think that's right. Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry and also report such as [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Take it seriously, especially for the people who have prepared the work and, of course, have prepared it with all seriousness. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u247	Thank you. And the last debater, Joza Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u248	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone in this late, and it'll be an early hour at any time. First of all, I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that the Slovenian public will be informed about the work of these investigative commissions, as well as those relatively very poorly, because it is probably the hour and also the transmission, which does not ensure that the subject under consideration is informed objectively. The fact is that all the key things that are on the agenda of the National Assembly are moving into the late hours of the night when we can withdraw as many of those who are willing to listen are talking about that something in this country is not working and that something in this country is not right. I think that the authorities, whatever it is, should ensure that the items on the agenda are dealt with within acceptable deadlines so that the public is informed of them in an acceptable manner. And concealing, hiding and so on, that's the only thing that's left to deal with. The other thing that is extremely disturbing is that the biggest criticisms are those who should have created this report, which were appointed to the Commission by the National Assembly. As we can see, you did not even attend meetings, nor did they contribute a word, nor a sentence, and then write a separate opinion as a criticism. I think that the way that the members of this working body, at least as I understand it, speak of, in fact, that you have decided to block the matter entirely. And such a destructive approach by the members of the Commission to the Commission and to the President, I think it is worth all the criticism, if not anything else. I don't think that's the way. The next thing you would expect, if you had already written a separate opinion, is to find out where the writer of the report was wrong in the calculation, where he was wrong in the dates of individual responsible persons, individual contracts and so on. None of those who wrote separate opinions, not on one side or on the other, wrote one word and one account to prove that the report was mathematically wrong. Listen, you're the one who's writing a separate opinion, and you're justifying a case, you shouldn't be able to afford it. No one wrote in this separate opinion that the figure of 16 billion, which is written in the conclusion, is correct. No one in a separate opinion stated that these persons were not at the time responsible as described in this Decision. And the argument that it wasn't then and that it wasn't like it was written here, I think it's demeaning and a lie of the first kind. That's what I think is a simple lie. If we want any separate opinion, then someone should write that the calculation of the megawatt hour times the price for a megawatt hour does not work. Nobody did that. No one has ever justified what you wrote. And for all those of you who have been on this committee and who are also from the technical profession, I think this is extremely negative. The next thing that we have heard from all of these debates about these committees today is this: if this is how we interpret the functioning of the country, let's say, under all these macros and other criteria, when we make the biggest negative, then obviously we see that manipulation is perfect. And I can't imagine you representing anyone else among those you represent and with enough muscle to accept certain things to trust anyone else. Because no one in this country is in a position to justify the matter with a document, with data, with calculation and so on. That's the only thing that would be credible, that's the only thing that would be appropriate. And I think that all of these conclusions that you have written in a separate opinion, which you have criticised, could be justified in this way. If you have arguments, if you have knowledge, if you have a little more work experience, you could add to these materials that Kelemina brought back at the time of the debate, without a problem. I don't think it's a particularly difficult and difficult mathematical operation, we just multiply the megawatt hours at the price of a megawatt clock, we just add it up a few times by the number of contracts and draw the line. That's what happened. And the credibility of this report could then be different. What is here, however, is pure manipulation, pure deception, and the only goal is that the time has passed, that the term of office has expired and that nothing has come to light. And protecting such irregularities as the Commission has written in this report is not rejected by argument, I do not think it can be an example and cannot be the pride of this state administration, this authority towards citizens. I think it's worth every review. And the country can't function in this way. Even if we look at investigative commissions in some other parliaments, they obviously sit down much more seriously, they get deeper and they process much more independently and neutrally to the authorities, no matter what options they come from. This can sometimes be seen, we have the opportunity to see the hearings of the highest representatives of the countries of developed democracy for even more banal matters, such as such matters as suspicion or assessment of state property, but there is no problem in providing the Prime Minister or anyone at such hearing with this parliamentary commission. But with us, we do everything, and that's the only thing you can do to get things done in a way that's banalized, that's a serious problem that's banalizing. And I don't think he can be proud of anyone, not the opposition, because he doesn't have the power to drive things differently, and even less the position that drives this thing so effectively. But the problem is no less, it's nothing different. That's how it happened, as it was written, and that's a fact. And not for the first time, it's going to happen again, and it's going somewhere else. And since we have no desire and no will to change anything, these things will seem to be running for a while at the same time. And the country is losing pace, problems are increasing, differences are growing, unjustifiable things are going on, and on the other hand we are taking credit for things we simply don't need. It should be said that Mr Kelemina, if, as he said, with the professional services, he wrote this report himself, that I consider it very credible, because there is no separate opinion attached to it, he does not object, he does not deny any of the particulars in there. It's all a fairy tale you wrote. And it is a shame that under such documents members of both eminent political groups, such as in this national assembly, are signed practically the whole government sector. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u249	Would you like a word with the proposer?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would like to ask procedurally on the basis of which article of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, under which article of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry may also be included in the debate by the Institute of Parliamentary Inquiry. Parliamentary investigation is an institution of Parliament and no other institution. I assess that the Government has no right in this process to discuss the final report of the Commission of Inquiry. This is my assessment and tell me under which article of the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation the Government has the right here as an executive branch of the Authority. They may participate in meetings of the Commission, its representatives who are invited as witnesses or themselves to report as witnesses or so on, I assess that they do not have these rights. You give it to them, you give it to them, but that's my opinion. In the end, I would only, honourable Members, present, propose or find that the report is mainly or almost entirely based on authentic documents and documents and cannot be practically amended as such and no one has changed it either by amendments or by any other means. That certainly leaves this part of the report unchanged. The National Assembly, as we have already established, has the right and the Commission has also accepted this part undisputedly, and has also adopted conclusions and conclusions, of course. The National Assembly shall have the right not to adopt a finding, but shall also have the right to propose different decisions. I do not see any conclusions, and I expect the National Assembly to discuss and adopt these conclusions, so I will read them again and present them. The Commission of Inquiry adopted, at its meeting, a proposal for conclusions, three decisions, and also proposes to the national assembly to adopt the following decisions in respect of the subject matter of this investigation. First time. The National Assembly notes that at least 16 billion tolars are responsible for the economic damage caused by public function holders and others in companies, namely, Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek, Vice-President of the Government in 2000 Mag. Mr Anton Rop, Minister of Economy from 1.4.2000 to 7.6.2000 Dr. Anton Rop, Minister of Economy from 1.4.2000 to 7.6.2000 Tea Petrin, State Secretary for Energy from 17.4.1999 to 19.6.2000 Dr Robert Golob, Director of Eles from 1998 to 6.4.2000 Dr Ivo Banič and Director of Eles from 6.4.2000 to 22.9.2000 and from 11.1.2001 to mag. Vekoslav Korošec and Director of NEK in the years from 1998 onwards Mr Stane Rožman. This is the first proposal for a decision. The second proposal for a decision to be adopted by the National Assembly reads: "The National Assembly notes that, between 27.2.1997 and 7.6.2000, those government officials violated Article 113 concerning Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since they did not act for the welfare of Slovenia as they were bound by an oath." Third decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose to the State institutions which protect the rule of law and its property to take appropriate action, within the framework of laws and powers, against the responsible holders of public functions referred to in the decision of the National Assembly under number 1. These are the three proposals for decisions adopted by the Commission of Inquiry, which are proposed to the National Assembly to adopt them. As we have found, there are no other proposals for conclusions. I am confident that these decisions will be discussed, decided on, and adopted by the State Assembly in such general form and in the kind form proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Does anyone object to me concluding the debate? All those who wanted to discuss it had the opportunity, although there was still some time left. It's also time for us to conclude this agenda item. I therefore conclude the debate on the report and the proposal for conclusions. It's been a while, though. I asked if anyone objected to my conclusion, or I will reopen the debate after Article 71. Then the explanation of the voice and so on can also be used there. Yeah, well, then I have to open a debate for everyone who's coming forward. Then I open the debate. Who wants to discuss signing up for me first? This part of the Rules of Procedure will be interpreted by me. I'm writing it down. Since you're almost everyone, I'll write it all down. Excuse me, I'll read who signed up for an additional debate. Colleagues Janc, Grošelj, Anderlich, Bevk, Černugelj, Čeligoj, Jerovšek, Kelemina, Drobnič, Kremjar, who gives up, Mamić, Sok and Tanko applied. Left, right, you'll get a word in two minutes. I'm a friend of Janc's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u252	Thank you. I do not want to delay discussions at this late hour, but, of course, it deserves an answer to some of the obvious. Once again, I am fully behind a separate opinion. A separate opinion is a document which fully advocates the position that the thesis referred to by Comrade Rokavec stands. There's no black and white story here. And if one part of the investigative commission wants to seduce this story, that there was a theft of 16 billion tolars in this Slovenia, that is simply not true. It is necessary to understand the situation and I myself, as a member of the Commission of Inquiry, and perhaps others do not even feel so professional that at one point they can make a calculation of the alleged damage by selling electricity as done by colleague Kelemina. This calculation is based on such simplified logic that I simply cannot accept this logic. When we in our separate opinion objected to the findings and final conclusions which we object to, of course, it is necessary to know that the report was not possible to be amended because colleague Kelemin said at a meeting of the commission of inquiry, this is the document that I wrote, which I have prepared, this is just a summary of the facts arising from the work of the commission of inquiry. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and any interference in this document is impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Jojo Tanko? No, no, no. Then I'll draw. Leopold Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, 33 months have passed since the appointed commission. Of this, the commission hasn't worked for 19 months and hasn't met. I suggest you look in the mirror. From the 17th meeting, I attended 15 sessions, from the first to the 15th session, at the 16th meeting, I was on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when we were working for about 9 hours, and I was in Bonn for the whole week. As Mr Školč said, Mr Kelemina, by letter of 16.7.2000, has agreed with the former President of the budgetary control commission to take over the tasks. As a result of the fact that he found after seven months that he could not find out what he was interested in, I am talking about Mr Bajuk, he then wrote to the Court of Auditors that he did not order the documentation not to know its contents and that they did not want to accept it and that they should give it to the competent service. The letter, which, of course, was written by the President of the Court of Auditors, reminds him of his letter, this is annex number 3, and asks them to read it because he ordered it. Mr. Kelemina, you have been misled by your own people. In the debate at the 17th session of the Commission, you first said that a separate opinion to be drawn up would be considered and that the Commission would be reconvened. You said in a closed session that it wouldn't be dealt with. I got a magnetogram on Friday, and Monday it was 14 days before I had to give it because I was officially absent. When I arrived at work on Monday, I called Mr Kelemino to discuss a separate opinion. He said we're not going to deal with this anymore. So please, Mr. Tanko, don't say anything in your head. But let those who did not attend the meetings ask themselves. Mr. Rokavec seems to have failed one responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Aloys Sok - cancels. [[Back-up advertising.]] No abuse. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u256	I used to believe in coincidences, not anymore. I was invited to the Assembly of the Republic in Maribor and apparently those who convened this meeting in Maribor today thought that all those who were no longer in the game to move forward should remain here, and so also gentlemen who must defend the two unfortunate reports in this assembly at this time. And, of course, I wonder if it is possible to force a report from the National Assembly that neither of the two members of the Commission agree with. Each member of the Commission shall have a different opinion. And even after the report in the National Assembly had already been rejected, the conclusions were reached that certain circumstances had not been established, but tried with the theatre Even more, yesterday I watched a video on television accidentally when I went to the club, how even in preparation for today's meeting filing complaints, it threatened everything on the average When I looked at the report, an additional report, because the basics had already been rejected, was not accepted in the National Assembly, because it was inspired not to say complicated, false or otherwise, but from the report it was clear and from the additional report it was clear that you could not have determined the investigator because you were afraid that if you went too far with your slanders, you could have done the damage that could not be corrected; but whether you had lost your own courage in your own appearance in your imperiousness, that you would not hold back what you were holding back. [[...]] [[...]] You didn't make it. The procedure must be followed by order, evidentiary decision, witnesses, examiner and so on. Come on, gentlemen, in the next commission of inquiry, follow the procedure prescribed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u257	Thank you. Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u258	I'll just explain my voice. What I've already said is already said. I'll vote in favour. Good. Now you've confused me. I have heard what is most important today in several places, Croatia and Slovenia, that electricity was more expensive to sell in Austria than Croatians were buying from Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u259	Just Bevk. He's quitting. Silva Nigga. Private Cheligoy. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I'd answer Mr. Janz. Then you tell me what was the loss that was caused, if you know how to calculate it, I said based on time we calculated that there was at least that much loss. But it was higher, I say it was higher, if we were selling profit, we could make more definitely. That's my claim. Mr Grošelj, you remember the budget control committee. The Commission has the right to discuss the Court of Auditors' report as this is also linked to the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. And that's something else that you're explaining, it's not really what you said. The Court of Auditors sent some material to Mr Bajuk, for whom he did not ask at all and so on, and then Mr Bajuk returned it. It was all about that and nothing else. You're saying that the Commission should consider a separate opinion. The Commission does not need to consider a separate opinion, so we have not considered it as necessary. You write a separate opinion and send it directly to the Commission and the Commission simply sends it forward for publication and the Commission does not need to discuss a separate opinion. Why should the Commission adopt a separate opinion? Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Commission does not need to adopt a separate opinion. Mr. Anderlich, the report can't be denied. Look at the rules of procedure and the law, the report cannot be rejected, nor does the investigator need to be determined if the commission does not wish to determine it. Yeah, he didn't take the assembly, and he can't take it. But he can't refuse it, please don't report it, he can only draw conclusions and conclusions. Please read the rules of procedure. You're all talking together. You don't all know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u261	Let's take some more time. Let's keep our nerves calm. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u262	After Mr Anderlich's confused speech, I don't really know what stabbed them. The Congregation for the Republic says that some of us have been written off, we have been there, and we have also discussed here. But I really think that you were confused because there was also a positive hero from the previous investigative commission, and today you represented Zdenko Cerar as your candidate, who was thus blocking this investigation. You wanted to do that in a symbolic way, and now, of course, you're speaking against an investigative commission against an investigative commission institute. You've shown your cards in your previous term. Look, I'm glad that colleague Janc; colleague Kelemina says there's something to know about this, we admit that there's no black and white story here. It seems to him that it is 16 billion, but I think he would sign under 10 billion damages, but I am sure, and I also know that there is huge money turning around in the electricity economy, huge money. And if, in that short time, Mr Türk was able to do so much better work and save the country so much money and put into the state accounts of the multi-monetary, of course, you are nervous, you are nervous, because you know that you are also dependent on this money in the campaign, that it will also come back richly from the electoral campaign and that you will make a lot of use of it. And this nervousness is completely understandable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u263	Janez Petty Officer. We have concluded this part of the debate. Can I close now, or are we gonna go round two? Who else wants to discuss it? I only see one application. Anton Anderlich. Please. Yeah, if you'd listen to me, I'd be getting three applications right now. [[...]] Anderlich, Janc and Rokavec. I'll let you relax a little bit, and then we'll move on. Can I close the debate? I'm closing the debate. In 10 minutes we're gonna ask I'm gonna ask you to discuss it? [[...]] [[...]] Yeah. May I have your attention, please? If you'll excuse me, colleague Kelemin, you've always, always got your word when you wanted. I've got three contestants on the table. If they want, I'll give them my word. My friend Anton Anderlich. Three minutes. You can't let me do a normal job. My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u264	We could, of course, repeat some of the things that have been said several times before the reports that have been delivered by the investigative commissions. But today is really a special day, some special treatment of these reports, because [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, but they know today, Mr. Pukšič, is always today [[..]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u265	I'm asking for peace. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u266	Whether it's morning or evening, it's always today. [[...]] And please, it's always today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u267	I remind you, Comrade Pukšič, because you are making a mess of the meeting. Yeah, that's right. I'm trying them, but don't let me. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, if you'll continue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u268	The emergency situation was created by the fact that, at this hour and at the last meeting, this point was considered. And it's right that, I agree to be treated. It may be an accident to hold the Assembly of the Republic at the same time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u269	I need to ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u270	But you'll take care of it at home. [[..]] I thanked you for the invitation I got. First of all, the National Assembly may adopt or reject the proposals of the conclusions contained in the report of the Commission of Inquiry. When we considered Mr Kelemina's report, the National Assembly rejected his conclusions. He accepted different conclusions. This is according to the rules of procedure, Mr Jerovšek and everyone else. Another time. If this commission of inquiry were to work seriously, it would also have carried out the next phase of the evidence. So I'd name the subjects, as she wrote here, who are allegedly guilty of Anton Rop, Dragon Method, Janez Drnovšek, Robert Golob and so on. She did not carry out the procedure to appoint an investigator on the basis of which she would also question these gentlemen as investigators. Yes, it is, so we have the law and we have the rules of procedure, I'm not lying, gentlemen, we have to read things. Since it is just that and nothing else, it is necessary to identify the subject if you want to accuse people, then it is necessary to identify the subject. In no way can it happen that someone notices that the National Assembly notes that 16 billion holders of public functions, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, are responsible for the economic damage caused. Anton Rop, Dr. Dragon Method, Dr. Tea Petrin, Dr. Robert Golob and so on. The National Assembly cannot establish this because the Commission of Inquiry has failed to do its work, has not appointed an investigator and has, of course, tried to disqualify certain institutions by means of political manoeuvre. For what it's worth, you can think for yourself. I just regret that there has been so much energy invested in the work of this commission of inquiry and that, in the end, there is some belief, some blurring of things, and there can be no result, unless it is simply intended to slander or accuse without grounds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u271	I hope that we will endure these few more minutes and culturally endure this conclusion of today's session. You want to discuss this with your buddy, Rokavec? [[No, no, ……]] Neither does Janc. Can I close the debate now? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll go to the polls in 10 minutes. This is provided for in today's work programme. So we're voting at 12:43. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u272	Your Honor! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - consideration of the 9th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2003. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for recommendations to the Ombudsman's 9th annual report for 2003, recommendations to the Ombudsman's report. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 43 Members and Members voted against 10. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the recommendations proposed have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I inform you that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, we will vote tomorrow, on Thursday, after the end of the last item - today, 15.7.2004, I apologize. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on metrology, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. No amendments were tabled and no amendments could be tabled in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. There is no discrepancy between the two. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the interruption of the 25th item of the agenda - the consideration of the final report of the investigative commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia fully accepts the findings and assessments presented in the conclusions of the final report of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and instructs the competent authorities to examine and act accordingly." We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 56 against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. You know that the first and third amendments have been withdrawn, so we are voting only on the amendment under order number 2 of the candidate Leopold Kremjar. We're voting. There are 61 of us in attendance, 46 votes in favour, 14. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the completion of the final report of the National Assembly of Slovenia in order to establish the responsibility of persons and public authorities with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage in the system of Slovenian electricity. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. I'm putting the first decision to the vote. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Ašić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I did not take the floor because I simply did not think it wise to discuss this report. Of course, I also find at this conclusion that I did the right thing. I think that we have paid too much attention to this and I am actually sorry that colleague Kelemina will not actually get the right attention, but mainly from her own species. Let us count how many of you are in the opposition, which is supposed to support this report in the first place. And tell the truth lovingly that you must admit to yourself that at least this report, Mr Kelemina, who you have dedicated your entire mandate to him, should probably have a complete parliamentary group sitting here, supporting him unanimously, not expecting us to do so on this side. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We move to a vote on the first decision. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 15 votes against 43. [[in favour of a vote of 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the first decision has not been adopted. We're deciding on a different decision. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that this decision has not been adopted either. I'm putting a third decision to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the third decision has not been adopted either. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed today at 10 a.m. Good night and thank you very much.
