ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u1	This is the last day of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. Today, we will have debates and a decision consensually, one for the other, and I ask that you have this in front of your eyes. We will therefore vote against it. Just a minute. Yes, at 4:15 a.m., we'll go to the polls and then we'll vote inconsecutively. Thus, at 10 a.m., we will now begin with a motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture, at 1:30 p.m. on the national drug programme, and pass on to the vote at 4:15 p.m., and then we will have a number of agenda items, where there will be a direct decision on the proposals. First of all, I inform you which colleagues and colleagues are detained due to other obligations and cannot attend this meeting today. These are colleagues of Chebulj, Fabian, Gračner, Horvat, Kangler, Kebrich, Kopušar, after 12 p.m., colleague of Kremžar, after 13 p.m., colleague of Possonceva, will also be absent. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. With us is the Minister of Culture, whom I invite to further explain to the National Assembly the proposal for this resolution. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u2	Nicely greeted. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before us is the final act of adopting a national programme for culture. You are aware that, at the time of its creation, we have put much effort into it, a lot of expertise, a lot of inter-departmental negotiation, and a series of public debates that have taken place at various levels. We have done all of this at the Ministry of Culture in order to reach such a strategic document based on the broadest possible professional consensus. I hope to say that, given the complexity of the area of culture, we have succeeded to the greatest extent possible. I am also convinced of this by the last public presentation of opinions on the motion for a resolution in Parliament. Like all previous public debates on the proposal for a national programme for culture, this presentation was also very qualitative, fruitful, thorough and certainly constructive. From the perspective of the entire document, its structure, methodology and general priority, the document as a whole received unequivocal confirmation. There is no doubt about the necessity, even the inescapability of this first strategic document in the field of culture, which we receive just before integration into the European Union. A broad consensus on a different approach to culture has also been reached at the inter-ministerial, governmental level. The national programme for culture is not a work plan of the Ministry of Culture, but is a government document that binds all government departments and transforms culture into a government category. Thirdly, the debate on the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture on the parliamentary committee on education, culture and sport has shown that all members of the committee, without a vote, support the adoption of the resolution as a whole. This gives me the hope that the national programme for culture, in addition to the professional consensus, will also receive the broadest political consensus, which is, of course, crucial in terms of its implementation, as well as the active monitoring and evaluation of its annual effects, since every year the government has to submit a comprehensive report to Parliament on the implementation of the national programme on culture. The government has identified itself to the amendments tabled by Members before the parliamentary debate. The Government agrees with the three amendments setting out the indicators for the individual objectives entered in the text on the basis of the adoption of the amendments to the Committee on Culture. The Government is committed to establishing both proposed budgetary funds. The Government explained in detail why it does not agree with the creation of a new subsection in the introduction, as it is convinced that the principles of cultural policy are adequately and systematically elaborated in the foreword, in the introduction and in the general priorities of cultural policy. The starting point of the national programme was always based on the leadership that the content should be those requiring the institution, not the other way around. This is why the government does not agree with the establishment of new institutions, but rather with the national programme defines substantive priorities in specific areas of culture. Only these will be the basis for the creation of new institutional arrangements. Nor can the National Programme for Culture provide for a future law on the financing of municipalities. Therefore, the Government does not agree with the amendment concerning the provision of sufficient financial support to public services in municipalities receiving financial compensation. Dear Members! As Minister of Culture and representative of the Government, I firmly claim that the proposed programme is feasible and that I firmly believe that this strategic document is an appropriate basis for the development of Slovenian culture. I am aware that not only its adoption but also its implementation will require the responsible functioning of the government and of the legislative authorities. Slovenian culture deserves such responsible care not only because of its past but primarily because of its future and its constitutional involvement in all times of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. We will now hear a report from the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which is a competent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, my colleague Mojet, to present this report. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, the Minister with her team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a very nice morning greeting! The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth Science and Sport took part in two meetings of the National Programme for Culture. At the 28th meeting, MEPs and Members critically assessed the programme and wanted to know some of the solutions that had not been given, so we decided to hold a public debate on this subject and a decision was taken on this subject where we organised a public debate on the national cultural programme. I must say that this public debate exceeded all expectations as 112 participants participated and there were as many as 35 deliberators. All of these debaters, who were also members of the Member States and interested in the public, have combed the national cultural programme long and wide. Particular attention was paid to the preservation of the Slovenian language and to the desire that the Ministry of Culture be the government's most concerned centre in the state-run regime for this area to be adequately protected. There have also been a lot of words about the book and there is a particular concern here that the book is not only a commercial commodity, but also a national treasure, which needs to be protected in particular in the national programme. Media and audiovisual culture as something fresh in culture have also received great attention, namely, debates to make Slovenia urgently need a diary that will be capable of objective information and accurate value assessments in the field of sociology, culture and policy. Today, these cultural evaluations are so different from the diary to the diary that some objective information cannot be obtained by a person who has been at certain cultural events. The protection of cultural heritage was also under scrutiny, and the idea of establishing a modern art museum arose. In particular, I would like to point out that these public presentations were also attended by representatives of national communities, the Roma community, other minority ethnic communities and immigrants. The Union of Cultural Associations of Constitutional Nations and Nationality of the broken-up SFRY in the Republic of Slovenia does not consent to the bilateral resolution of their cultural orders between the Republic of Slovenia and the newly formed countries of the former Yugoslavia, so they proposed that the resolution should state that Slovenia does not have a comprehensive system of national minority protection, which can be established in a few steps. It is necessary to establish independent institutions where the institutional culture of Italian and Hungarian nationalities can be developed and implemented and where the national community can be a self-founder. A very fresh wind, however, brought the representative of the Roma into this debate, the Association of Roma Slovenia assessing that their situation has improved significantly since 1990 and that they are satisfied with the assistance of the State in the implementation of their cultural programmes. On the basis of the report, which was prepared, there were not many comments at the 29th meeting when we discussed these matters. We acted as a general debate with the resolution in culture and with some amendments that you have written in the report and I would not bother you with this because I believe that you have read all these things to yourself. As the Minister has already said, the Committee, without a vote against and without objection, which has also led to a public presentation of opinions everywhere, was for such a national cultural programme to be adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are no flags here today, not even a handful of flowers, but for the first time since we have our own country, we have adopted a national cultural programme. That's why I won't say too many critical thoughts on the other side. But I would like to say, three times after five hundred years, since our people came here and when we had no politics, no army, no capital, when Trubar started writing catechism, when Linhart started with his lights and so on, and Prešerna Cankara, it was the culture that was the constituent part of the nation. And I think that this is something solemn today and that, doubtless, the adoption of this national cultural programme will help the Ministry of Education, the municipality of Ljubljana manage its disagreement and start building the Academy that Ljubljana will find a place for the Ministry of Culture to include the National Library, you, Mr President, if you allow me two more minutes, and thank you very much for supporting the cultural activity in the National Assembly. We had 11 presentations, almost all of you were present, that you also took the lead in this assembly today. I would also ask you if I could put it to your heart to improve these cultural events that you are leading and speaking or your vice-presidents in the National Assembly. And if you find this trifle to get professional services to fix and tune the piano in the lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Culture. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. They will be given the word of a colleague of Tisovic, a colleague of Bevk, Celigoj, Possonceva, a colleague of Podobnik, Tukjat, Levič and Barovic. First of all, she has the word of a colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please, you have the floor, colleague Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a resolution on the national programme for culture. In view of the fact that we have not yet adopted the National Programme for Culture itself, it is in fact essential that we adopt at least a resolution in this reference to the National Assembly. I believe that much work has been done by the Ministry of Culture in the preparation of the resolution, but we supported the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the New Slovenia Group in order to make a public presentation on the document. We believe that the successful, well-visited and the number of debaters has been great, which certainly has contributed to the improvement of the content of the resolution. Also, on the basis of a significant number of amendments by individual Members or parliamentary groups and a number of amendments created by the mother labour force, we have come up with a better complementary motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture. In the New Slovenia Group, we stress in particular how it is necessary that the Slovenian language has its place in this resolution. Slovenia will become one of its official languages after EU accession. That is why measures are even more necessary to preserve and develop the Slovenian language. We hope that the law on the public use of Slovenian will be passed soon, which is also what our Group believes is necessary. Culture is a good that must be accessible to everyone in one form or another. It is therefore particularly important that accessibility to cultural goods is also possible for those with cheaper wallets and also in urban centres and in rural areas. It is necessary to have more cultural centres, not only in Ljubljana. Above all, such centres are needed in those areas where the Slovenians live. This will enable us to bring our cultural goods closer to them. We also advocate an appropriate emphasis and support for both traditional and modern trends. There is a major problem with the adoption of this resolution, but there are certainly finances. We also find in the New Slovenia Group that there is less money for culture in the national budget each year. Our identity in the European Union depends primarily on ourselves, on our ability, that is, on the dynamics, visibility and vision that we ourselves will have. Europe will not prevent us from doing this, but it will be necessary for us to be interesting and modern partners on the scene of European cooperation. This will also make us more recognizable in the EU, and not only our national symbols, but they will be different or different. Given that our top artists, institutions and institutions are more financially supported, in New Slovenia we are concerned that this could be a serious obstacle to the sovereign competition in the Brussels calls, where our financial resources could be enriched with money from Europe. This should also be taken into account when providing funds for the implementation of the national cultural programme. Otherwise, the New Slovenia Group will not oppose the amendments tabled and will support the updated proposal for a resolution of the National Programme for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much to your colleague Maria Ani Tisovic. He now has the floor of a colleague, Samo Bevk, who will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2004-2007. We have before us a strategic document defining the most important cultural policy objectives, priorities and measures for the development of Slovenian culture for the next four years. At the outset, I should like to point out that we cannot compare this document with the proposal of the National Cultural Programme, which was prepared today in 2000, unfortunately, already the late Minister Rudi Sheligo, because the proposal we have on the table today has a different legal basis. The basis for the adoption of the resolution on the national programme for culture is the new umbrella law on the realization of public interest in culture, which we adopted in the National Assembly at the end of 2002. The government sent a proposal for a programme to the parliamentary procedure last October. The delay in consideration was also due to objective reasons, mainly in the National Assembly. However, a public presentation of the opinions we carried out in January this year also contributed to this, but it was most welcome. Let me say that the nature of both documents, both the bill of lading and the national programme, is a broad and thorough public debate, both in the profession and in the public interest. There were 112 participants only at the public hearing a month ago, and 35 of them contributed to the strategic document of Slovenian cultural policy for the next four years. In its entirety, the document received praise from most of the discussers, and there were also some observations and disagreements. After all, the programme, together with some amendments, also confirmed the parent cultural committee. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this document is ripe for admission, together with amendments supported by the government, among which it has also been complementary, which will consolidate the position of Slovenian original and translational beauty and humanistic creativity, which has been particularly advocated by the society of Slovenian writers in the public debate. The document under consideration has another feature. Its financial framework has already been adopted for half of this period, 2004 and 2005. We regret that, despite the government's adoption of the document last October, the national programme failed to deal with and adopt at the same time as the 2004 and 2005 budgets. This year there are 32 billion and 500 million tolars in the state budget for culture and 33.6 billion tolars for next year. For two years of implementation of the resolution, that is to say, for half the period we have the funds available at the level already adopted by the National Assembly at the end of last year. It has been found that the share of cultural resources in the state budget has declined over the past few years. If we look at it, the largest share in the state budget for culture was intended for the time of Minister Sergio Peljhan in 1995, when it amounted to 2.5% of the state budget. However, it was smaller than last year in 1999, which mainly took place in the ditch of the transfer of public funding to municipalities, which was a failed project and was only remedied by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Last year, this share was 2.07%, but this data can also be very misleading, so it would be useful to do an analysis, because this 2.07% means compared to the whole culture of the state budget. It may well prove that 2,07%, which of course we are not satisfied with, means more than 2.5% nine years ago. It is necessary to know that in the budgets we have been adopting over the past few years, we also have funds from various European funds which were not included in the budgets in the 1990s. Of course, these figures do not contain funds allocated to the municipal budgets and public funds for the operation of RTV Slovenia, which fall within the competence of the cultural ministry. For 2002, total funds for culture, total public funds for culture amounted to just over 60 billion tolars. Thus, culture in Slovenia, as well as in the countries of the European Union, is largely financed from the state budget. Nevertheless, comparisons show that we are lagging behind in the area of donations and sponsorship. Donations to businesses are not interesting, due to the low special relief from the profits of legal persons of only 0.3% and because donors are mostly anonymous. According to the Culture Economy project, 3.74 euros have been earmarked for sponsorship in the European Union countries and between 1.7 and 2 euros have been allocated for sponsorship in Slovenia. In my view, it is now an opportunity for us to create a policy in the tax package that will promote both donations and sponsorship to a greater extent, as this title now brings only 3 to 4% of all cultural resources to culture. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the position of Slovenian culture, it will be essential to move to a better place when we convince the Government and the National Assembly that the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture during the period 2004-2008 is needed to the greatest extent possible. During the period 1998-2003, we only implemented 36.3%. The Cultural Tolar Act for five programming sets for a five-year period, for investment in public institutions, for reconstruction of cultural monuments, for librarianism, for amateur culture and for cultural networks allocates almost 30 billion tolars. The implementation of this law will also depend in many ways on the position that we have in our society devoted to culture and cultural creativity. Regrettably, investment in social activity, in culture, education, science and health, is seen as a mere consumption that has no added effect. But what a mistake. On the contrary. Following the experience of developed European countries, investment in culture and, in particular, in cultural heritage is repeatedly recovered in other areas. They therefore have an extremely multiplier effect on the economy. Thus, investment in culture and the revitalisation of cultural heritage will also be investing in the tourism and economic development of our country as a whole. Today's culture is undeniable in the function of preserving and strengthening the national identity and preserving and developing the Slovenian language, which is particularly important in the time of European integration. What status we will choose in the European Union will also depend on the vitality of our culture. A national cultural programme will also play an important role in this process. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. Comrade Vojko Celigoj will now present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Cheligoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. The well-respected choir! The resolution on the national programme for culture defines cultural policy priorities, objectives and measures over the next four years and thus places culture in our country's space and time. It sets out the priorities set out in the programme of the Ministry of Culture. In the DeSUS Group, we would like only to highlight some of the facts that we will also pay special attention to in our midst, or in our opinion we need comments and comments. We join the opinion that this programme is more lifelike than the previous proposal. However, we hope that it will not remain in the best interests of the ministry and the government to seek to increase the spread of cultural supply. Cultural cohesion can happen quickly in a small market such as Slovenia. After all, money is also crucial in culture for the creation and distribution of money. Therefore, we can easily imagine the concerns of some when it comes to performances, films, books, artistic, radio, television programs and other cultural activities that may not be market-oriented at first sight. We therefore call for more support for the creation of such a culture that will satisfy or at least try to satisfy the greatest possible circle of people, because only cultural pluralism in our opinion allows the diversity of views necessary for the progress of all of us and contributes to raising cultural standards. Cultural pluralism will not be fully possible unless cultural events take place in several cultural centres. Above all, we have in mind those centres that can or even have to become cultural intersections of different cultures. Of course, the functioning of local communities is crucial here. However, given that a good project almost always represents a significant financial contribution, mechanisms must be put in place to allow the country to think not only about the Ministry of Culture but also about the cohesive action of several ministries, and to support culture more than large centres. This, however, is virtually impossible to imagine when we read a resolution from which we can find that all buildings should be built or renovated only in the centre. In doing so, we would say that, when programming, providing defined measures, we should also think about rural human resources, focusing on the policy of scholarship, because we believe that there is a shortage of staff from this area. It would probably also be useful to mention non-governmental organisations, which are, in particular, a strong factor in the development of culture, in many ways, the carrier of almost all the activities of a loving culture within which the organisation, management and activity are fully self-sustaining. A bigger problem arises when a particular cultural event is also needed to finance it. As we can read in the national programme, there will be fewer allocations in non-institutional culture than in recent years. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that culture must not become a domain of elite circles where young creators have difficulty getting their place, so it would be desirable to support more cost-effective civil society, which can be a strong bridge between an individual and a country. We would also touch on the problem of the Slovenian language. We are of the opinion that in primary and secondary schools there is a need to devote particular importance to the language through the search for new, more pleasant forms of treatment only. Moreover, the prices of books, which are a good medium for learning language, seem excessively high. We are particularly concerned about the fact that bookstores also require up to 50% of the book price to offer to potential buyers. Think about it, just because the book is on a bookcase. This makes the book extremely unattractive. The following note concerns the protection of cultural heritage. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the measures and objectives relating to the protection of cultural heritage as defined in the programme. However, we would like to point out that it is necessary to provide professional and financial assistance also for the renovations and repairs of long-term and damaged facilities and other heritage throughout Slovenia. Finally, a small comment. We note that cultural workers spend a large part of their time dealing with various statistics, figures, in short, matters that take up a lot of time, and there is no substantive action. We therefore believe that it is necessary to simplify, simplify, for example, the integration of individual cultural institutions and other institutions in a specific area. It might also be useful to mention the issue of possible tax concessions in a culture likely to provide easier business. On the other hand, there is, of course, a question of control over the resources spent by the Ministry of Culture. It seems that in Slovenia we can afford a very expensive spectacle on the one hand, and on the other hand a cultural institution, as we have heard in the public presentation of opinions, is hardly living. What the actual situation is, it's hard to assess. However, we are interested in how the ministry monitors the flow of tax money. Culture has always played a role in the life of Slovenians. For the people concerned about culture, he will agree that the resolution on the national programme for culture should be adopted. That the guidelines or strategy towards which culture will develop will finally be established. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that these guidelines must be so loose that culture can also adapt flexibly to rapid trends while at the same time being rigorous enough that our objectives do not escape from the road map. Let me stress that culture is not inherited, but conquered and upgraded, again and again in the given space and time, so we are all co-creators of it. Of course, it is up to each individual whether and to what extent he will accept the offer or otherwise, responsibility for the culture of the nation begins with the culture of man. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that it seems that for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia, we will have a national programme for culture, so we will support the Committee's proposal in the hope that it will not be left alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. A colleague, Maria Pozsonec, now has the floor to present the position of the parliamentary group of nationalities. She will be given the word of her colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, good bye to all of you! The National Programme for Culture is a strategic document which, by defining cultural priorities, objectives and measures, provides conditions for the sustainable and integrated development of Slovenian culture as well as national culture. The national programme for culture thus creates a balance between the preservation of Slovenian cultural identity and its development; it provides conditions for the harmonious development of culture in the common Slovenian cultural space, the conditions for raising cultural creativity, the accessibility of cultural goods and creation, and the conditions for the promotion of cultural diversity. Cultural policy will also actively co-form the future regional regime. Well, I'd like to talk about cultural diversity. Just as culture is important for the nation, it is also important for nationality and for national communities. Because it's culture that's the area where the most common expression is national identity. Culture is also an area where national rights are most regulated. For this we can thank the systematic work and the joint work of the Ministry and the national communities. So we have achieved, although we are few and we are not comparable to the larger groups of members of the national community, let's say in Transylvania, but what we create is comparable, and we do not see a difference, for example, in performing on stage in Budapest, between our creators and creators from larger communities. The National Programme for Culture refers to all government strategic documents, in particular the Economic Development Strategy, the State Development Programme, the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia, the Information Society Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Higher Education Programme and others. With the National Programme for Culture, care for the preservation and development of the cultural sector is entrusted to the Government as a whole, so all other ministries are also concerned about its implementation in addition to the Ministry of Culture, which seems to us to be meaningful and sufficient guarantees for culture to have the place it deserves. An important objective of cultural policy is to promote cultural diversity, pluralism, creation and cultural goods. This is one of the objectives set out in Article 51 of the 1997 Amsterdam Treaty, which is based on the idea of European integration, which is also described by UNESCO. The document shall include creative diversity, the openness of cultural policy for other cultures, the international exchange of cultural rights of the national community, the minority community, and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] groups and cultural activities of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] The public interest in culture in the field of the national community, the Roma community and other minority, ethnic communities and immigrants belongs to the activities of cultural institutions whose founders are the central organisations of the national community, publishing activities, library activities, preservation of the mother tongue in the community, activities in all other areas of culture, cultural contacts with their countries, international community cooperation and minorities in the field of culture. And with all these rights, we also live both in the fields of culture, education, information, research and support facilities. However, we would also need some legal basis, for example in the field of librarying and the possibility of establishing a museum collection for national culture, but this resolution makes it easier to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Maria Possonec. Comrade Janez Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Cukjat. First of all, colleague Janez Sponik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers! Allow me to read in the introduction to the presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group on the resolution on the national programme for culture 2004-2007 only two segments of the programme resolution adopted at the Congress of the Slovenian People's Party last November in Rogaška Slatina. The Slovenian People's Party is aware that culture as a nation has preserved us through history. Half-lived development has relativised inherited values and has not created new ones with which everyone can be identified. We are convinced that the only way to deal with cultural policy is to redefine the mission of culture and its role in society. The Slovenian People's Party will seek to establish a system that will support new original creativity and its involvement in global development. The protection of cultural heritage requires a different approach from the former in a single country. We are also convinced that care for the preservation of the Slovenian language is essential for our long-term national survival. In the inter-European dialogue and through national policy measures, we will promote Slovenian national culture, which we see as an indispensable component of European culture and strengthen Slovenian national identity in Europe and beyond. As an indispensable part of national culture and identity, we understand the natural and cultural heritage that proves the extraordinary creativity of generations ahead of us, the traditional involvement in European cultural space, and the important contribution of Slovenia to European culture. We will also be pleased to support the resolution on the national programme for culture in the Slovenian People's Party 2004-2007. It was welcome to make a public presentation of the opinions, since this was an opportunity for Members, the government, cultural creators and the professional public to face this strategic document once again and to face the views and possible amendments to the motion for a resolution. As already mentioned here, when adopting this resolution, it is right to recall the late Rudy Shelig, who was an important co-sponsor of this resolution. This document sets out the most important cultural policy objectives, priorities and measures to achieve this programme. The problem may arise that the financial framework for culture, 31 billion and a half for 2004 and 33.6 billion tolars for 2005 has already been adopted in the budget for 2004 and 2005. In all areas, we adapt legislation to the entry into the European Union and adopt such mechanisms in all areas that they will be adapted to the best possible functioning and within the family of European nations. This is also the case with a culture through which Slovenian people built their national identity throughout history. The pillar of progress and development was and remains Slovenian with a spoken and written word. Multinationalism and multilingualism, where we go, make it important to take care of the Slovenian language as an important task of cultural policy. In the foreword to the resolution, the following paragraph is very well written on this subject: "For Slovenian culture, it is also important to develop Slovenian language. The most important distinguishing sign of the Slovenians as a nation, which differs from the other-speaking neighbours. During the period of the socialist political system, it was culture that could establish the spaces of national freedom, literary journals, writing associations and individual literary works that helped to create a democratic society and a independent state.".. Slovenian culture must be faced with entry into European space as a challenge to protect its particularities, cultural heritage and its own identity. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also find it very important that the resolution focuses on the education of cultural professions, which also provides a more active role for cultural policy in education and a more active role in scholarship policy and, in this context, direct support to creators for the introduction of a new labour grant instrument in all areas. It is also timely and right that the programme focuses on cultural and economic partnerships at several points, in particular by prioritising all those programmes and projects involving the cooperation of the economic sector. When we talk about partnership, we cannot go beyond cooperation between local communities and the country, which must be as good as possible for successful cultural development. The country has, and needs to improve, its obedience to local cultural programmes, as it will only allow for the country's integrated development in the field of culture, which also means that it is necessary to ensure as qualitatively as possible, as mentioned in the programme, the availability of cultural goods, which must not be significantly dependent on the place of residence and not on social factors. When we talk about the accessibility of cultural goods, we cannot pass information in all areas of culture. From the computerization of the library network to the network of multimedia centres, the register of cultural heritage. We are confident that the improvement and finalisation of these cultural accessibility will further increase. In the Slovenian People's Party, we attach particular importance to this resolution, chapter 6, which is briefly called the Book. On the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, we discussed a lot about the amendment to upgrade Goal 7. This is the specific objective of the resolution, which provides for the establishment of a budget fund for library compensation and book support projects. With the amendment mentioned above, this objective would be upgraded by setting up a budget fund for the book. The amendment on the Committee was not adopted, but a slightly revised amendment has now been proposed in the procedure of the Slovenian Liberal Democrats, which also establishes a specific budget fund for this purpose in Objective 7. The government supports him and will also get our support. The resolution also discusses pluralism, cultural and mediaism, both of which are very important principles. With regard to cultural pluralism, we believe that the preservation of traditional cultural heritage also requires the adoption of innovations and awareness of the cultures of minority communities, national communities and participation in international exchanges in these areas. With regard to media pluralism, however, we believe that it is necessary to ensure the openness of the media, the diversity of media content and to provide adequate support to local radio and television programmes. The resolution on page 75 in the Rapporteur on measures to promote and maintain media pluralism also established the establishment of the Media Fund of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a vote on the working body between the measures under the fifth indent. And this decision, in our view, was correct. Now we were surprised to learn that the LDS Club proposed an amendment to Chapter 5, Objectives and actions in specific areas of culture, media and audiovisual culture. The amendment proposes to delete the fifth indent - and this is obviously the "establishment of the media fund of the Republic of Slovenia" - by arguing that the establishment of the fund is not sufficiently developed and that it does not follow the adoption of media legislation. Of course, we will not support this amendment, and we are pleased that the government does not support it or disagrees with it. The argument for this amendment should be that it is not followed by the adoption of media legislation. On the other hand, it must be said that there is already a specific law in the government procedure that would complement the existing media law and establish and very well define the media budget fund's powers, operation, control and so on. So the argument that the establishment of the Fund is not sufficiently developed and that it does not follow the adoption of media legislation does not convince us. Because resolution is exactly the kind of document that you can write some direction into, and then you build it up in law. We hope that the National Assembly will reject this argument and will not support this amendment. From the outset, I was talking about building a national identity with the help of culture and language. Slovenia will soon enter the premises of European nations. By protecting and preserving cultural heritage, developing culture and language, we will be recognized in this space. Besides the recognition in the world, these must be elements that will connect not only those living in the territory of Slovenia, but also those of the Slovenians who live in the place and in the world. This is our last argument and the reason why we will support the proposed resolution. We believe that the resolution is also the fruit of the good work of the competent authority and of the various expert groups that have helped. As it is said, they had a good draft team that was active in the previous cultural sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. I now give the floor to my colleague Tsukati, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The resolution on the national programme for culture is ahead. Something in this resolution, although it has a lot of good and positive, which we support, is still missing. There is a lack of definition of national interest in culture. What is this, in fact, a national interest? Is this the largest number of museums, galleries, libraries and theatres? Or the number of books published and films recorded? Or perhaps the number of readers, listeners? It is somehow understood by the National Programme for Culture, which is now being adopted in the National Assembly. But why museums and galleries, why art and own Slovenian production of audiovisual works? Why folk theaters, choirs, folklore groups and other amateur activities? Are they really their own purpose? No, definitely not. The country can only be interested in all of this as a means of achieving the objective of achieving national interest in the field of culture. But if the national interest is only in as many books as possible, then print them to break all policies, all libraries in Slovenia and its goal will be achieved. If it's in as many viewers as possible, then instead of Traviate, let's bring it to the opera of a Ukrainian stripper. It'll be cheaper and more effective. And if the goal of culture is just to fill free time, then it is more convenient to model disco clubs. So what is the national interest? The ultimate goal in culture? The national programme does not answer this question. But the agreement depends on which valuable place we will place Slovenian culture. The answer depends on how much attention and, of course, money we devote to it. The answer depends on whether or not we will further reduce the budget allocated to culture in the coming years. A clear definition of national interest means the design of the entire national programme and all cultural activities. And cultural politicians are compasses, a landmark of decision-making. Surely we will not ask ourselves in every exhibition of works of art about the pursuit of national interest and the ultimate goal of Slovenian culture. But each company is sooner or later on a value crossing. And if politics doesn't have a compass then, its decisions can be wrong. In the area of health, we know what the national interest is, the first and final objective of health policy. This is health, both of the people and of the individual, both physical and mental health. In short, the flawless functioning of the biological system, which ensures the biological quality of life. In the field of education too, it is more or less clear what the national interest is. To educate citizens means to train them to solve the mathematical, chemical, linguistic, visual and other issues that a person encounters in a professional life. This is what our school system is trying to do, especially by accumulation of factual knowledge and less by cultivating initiative, ingenuity and joy of work. Almost nothing in the current school system has trained us to solve those questions that we are carrying within us and are sooner or later breaking into human consciousness because they are relentlessly demanding an answer. It is about evaluating your own self, about the moral-ethic dilemmas in society, about the design of life, about questions that are more important than the external issues that the professional environment raises in front of a person. In the field of culture, a void has been revealed in transition. Since culture is no longer in the service of the revolutionary objectives of raising awareness of proletariat, the question of its meaning or how to redefine national interest in culture is again raised. It is this newly defined objective of Slovenian culture that should become the core of the national programme for culture. The starting point of the principles of Slovenian cultural policy. But since the government proposal for a national programme does not contain this objective, these principles of cultural policy, we have tried to fill this gap with a chapter which, among other things, summarises the essential elements of the national cultural programme, as designed by the late Rudy Sheligo with a group of cultural people. First principle. Culture offers both an individual and a nation a higher quality of life. Every artist, whether a painter or a composer, a playwright or a poet, reveals to us the reality of his work as he experiences it himself. This helps us to get to know the world and its past, our own nation, and the man we work with. Like other people, we finally get to know ourselves through the works of art. The artist is also human, and his knowledge and experiences are human, that is, ours. Culture is essentially the transfer of knowledge and experiences. It lives and flourishes only in communication between peoples and nations. Thus, culture is finally the force that contributes significantly to human relations and to the transformation of the masses of people into human society. This is for a higher quality of stay and cohabitation. Second principle. Politics must respect the freedom of cultural creation, which is followed by cultural pluralism. Above all, in its creative dimension, the culture unwittingly interferes with the spiritual depths of man, and often cannot remain seemingly hazy, undetermined. However, whenever politics had a governmental impact on this area and the culture imposed visual, ideological, or merely aesthetic and stylistic molds, it was fatally stifling cultural creativity. Third principle. The involvement of the State in the organisation of cultural activities must be selectively retained. A highly standardised activity, which can be clearly planned, should continue to be fully cared for by the State with public service or through the award of concessions, but an activity based on highly predictable creativity and its intervention requires a high degree of autonomy where operators also take a high level of risk. Public service funding, public institutions should be gradually amended. Instead of administrative funding for existing capacities, we would need funding for the multi-annual programmes adopted, which requires a higher professionalisation of work and a more responsive organisation of public services. Such funding would also require State control over the implementation of the adopted programme. The fourth principle, the lovemaking activity has been a valuable and irreplaceable complement to professional cultural activities. Lover culture acts in its environment as a pooling force and as a major factor in the dissemination of cultural education and education. Often, this activity is the only activity that enables young beginners to enter into action because it is a lovemaking, non-institutional, experimental activity, difficult to measure, unnormalised and can therefore only be funded by project. The financing of this cultural activity would therefore be subject to transfer as much as possible to the Funds. The fifth principle, the cultural identity of the Slovenian people is threatened and it is primarily the responsibility of the country to preserve it. A foreign mass culture that penetrates the life of the younger population, which remains at the level of aesthetic and socially effective entertainment, the service of uniting patterns of social behaviour, the feeling of association at a level that is useless or even harmful to cultural identity. The pressure of foreign supply, particularly of the US, cannot be prevented, but we can limit this offer and at least partially neutralize its effects with greater concern for improving technical and material capacity, film production for the implementation of domestic film and other audio-visual projects. And the sixth principle is that in evaluating individual cultural programmes and projects, cultural policy must not be left to value relativism. It must be able to distinguish between art, aesthetics and spine, between confessional power and substantive inexpressibility, between genuine response and populism of the entertainment industry. Cultural policy must follow the clearest possible criteria for quality that are formulated within civil society and can be checked by the professional public. Among these criteria, however, the most important requirement is the spiritual and aesthetic weight of cultural works, their socio-moral efficiency and formal knowledge. And again, we are at the first and last objective of cultural activity, in the national interest in culture: this is learning the truth about ourselves and others, the truth about man and his history, the experience of his own and his own national identity, the humanity of human relations, that is, the higher quality of human life. Unfortunately, however, the amendment we have proposed does not agree in any way with the government. It claims that all these principles are already contained in the text. However, even after repeated reading, only one or more of them can be identified in the government text. Other principles, though, are not heard of by the spirit or by the spirit. There remains a void that may also reflect our cultural and cultural policies in some way, as the late Rudy Sheligo would call it. We'll talk about individual amendments later. Let me mention two here, which will probably lead to quite a debate. First of all, the LDS amendment to Chapter 6, "book", where the 7th objective adds "co-financing of book and magazine programmes and support for projects for the international application of Slovenian literature" and provides that the budget fund should not be less than the amount of money collected from VAT per book for the previous year. We are very supportive of this amendment. We believe that it is filling the gap created at the time of the adoption of the other amendments, and I hope that it will be adopted. Another amendment would also mention the LDS amendment, which abolishes the Republic of Slovenia media fund. Gentlemen, in the field of industry, we have finally realized how important it is to ensure competitiveness and to prevent a monopoly. It's the monopoly that kills the area, kills those values that the free market and democracy bring. Also in the area of people's ideas and indoctrination, it is necessary to ensure competitiveness and to prevent a monopoly. Therefore, the amendment, which removes the already agreed agreement that the media fund of the Republic of Slovenia is to be classified as an indent in this chapter, is at least, as I would say, unstated. This is an amendment which, of course, we will not support, and I hope that LDS will not support it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Mr Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. You have the floor, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. At the threshold of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, when culture is one of the most important indicators of the identity of the Slovenian people, we adopt a national programme for culture. This will identify guidelines and indicate the development of culture in our country and show the priorities and areas to which we will give special attention over the next four years. We were able to hear very different views and opinions on this basic document for Slovenian culture from the debates on the Committee as well as from the public presentation of the opinions. We agree that the national programme for culture is urgently needed, although we have also heard a lot of comments and criticism. Every opinion is important if it helps to create a better proposal for the protection and development of culture in Slovenia. As in other areas, the highest number of comments in culture is on the financing of cultural institutions and areas, since, as elsewhere, there are not as many resources in culture as we would like them to be able to implement all programmes and achieve just all the objectives set. We believe that the proposals submitted have been good and will contribute to the development of culture in Slovenia. All areas of culture deserve their place in the national programme and the envisaged strategy for its development. One of the most important is the preservation of the Slovenian language. It seems that we have only recently been aware of the importance of our language, its preservation and its development. Catastrophe data on the functional illiteracy of Slovenians, on the level of reading culture, on accessibility to books. We recently adopted a law on the public use of Slovenian language in the National Assembly, where the use of Slovenian will be defined at least in public institutions. This is a small step that we hope will have a positive impact in the future on the development and preservation of Slovenian in the flood of European languages. Special emphasis should be placed on the strategy of increasing the promotion of young creators by means of a work scholarship programme. They would provide conditions for the creativity of an individual, as it was the lack of financial incentives for young people, talented artists who turned away from creating them at home and decided to create abroad where there is more obedience to young artists, or decided to study in other activities where obtaining employment is easier. This must be the most lost Slovenian culture. We hope that the implementation of the national programme for culture will also halt and help to improve the state of culture and to promote Slovenian culture in the wider European area to which we enter. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the resolution on the national programme for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. We will conclude our views by presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. My friend Jelinčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a nice, good day! However, the national programme for culture is ahead of us - the last moment before the elections, so many would think, among other things, we in the Slovenian National Party, that it is a pre-election stew when it is necessary to show that we have only done something. For in the area of culture, in the last term, there was very little, very little, largely almost nothing. But we can do it in one order or another. When the national programme discusses the promotion of cultural diversity - what have we achieved in promoting cultural diversity? Only that all marginal groups received financial resources for their operations, which was nothing. Around the world, certain things are financed in this way: when they turn out to be good, they get a grant. But not before that money was spent, and eventually the ministry somehow pushed under the rug those millions spent out of which there was nothing. The national programme, which of course is needed - and this national programme, which we have ahead of us, is just a fence and nothing more, will have to be completed and completed, but one of the most important issues is missing in this national programme; this is how to obtain financial resources, how to make it easier for those good artists to survive. How to fill the national institutions with a moving cultural heritage that runs across our borders again? It will run even further as we enter Europe, because Slovenian cultural heritage has long been not only a Slovenian cultural heritage, but it is a European cultural heritage or a global cultural heritage. And those good things that are good in Slovenia are happy to be included in collections of galleries, museums and similar institutions in Berlin, London, New York, Washington, Moscow, anywhere. We don't have a hearing for these things. But we do have, say, a listening ear for what's called film art, which I call "film industry." The film is an industry and the film must live itself. We are one of the few who have some kind of film fund to promote Slovenian language. And then we go to see and see that in those films, mostly funded by the film fund, there are six viewers sitting in there, because they're designed to make gentlemen directors and screenwriters spend their financial resources to "bubble" their pockets and then it doesn't matter anymore. The film goes to the bunker, it is watched once, maybe twice, at the festival in Slovenia and then nothing more. And if we look at which films get prizes; these are the ones that have been recorded outside the budget with funding from donors and people who have gathered and given money. Let's see what kind of award a movie has won, and we'll see. Because film makers are very happy to say when the award is won, but I made a film without the finance of the Ministry of Culture. Come in. We have a book question. What did the Ministry do about the book? It has been achieved that merchants, merchants, are getting rich. When someone issues the book, the trader collects about 60% of the margin for taking the book to the shelf and then selling it there or not. 60%. The Ministry didn't do anything. And if it's a concern for Slovenian language to make a profit to resellers, it's a shame. I think my colleague Partljič will be able to present himself on the cases of certain poets and writers who could buy a house for the release of their book, but that was in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Today they're building houses and palaces for drug dealers. We do have quite a few in Slovenia that close the press so they don't publish books anymore because they don't think they need to. And then they blackmail the writers of the books, "Yeah, 400 grand I'll give you...", that's what an important Slovenian writer told me. 450 thousand received a fee for the book, 450 thousand Slovenian tolars, which is less than 2,000 euros. The Ministry of Culture, however, encourages drug dealers who, by printing the book, then withdraw 60% of their earnings from it and put it in their pocket. However, in order to help the Ministry by requiring the Ministry of Finance to arrange in tax legislation reliefs for those institutions, companies and legal entities, as well as natural persons who provide a matter to a national institution in order to avoid this on a tax basis - no, but no. And here we are again at the bottom of the scale in Europe. Then it's no wonder if our institutions say, you know what, we'd rather give it to a football club, it's more visible there, and it's more known and so on, and we can put that away. If we give any museums some kind of collection, we'll just pay upstairs. And I say, for example, Macedonia, where there is a national bank that has no money and yet has given 200 000 euros for the purchases of its own cultural heritage. Macedonia! We know what the economic situation is. Nothing with us. Control is also one of the issues that specifically relate to this tax legislation or to the use of finance. The Ministry of Culture has no control over where the finances go. The money is being spent and then hopes that something will be done, but no one has ever had to submit a bill, where he gave the money and why he didn't do anything with that money. I'm not going back to the translation of the Koran, for which the student press has already received 3.5 million tolars, they didn't panic. They were just waiting for 3.5 million more and another three million and a half, so about nine times, ten times. And then there'd be nothing. If we go further or further back, we can also look back at the opera and ballet. At a low level, such as the opera house and ballet house in Ljubljana today, it has not yet been. It's a total mess. And on top of the well-intentioned suggestion to the minister to do something in this area, to replace incompetent people, nothing has been done - nothing. And it's a mess. The Administrative Court has ruled as some of us have warned it will. No, it's done on a political, party line; it's put up by directors in Oprah, put directors in Philharmonic - and what do we have? Nothing: bad program, empty halls, empty cash register. And a whole bunch of people who are dissatisfied, who can't perform. On the other hand, both in Opera and in drama theatres, we have a whole range of people who receive wages, sit at home and make commercials. That's the most they do, and they get an extra payment for that. There's nothing arranged here either. As far as museums are concerned, it's terrible. There's a national museum. National Museum, one of the poorest institutions in Slovenia. And yet, when it's necessary for certain things not to go over the border, there's still no money for redemption. No! No! There's no problem I don't know what -- right there on the Metelkova -- what kind of socializing some semi-drug jumpers out there or what they do, who are banging their heads, and they're painting themselves -- I mean, with colors, they're coloring and then they're running around. And that's supposed to be art, where you can get money. Not for anything else. Now it's interesting, I'll show you. Yesterday someone from Zagreb brought me, offered to buy back Slovenian cultural heritage - original drawings of Bozidar Jac, designs for making brands and similar and unique first prints of certain brands, brands that have never been issued and so on. The originals, please! I'm showing photos here, too. In Zagreb! And this matter, this legacy of Christmas Eve, Jacque, has been informed that it must be redeemed. Madam Secretary knew about it, but she didn't do anything. And now private people will have to buy Slovenian cultural heritage abroad and bring it here in order to have it here in Slovenia. Embarrassing, embarrassing. They stole Petkovsk's painting right there from the gallery. This painting was also offered for three thousand marks in Croatia. The minister didn't think it was worth giving three thousand marks, and she would get her cultural value back. So she was warned about it. What national program, please? What concern for cultural values? It's just protecting your own position where it is - and that's it. And now something has to be done before the elections. Why didn't we get a national programme right at the beginning of the mandate? Why didn't we get him? The national programme drawn up by Mr Sheligo at the time, on which this programme is also largely based, had already been prepared. But it was thought, because it's still three years we can sleep, three years we can do what we want, the last year or the last few months, six months before the elections, we'll put out a program and we'll boast: we've done a national programme for culture. Nothing's done, it's badly done, it's horribly badly done! Money is being spent, and yesterday we heard on TV that there are 24 individual contracts on RTV and, in fact, the Ministry of Culture is funding everything. I wonder who got what percentages to give individual contracts like that, and what came of that? As we know, television has a worse program from day to day: it has no cultural program, it has no educational program, if there is one of the most educational programs that Ljubljana TV has, is some weak Spanish follow-up or something similar in Slovenian language, when we watch Vrtačarje, but I don't know what else. Great cultural goods, please! I want to know which country they're going in. As I know, nowhere. But we don't respect our own cultural heritage. In Maribor, the Ministry of Culture allowed the protected house, the Maribor prisons, to provide glass construction or steel construction with glass plates, and that is all right. If a farmer wants to fix his window, some cultural protectors immediately fly in and don't let him do a little of his own way. No, not there! But in Maribor, where there is a large building where interests are different, where financial cakes are likely to be cut differently, but there can be. Very strange, I mean, terrible. In short, a resolution is needed. We will support her in spite of everything, because there is something to have and it is better than nothing. Because this is just the beginning, the work is just beginning. But to a large extent, this resolution is sand in the eyes, because in the way that it is now being done in the Ministry of Culture, I do not think we are going to get far. And we will be looking at the Slovenian cultural heritage of this period, as well as previous periods, at what remains at home. As we look at excavations from the Bronze Age in Austrian, German or English museums - the most beautiful collections are made from Slovenian excavations. And it looks like we're gonna go out and watch this. Also, say, Jakè's masterpieces, because some do not love or want to save Slovenian cultural heritage because they care because they are enough to go to different events and that there are different actors and filmmakers around them and then they are happy how good they are and how important they are and so on. It's so fucking sad, it's all so fucking sad! So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. By presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we have concluded a presentation of the views of all parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a full debate on the motion for a resolution. The list is quite extensive. We will begin with colleague Maria Ani Tisovic, who is cancelling the debate. Does he want the word "Jereco Frostel"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then let's move on. Dr. Miha Brace. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, I won't wait 'cause I'm gonna point out more than once that there's peace in the hall. Please. Dr. Miha Brac? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Levich? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u22	Let me first correct the poorly informed Victory of Jelinčič: Slovenian film had [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u23	Just a moment, please. I called you to your word, Mrs. Jerca Mrzel. My colleague, Shirtz, has the floor. I ask many times for peace in the hall, because it disturbs those who speak, yet there is no peace. I'll give you my word, but now she has the word of a colleague of Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u24	The Slovenian film also had 120,000 viewers in 2003, which goes far beyond some of America’s greatest performances. He also had 60,000 viewers, compared with the ratings of some Slovenian films, including those where Mr. Zmago Jelinčič participated as a pyrotechnic, which had only 1,000 viewers, and received awards in the framework of Slovenian co-production projects Felix, Oskar. The spare parts have more than 40 awards on an international scale, participated in Slovenian film in the last few years in Berlin, Cannes, Venice and was also awarded. It is right that the relevant data comes, but I know that they are irrelevant and always tending. However, I would like to speak in the part where, in general, the national programme, I would like to stress that the national programme has, in general, entered into a mythical conflict in recent years as a mythical point to resolve alleged cultural unrest. I think this kind of mythology came about when he was expected too much and it was projected too much. His long absence also served as an even greater object of desire and for even greater projection of desire. While it should be noted that there were always new needs at that time, the elderly did not rest and, in some ways, the desire for some systematisation and, after some strategy, was increasing. Above all, this myth began to be established when, at the beginning of the 1990s, a law was passed on the realization of public interest in the field of culture and, at that time, it was not clear to the drafters of the law what must be answered in the field of culture, or even many of them were not yet aware of the answer. And so they put all the open dilemmas into the national cultural programme. It is also true that all of these opposite strangers, which were then launched, were saved from the background and were saved by culture itself either by sectoral legislation - not only on the cultural level, but in the area of culture, but in the field of all the departments. I'm talking about labour legislation, I'm talking about, of course, the annual budget, and I'm also talking about those laws that have created a strategy and responses to intraculturalism itself; from the law of public interest, the protection of intellectual property, the law on film, the media, librarianism, the financing of municipalities, etc. In this sense, this time the NPK, not the NKP, which is ahead of us, is a mixture of a desire for strategy and concrete action. Most of the measures are based on legislation already adopted, the problem is that it is subordinated to certain places but not sufficiently upgraded. Therefore, the strategy remains smaller or at a more eloquent level. For I am thinking - and I am certainly not the only one - that this is a national programme for over-anticipation, because it is not a national programme in which the majority can be identified and, of course, taken for their own. The declarant program, however, can soon be poured into non-binding paper, which can promise enormously in its rich plans and returns little. But what does the NPK promise without having a truly designed strategy and projection or strong enough internal foundations to come out of a sufficiently objective analysis? The NPK states, for example, that cultural policy will actively participate in the formulation of a future regional regime, but the problem is that it does not have a regionalisation and decentralisation compass. It does not suggest good enough and precise networks, does not divide national and local levels and does not leave the institution's relationship to judgment, leaves it too much to be judged by the individual ministry or its political option - regardless of which we may think in the future. The national programme speaks of a stimulating tax policy in one sentence. It talks about facilitations that are supposed to encourage investment in culture, but at the same time we do not feel or recognize the current tax policy and legislation of this stimulus. Indeed, it has not yet been adopted, but it is true that in certain places it is a matter of proposals such as are committed and of solutions that are worse than before. The effort that has taken place, for example, on the issue of copyright fees, is not a compromise solution, it does not cover all professions that could be included in the area of wider cultural perception, or at least those that the Ministry covers - if I may say so, already journalists, who could also be covered by this legislation when it comes to the treatment of copyright fees. In general, they are in their delicate situation, where employment is always worse. The national programme is based on the foundations that it has largely defined and drafted by the law on the so-called cultural tolar, and is consistently summarized here - it is true - but not even 20% or about 20% of its framework is reflected in a table that is no longer part of the national programme as an additional annex as it was in the draft, which means that this table, which actually means an annual budget, can be understood - and, of course, the programme is too fictitious. Of course, such a program can be a good promoter of the ministry itself, but it is also an uncertain passport for cultural people themselves. I will not go into any particular area, we have discussed this very much, I can only mention that I am very sorry that the concept of understanding cultural policy has not been extended to understanding the cultivation of space, that is to say that it has not taken into account the landscape architecture, planning and respect for landscape design; that is, it has somehow ghettoized this area into another area - too strong and I hope that in life itself and in the very measures within life this sphere will gain its place. The problem that I am experiencing is also that most of the individual areas of visual, music and other production are involved in over-performance, that it is designed, as it used to be five years old, when percentages of the targets were set, and that in some specific areas they are even limited or, with this efficiency, they will be discriminatory to others who, for example, will not be able to follow some percentages as indicated by the programme itself. I can also draw attention to a major problem that will arise when new labour legislation is also introduced within cultural policy, which is not actually projected in this programme. At a time when intellectual professions like those of appropriate value to other professions will begin to be respected, which also means adequate starting calculations for wages, in order to implement consistently those principles that talk about alternative, additional accounts for fixed-term employment.And that the whole budget projection, which is actually the basis of this NPC in the background, will break down that part that assumes that also wage policy in this area will be improved and that it will not reflect as shamefully as it is now that at least partially clear wages within the public sector are extremely underestimated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u25	I'm a colleague of Jerica Frostel's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear people. Today is a solemn day for me. I welcome the National Programme for Culture. Perhaps few are aware of its importance, despite the comments and amendments we will hear and the comments we have already heard - it is necessary and will have to be reconsidered - I am convinced that the national programme is in principle good and especially necessary. Hello, Madam Minister, I didn't say hello earlier. I'll speak in principle. The Slovenians, who are descendants of various influences and pressures in this transitive and transitory territory, can of course boast of culture, because it brought us together through the most difficult times of history, from the first whistle 40,000 years before our count to the first printed books, each of which was a pair of oxen, which today would mean, one car - people have picked up everything. All these books were, of course, burned, but yet this nation kept the language, this common vessel in which the nation lives, as our colleague Yaša Złobec once said, if I am not mistaken. At the time of official German, Latin, and Italian speaking, only in fourth place was the Slovenian language of farmers and small craftsmen, yet the magnificent Prešeren rose. When it comes to the bravorosity of poetry, a piece of every poet in the world whose confessional love for fellow humans, people and humanity, when it comes to justice and honesty, cannot be compared in the literature of the world. In fact, they burned everything except the poetry collection and buried it behind the wall, so that the Slovenians would still forget it. His second obituary in Slovenian was written to him, first to his friend Chop. The Levtics were shouted, "Let the dog die!", Cankar was destroyed at the beginning of the last century by the poetry collection, as you know, and Cankar was the one who wrote, "The nation that suffered and oppressed three times for 500 years, our nation, who fought with its blood and its tears, has created its own culture despite slavery and poverty, despite hunger and thirst." He also said to Cankar, "The richer are the other languages, they also say they are more soft and ready for everyday use, or the Slovenian word is the word of holiday, screaming and singing. From the earth itself springs like a midnight knock and the stars sing when they appear in the sky, etc.... so I don't talk too long. You can read that too, and I'll tell you one more time. The time continued with the Slovenian cultural question and in the most difficult time of the struggle for freedom was the culture of maintenance in the severe winters and in the blood. They were printing, and Prešeren's book was printed, and our biggest cultural holiday was declared, unfortunately on February 8th, but not December 3rd, but because the offensives were there at the time - because few people know that, so I say that. There was a theater, there were poets and writers, most of our brigades were named after poets, and people fought under the password, Prešern's motto: "The less terrible night was hidden in the black earth when the slave days were under the bright sun." And a poet bled out and said, "We'd be exhaled if we didn't suffer with our heads held up." And it could have been listed. After the war, publications were made, and a good film was made. It wasn't like Jakobus Gallus, who we all know and who had to go out and almost don't recognize him as Slovenian. He was Hugo Wolf, who they don't have anymore for the Slovenian because he had to go out because he wasn't given here to work. Anton Azhbe was outside, as we know we're not talking about Grohar, and someone earlier talked about choking creativity. The peacock was ordered frescoes in the Trnov church. He started working them and got interrupted because they didn't like them. Today we could have a Grohar in a thorny church, and we don't have him. This is the choking that some people are talking about, and I have to respond to it. In short, it was modern art and cultural after the war, and I have to say this - because time haunts us - that it pays to invest in art. Yes, even U.S. research, because you know that capitalism is the worst, they know that it's worth investing in culture, and they could tell you about it. There is something to point out: of course, artistic work is not free and we must all be aware of it in order. Mr Rop, also Minister Petrinova, also Mr Maramor, etc. They can be found in our loop society, how we'll take care of the creator. 'Cause how much work is it before a ballet boy can dance on stage? How much work is there before -- I can tell you an anecdotes -- when someone took a photo of a German emperor for 14 days, then gave him an account and said, "What kind of money is that for 14 days?" And he said, "Yeah, and 14 days all my life." What would you say about Mrs Marijana Lipovšek - ask her how long she has studied and worked. What would you say about Mrs. Irene Grafenauer etc.? How much time has been invested and if we paid for it, we'd know how to pay the culture and find the money for it. So I stress that there will have to be a little more money in culture, because from our independence forward, unfortunately, when we reach our goals, the money for culture is shrinking and does not increase. But it's not our minister's fault, it's our society and politics. In the end, I think it is important to stress the construction of the NUK. I think that the lives of young creators who come into these professions, who have no more fees or salaries, need to be stressed, no longer have permanent jobs. Everyone around, money dealers, everyone around - the organizers in theatres, especially those I know best - have permanent wages, have regular wages, can take credit. Artists can't get them! And I don't know how they're going to live. And I must stress this concern for young people, I must stress. We went to various referendums, but we didn't go to a referendum to live in capitalism, in the way it is now. It will be necessary to find such traps as we together will survive this small nation in this great world, with this great culture. I mean, I hope and I believe that at this time we will also find loops, how we will reward sponsors, how we will find money for young people who are creative, because creativity must be supported and creative people must survive. In the end, I'd like to point out the construction of the academy. This idea is fantastic to build three academies together and, of course, this academy must be in Ljubljana. I'm so sorry, I could explain why, but now is not the time. In the end, let me -- I don't know how long I've been talking -- Ervin Fritz wrote this song: "We who lie with our fathers, all of John's with the French and Pepi, lie with our fathers. Our sons will only be able to sell their minds to the world, gray matter. We can't make them rich with the others. We're sick, there's a whole nation here, and only three of them know Latin, five of them know Scripture, six build skyscrapers. You hit three poets, and no one can translate any more in German rhymes. Whatever you're counting on to be a small nation, it means there are no people. Our legacy is a thousand years old. The poor farmers have packed their cigars with their poverty all the way to us. We're supposed to drag the gift-rich forward. Such a small nation does not breathe, does not live on its own, but only on a precise plan." So let us conclude: we will all work, we will all rule, we will all know at any moment what we must give to the families behind us - this is our kind talk, our history and all that is necessary for it. Our greeting will be: for the next millennium in Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague of Jerca Frostel. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate that is and will take place shows that the cultural identity of the nation is a very pressing problem, which we are talking about unfortunately too late, but it is right that we are talking. And just as a fellow Member said, Mr Victory Jelinčič: we will support him because it is good to have him - but unfortunately late. I got a comparison with yesterday when we were talking about what kind of quota in some sex law was supposed to be written somewhere and so on. I also get a comparison today, and I say: Slovenian language and Slovenian culture is and must remain in the heart of Slovenia, not on paper. If we maintain this consciousness - it is right that we have a national culture programme, it is right that we have a law on the use of the Slovenian language - right! But if we don't have this in our hearts, no law and no resolution, no national programme will help us. It is a strategic document that highlights Slovenian cultural autonomy, which is still needed when we join one nation that will count 450 million people. In doing so, I stress what I once said: Slovenia will not be competitive in the cultural field in Europe and in the world, especially in Europe, but will finally show the large auditorium what it has. I am sure that all the rich cultural heritage of the rich cultural neighbours of Austria, Hungary is a consequence of Slovenian cultural heritage. The Austro-Hungarian State has become rich in the cultural field with Slovenians and not vice versa, I am proud of that. Among all the problems and problems listed in this programme, I would like to highlight only one thing: me and my rhetorical or verbal ability, but I speak for myself, it was given to me by the book. I respect all the types of art listed in the national cultural programme, but I regret that the emphasis on the book, on the book, on the writing of the Slovenian word is too small. I'd like to set up a public book fund, I'd like to. And I'm asking the Minister to remember those words and to do what he can and will do in this area. It's an unfair tax issue. Once we have to pour clean wine, if we are talking about tax reliefs in one, another or third area, we will also have to make adjustments to tax policy in the cultural field; one that will stimulate Slovenian culture and Slovenian language, the development of Slovenian nationality, which has always been through culture, but I do not know what other area. There's something else I'd like to say. I am sorry to read the amendments to the resolution on national culture. I'm sorry. It means that we have once again politicised something that, in my personal opinion, we should not have; it means that we have different political views on what we are actually proud of and what we should be proud of. It means that the national cultural programme, if we go to the amendment, is bad and allows political interference and because it allows us to collect or collect political points - I will not say now in a third person - everyone. That's not good. And finally, the point is, culture is a national identity, not a productive identity. And he still holds what was once said, the national cultural programme will never be so appropriate to everyone. Will it be suitable for most - Slovenians and lovers of Slovenian culture and Slovenian language?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. My fellow Master Petty Officer now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u30	So, Slovenians give much to their culture, and in the identity of this country and the creation of the country, culture and cultural creators have played a key role. That is why I think, and we are all likely to be aware of this at the turning events - even of what is now, culture will play an important role, as well as for the future. At such times, however, it is also a test when there is at least a mental danger of drowning in the steam pot of European nations and European cultures in order for smaller cultures to become Slovenian culture. However, it is up to us how we will represent it, how we will present it, how we will sell it in this space, and how we will protect it. If we behave recklessly, of course it won't be any of this. I am not afraid because we have enough cultural creators, whether we adopt this resolution or not. What, of course, will not affect this continuity and strength, the eruption of cultural creators. We talk a lot about what's actually going on in this culture, about how I'm experiencing it, and I'm not much of a knower. However, how I feel that it is often sold for diversity, in fact, some marginal culture, which we hardly call a culture at all; that it is magnified, that I see the rich one, which is indisputable, trying to get somewhere to rob. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u31	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u32	That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. How? So, regardless of this programme, which is set up, this issue will continue All, the practice that appears in individual laws and touches culture, these are budgetary resources and so on, and the real reality builds more or less on the old principle that the most beautiful pearl is born at the injured place of the shell. [[...]] Or: good poetry constructions will be born with an empty stomach. This cannot be a message for modern times or a pretext, but something else. However, when we talked about value added tax, after all this we cannot get rid of the impression that it is going in this direction because there is no willingness. You say that European standards and directives do not allow these matters. Be careful, the French are trying to bring this in, this is an experiment, and this is a French culture, which is not something smaller in the European space, but it is dominant. Why not come from cultures, from nations that are less represented, where it is much more justified? Why aren't we more thorough here? However, we are shaping, we will create a European space. Now we have been able to follow this because we had to adapt, adapt, so that this society of nations, the society of countries, "leaving us down" - under the slogan. But from now on, we have the same positions. Well, bravely, as far as that's concerned! In reality - Madam Minister and other ministers, it is somehow an impression that this area is a pastor in all this government. Instead of really good facts or good reality, good proposals, which also constitute a materialised form, are offered this resolution. This resolution may also be sand in the eyes. I am pleased with these critical remarks of yours, or from a serious criticism - but I do not know how you will vote against this resolution? Yeah, according to your point, then I expect you to be against it, otherwise you'll be unworthy. Madam colleague of Mrzelova, regarding the burning of books in history, the exaggeration and, I don't know what else, I have to tell you that on one occasion I was in Yalno's home country, and I have fallen into my hands a list of banned books published by this authority since World War II. They weren't such books, I don't know -- it's published, but -- but there are also books, Mr. Fellow, including Beavers, for example, the Ilans and similar books that had no objection to the revolution and were historical novels. So, every one of these stories, in order not to rise up, has its sinners and its sins. But somehow there are only others. So lucky that cultural creator - Mr. Zląbec, you will get the word, you are so unwaited, you will get the word, the President will give it to you! But you take those seconds away from me here - that is; this Slovenian culture will continue and creativity will continue, whether we adopt this resolution or reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister and Fellow Member, Honourable Member and Members. We do have a special event ahead of us, this is the adoption of a resolution on the national programme for culture, but it is an addition, a culture programme from 2004 to 2007, so I expect that we will talk about what is ahead of us, not what has happened, although it seems to me that there is a great deal in this mandate in culture - if I compare the efforts that have been made in the past to regulate some of the legislation, but those rules have not been adopted. It now seems to me that in the context of the Law on Public Interest in Culture, together with the National Programme for Culture in 2004-2007, we can see that when we join the European Union, at least at the legal level, we are prepared to realize our national, cultural interest in the multicultural community of European peoples and countries. Why are we going to undermine the national culture programme? As I understand culture as a place of freedom, I think it is one of the general priorities of cultural policy that is essential to the realization of such a concept of culture. Indeed, one of the general priorities is to promote cultural diversity. And there is not enough time to share what is meant to promote cultural diversity. Just when we consider art in its greatest surpluses as a harmonious link between aesthetic, ethnic and cognitive, we probably have the greatest difficulty in defining aesthetics, because culture in surpluses must look ahead. I also see culture as a fundamental human right, and as the next general priority of cultural policy, I see ensuring the accessibility of cultural goods and the conditions for creativity. Then how can we not support such a resolution? And if culture is the highest expression of individual and group creativity, then it seems to me that this priority, which speaks of cultural education as creative education and as an education for creativity, is extremely important. Details and performances shall be shown in the following chapters. But what I think is essential to this resolution is that it does not close the space and that it does not create a feeling that everything outside the individual's vision and understanding of culture and art should be excluded from the perception of national culture and art. And now to what is actually the first thing in the cultural program. I am very pleased that on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport I have received support for the amendment, which now defines such an address, which shows where our concern - Slovenian language, its use and development must be. So, not conservation, but development - and here I agree with all those who say it is up to us, so not only declaration preservation, but the use of Slovenian language. Here, of course, I could mention that I am little sorry that the consistency of the text is now broken by the amendment adopted, but if colleagues in the committee and colleagues thought that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party should be adopted, it is now in the text and I will not compete to expel it later. And let me mention just one more argument why I think the adoption of a national programme for culture is so important. It seems to me that it will encourage the emergence of other local programmes for culture, as is the case with the law on the realization of cultural interest, as we often find in our local environments that, despite the very numerous words about the importance of culture and the emphasis on our concern for national identity, when we go to the field of finance, culture draws shorter. And I hope that local communities will also feel the need to design cultural policies in their local environment. Cultural policy in the local environment is not only a list of investments, but it is much more than that. So, I'm looking forward to, it looks like, getting our support from the cultural program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Spending. Comrade Podobnik is away. I'm asking for the word of my colleague Tank. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. Perhaps first in the introduction about this or what happened before: either chicken or egg. The fact is, three years ago, or three years ago, you had already received a national programme for culture submitted to the National Assembly, which did not have a follow-up and did not have a conclusion in this National Assembly, particularly because it was said that we did not have a roofing law on culture. Here comes this dilemma about what happened before, chicken or egg. I think that this dilemma is completely irrelevant, completely unnecessary and essential in that it is only that we have lost ourselves at this time for three years and after three years or more, we are repeating this story about the national programme for culture again. So we had a chicken or an egg, whatever we took, and then we couldn't finish that chicken or egg. The next thing that seems important to me to be missing from this cultural programme is a chapter on principles. I think that this chapter is a mandatory component of this national programme; because I think that this programme must work after these clear borders, to clearly distinguish itself from non-essential in all areas, because otherwise, if we do not have these principles solved, then that means that there is a lot of room for manipulation, that there is a lot of room for, after home-made 'battle', that it depends enormously on the individual inclinations of those who finally make a decision in culture, which is in particular the ministry or perhaps at a lower level also someone else. This chapter is as important for the national cultural programme as or at least as that chapter on history that we last put on the committee's programme. And I think that all of these things, which we have proposed ourselves in this amendment, should be included in some way. One important feature of these principles is also the question of diversity, or the idea of plurality, if this is in principle inspired or not in principle, then a dilemma arises quickly between plurality, between extremeness and excellence. And it would be essential for similar matters to be recorded. We have proposed, and it has even been accepted, that a media fund is also included in the national cultural programme as one of the important categories, saying that an area that has always been subject to the control and control of the ruling authorities in all regimes in history. I think it would make sense that, in this area, systemic approaches are being put in place, that there are wider opportunities than there are, and that the media space is then formed in this broader way. For in history we have learned too many times that in fact every regime in this area of media, culture and education has established a certain regime, a certain censorship. And we were learning about Metrnik's and Bach's, and I don't know, I think even after the war we had one, we could say what Titus's absolutism was, and I think it would be wrong to continue this after every president of the current government, the current government. In short, this monopoly in this area should also be broken through system regulation. In a way, I was also quite surprised on the Committee that this issue of debate for the public presentation of opinions had somehow been opposed. However, I was then, I must say, I am pleased that this has been incorporated into the amended proposal of the law. In fact, this new proposal escapes me extremely, because I do not understand that the government can change its position in ten days to the same point so radically. Well, I hope I read it correctly, that I didn't make a mistake; but I'll be able to check it out. But I think there's something in this area that's disturbing. The next thing that's really bugging me, and the mistake that we're making, is that regional legislation often too radically interferes with its solutions to the local area. One such example is the law on librarying, where we have adopted, I can say, for many environments inappropriate and unpleasant solutions and thus have made it difficult to operate or be active in other areas of culture. In particular, the smaller local environment was characterised by other activities being combined within the public office or library. And by adopting this law in the way it is, we have placed all these other things in a materially subordinate position, and this has also prevented them many times in running for various means, and consequently for the execution of cultural tasks in local environments. Because if you get 50 percent instead of 50%, it also means that much reduction in programs. And I think that solution was incorrect. In addition to the normative work on the design of surfaces and other normative features in the field of libraries, this is also one of the additional matters that has destroyed and thus burdened the municipalities, and has also brought into the congregations a number of problems regarding cooperation with public institutions. The next thing I think we should do is separate commercial, entrepreneurial activities in culture and those real artistic or cultural activities. I think that the most successful in this area are those who are the loudest people who know how to stand up for their things, and they also get a lot of support, including a lot of media support, who are active participants in various social and other events, while many cultural workers, many culturers, are somehow left behind and forgotten. And there's something else I'd like to say. We also have a so-called tax reform in the procedure. I think that, above all, for the area of donorism, both culturally and, for example, the sports part of this reform could be put on a much more courageous footing. We would also allow for more direct investment in these activities, and in some ways also relieve this pressure on institutional or budgetary funding. I think it would suggest that if this reform were to be implemented to the end, at the part that allows individual or private investment in these programmes, it would be significantly different to set up and regulate. Finally, I would like to say just two more words about the fact that I must say that in some ways I am also disappointed that the government does not support any of the amendments tabled by our Group of Members. This in some ways shows that we cannot pass through this cultural struggle in this area as well. I think it would be right for these proposals to be assessed more correctly and not only politically, because I am sure that all these matters are rightly part of the national cultural programme for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Now he has the word of a colleague, Tone Partlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u38	Dear Madam Minister and your esteemed colleague, dear colleague and colleague! I'm just going to say something good about you at the beginning, Madam Minister, and about this national programme, because I'm going to talk later, maybe I won't be able to keep some satirical cord. You don't want to mix it up. In a way, I would like to acknowledge that you have cooperated in this way and have allowed this very broad debate, which you have led much wider to your own initiative, even beyond what we have requested here. I can say that at the time of this adoption of the national programme on culture in Slovenia, in the circles where it was necessary, and also where people are under pressure, in my new country, I do not think there has been much talk and some solutions. I don't think that's going to make any difference, so tomorrow this will be seen, but it was still possible, and it seems to me that you've served us quite patiently enough. That seems to me even, I would say, the best point of the national programme. Then, just so I don't ever come back later, it seems to me that a good induction, at least for the area I'm dealing with myself, is a great emphasis on cultural education. There are big traps here because there are no schools, and there are many things not ready, no spaces. But this emphasis seems kind of very good to me. After that, at the initiative of the writers, but you have listened to the library's compensation, I consider this to be a step forward. And also because I am also different from my colleagues, the decision that some kind of national institution is in Maribor and the other in Gorica and in some way that these border areas with this connection also seem good to me. Now that we are not gathered together to boast, first of all, as it is written down, about the great things that culture has done for the Slovenian identity and even the historical existence. When I'm listening to a lot of exhilarating words today, I'm surprised how she did it if she didn't have a national cultural programme. How did all of this come about without this basic act? What I'm saying is that, of course, the thing is alive, it's going to go on now. But I think one such thought is necessary. I would not agree with my colleague Sam, so in detail it is not important to politicise. I see no reason not to compare, for example, with the material we had. Of course, it is uncompetitive, since it is also pointless, and nature itself has made a different decision. We already have several national cultural programmes, which I miss a little bit, perhaps even to a friend and colleague Majdo Potrato, who seems to me to have made an excellent replacement for the introductory part. This used to be - even quote - Sheli's programme in the introduction, in one phase. And I am very supportive, and this is very real and the best that we have so far, which is included. But if we are to look ahead, in some ways we almost miss - we already have some national cultural programmes. When we mentioned other cultural achievements, not to say that on my journey from Lithuania to Catež, there is a program for literature. Even if I say so myself, I only follow this cultural agenda. There Levstik wrote, "How could I please the Slovenes who could wrap the truth in pleasant jokes?" And I'm doing it with my comedies, and I'm executing a national program from 1858. But then there are still some serious thoughts that might have caught up with us. This is especially Cankarjeva and white chrysanthemum, Slovenian people and Slovenian culture - this is painful for our time. When Cankar says in what Slovenian city is different from French - because French knows that his status is to buy books, go to operas and exhibitions, and Slovenian knows that he has to go somewhere good to go, drive with a Mercedes and play golf. And he is not a consumer of Slovenian cultural goods, while other citizens around the world are also consumers of cultural goods because of their status. We'll see soon as we go to Europe, see who's showing. Then we are also concerned with what Vidmar wrote in 1932 in the Cultural Problems of Slovenia. As a miracle, Vidmar saw a chance for Slovenian culture there in Europe. He says, "We are on the cusp of two cultures, we are small, we can absorb all these things, and we have the power, like Prešeren, to make something out of it, so that Europe can do something about it." And he speaks of what is very interesting for Vidmar, because otherwise he was quite a real man, about the role of Slovenia as one of the new Florence in the new era. I know it's unrealistic, but if I wanted to read this program, I would tell him that on the one hand it's almost very institutional, that I don't say officially, that something visionary had previously demonstrated it to Mrzelov -- I know it's not real in such acts -- but a little bit of motion that we would like to do, and it seems to me that all things are missing. I have missed many times, I apologize, not out of ignorance, I have had other paths; I also do not understand why - this has certainly been explained a hundred times - 2004 and 2007. Will we then be again without the Slovenian national programme? What is such a thing in this programme that could not apply for 2009? Did we even want to, or did we even want a national program? I imagine that something that is so important, we must pave the way for the future and for Europe. Okay, that would be the best explanation. But, by becoming a document of the Ministry and the Ministry's activities and by hearing them protest everywhere and I have the wrong amendment, k: I tabled it only to be able to explain my position when we say that we are interfering with the rights of self-government local communities. Of course, but the national programme does not concern only the ministry, but it concerns every congregation, and above all it concerns every Slovenian. I suffer as a "pessian" every February 8th, when people talk, the country is uncultured, the ministry does nothing for culture, politics is uncultured. The state can't read books! The state can't run a theater! Each one can be only cultural or uncultured, and we only partially reflect this condition. And this awareness that every Slovene, slehen, is obliged to do something for culture - and also for the congregations to the greatest extent. Then it's one part of the program, and the other is not binding again, and we have these situations with libraries that we hear about and that are things that are comical. All Slovenians are now, when we go to Europe, bloodguilty. And someone should actually say that. Everyone's an individual! Even there, in terms of rights and duties in the constitution, I would write that a person is obliged to exercise Slovenian culture and identity through it. But, okay, we got what it is; but I'm afraid that some will say, it's something for the country, it's none of our business. That the mayor of Maribor will say that he is no longer concerned with this and that he will deal with the libraries - or with the saints who say that people should collect books for libraries around the houses. But, okay. The strategic plans also put forward an unrealistic amendment to be among the documents on which the NP is based, that is to say, this national programme should also be a national budget. Yesterday I was warned that there are not enough countries that give 2% for culture to give less to give away from the budget. But from 1600 billion to give us 33 billion just for culture, at the same time, we all say that this is basic, which will identify us. I don't hope to ask how much we give to agriculture, that no one would want to say I'm running a demagogy. But we are starting to be identified by this and with this language we will be different from others and give less than 2% of the state budget! Don't tell me now that they're giving something else that's always in the air: how much they give and how much they're willing to give and what they first delete when they get into trouble, whatever. It seems to me that it should be worth at least 50 billion, it is clear that it must go to culture in this transitional period. That would be minimal. It would be 3% of the budget for something that we think has kept us through history and will keep us, but this is not the subject of our discussion either. We play everything, but it's basically charity. And that concern for the creators. Now we had a law on income. Only social, only the poorest would give something, one who really works and earns more than 3 million - I ask you how much we earn and how we would pee thinly with 3 million a year - and we are already taxing this immediately with additional income. So Jozet and I stood up to our own artists so that they wouldn't be taken away. I'm going to tell one story that's probably very distasteful - say it publicly, but I'm going to tell it as an illustration. I am always angry - Madam Minister, and I am defending you - but I am always angry when I come to the group of cultural people who say: they will destroy us now, we are getting worse, we cannot live anymore. I didn't understand those from the film fund who gave you a stone when you did, though, after School, I have to say that when the film started revitalising - and so have you - the festival and everything, instead of saying thank you. I don't want to be one of these. My daughter was a solo artist. I think she'll kill me when she hears me say it, but I'll tell you. And when she wanted to know how many years the Ministry had paid her this pension and health insurance, she couldn't get after three or four interventions of the answer, if the Ministry didn't have this answer because it was done for him by the Ministry of Finance after someone she was looking for there, they said to ask her to retire. [[...]] On the pension, they said that they should not give this information, for them the tax administration does it, go to the tax administration. She was advised to go to health care because it was the same time and she would find out. They wouldn't tell her that either. When she told me, I thought she was "fun" and she couldn't go through institutions. And I made the same journey for her, and to this day we couldn't get the data on how much time the Ministry of Culture paid for her. That tells you about the situation of a man who has little money. With some monodramo she earned over 3 million, and now she can't pay for it anymore, and thank God she has a father who is a Member. I apologize for this tasteless case, but it's not the only one. She's not the only one! And when we think I'm helping people, we're only helping someone survive a little, but that's an injection into cultural creation, and that's not it. And here I see this "grayslary". We built some libraries, but now they can't work because they're too big. Or did we build one building to "a man on the ass" when he sees it; as you see it in Paris, as you see it in one corrupt Castle so far, cultural, the provinces of Austria. And people from all over Europe are going to see it. People are fascinated by these things today. So it seems to me that we're just saving, that we're not visionaries, that we're not radical and that we don't do things enough. One thing that is certainly not a matter of this ministry, but it is us sitting here and thanking you, that you have devoted a great deal of concern to the book, to librarianism and publishing, too, but the situation in publishing is so alarming, in my humble opinion, that we should actually do something. We have kept some publications, thank God great, which are now monopolistic. We have a label that says the name is the Slovenian State Publishing Company. She's led by a famous LDS. Let me immediately say that luckily in this party, there are now quite a few cultures in the parliamentary group, and it seems to me that I am also stamping when we resist, but at least it comes to this - because otherwise my client is dealing with other things. Very rarely with cultural matters, so that we can identify ourselves and boast about it; and even when others are boasting about it, there is no great reason. But I mean, we have over 20 of our people in the saints. I see the State Publishing is a sponsor, thank God, a handball championship, and books can't be published. Collected works of Slovenian poets and writers, thank God, with your help, Madam Minister, publication in Maribor student publishing. This is a basic publishing project - collected works by Slovenian writers. The label, which bears the name "State", does not want to publish it anymore because it is not paid and is interested in dividends, as the director has stated, not anymore. I don't know if there's anything else we can do here, I don't know if there's anything else we can do, but the publishing situation, even though my friend Victory Jelinčič quoted me, despite the confusion that he somehow said about the book is true. And I, which is sort of a well-established author, tell you the publisher says, "Party, if you give up your fee, I'm printing you." And I thought, well, I have a salary. But that's what all writers call me. How can people then try to live, write, and so forth? I think it would be right for all of us together, not just the Ministry, to consider whether in this publishing industry to pull some sort of issue, as you plan to do here. I think it takes more courage and so forth. [[Thank you, Josie.]] I'd say maybe just one more thing. I find this very dangerous - I have already told Mr. Sugary in person so that he does not appear to be incorrect. Thank God the SDS amendments weren't accepted. Thank God they're not. And this discussion, which I think someone has to say, is, of course, a discussion by the party secretary for culture from a period of socialism: fear of the void, fear of American culture - yes, "for God's sake", whether the best dramas in this century have been produced, the best novels, dances, theatres and movies, and I am not an expert except that I have read the books. And we write today -- I don't even know what that's American, I don't even know; it's like Germany doesn't have bad television or movies. What's "American" now: just South American, United States or something? "Before the emptiness" - this being written by distinguished poets, will be remembered very well by my friend Janša when they said: democracy - is, anarchy - no and they banned the avant-garde. And it is thanks to you, Madam Minister, and to the former Minister that the door has been opened more precisely to this; do not be fooled. Culture is also an eccession, and here is this story of identity, which thank God - I may have commended you before - has not been used here and in the discussion continues. Slovenian identity in culture is the greatest - I will not say a word - because when Protestants wrote books, it was absolutely contrary to Slovenian identity. Like someone said, they had to be chased away, the books smoked and - march! And then time brought it all over the world, and it became a Slovenian identity. When it was romantic, Prešernu, as you know, deleted Zdravljavica, they should not have played Matička This is a Slovenian identity in culture - banning, fear of new, small and so on. So we don't fool ourselves, and now we say we're gonna watch out for youth, America, or ecstasy. And so on, I won't be too long. Otherwise, I applied for 20 minutes, and I was just being disciplined, and I cut back because I rarely speak. But I hear there's room and time pressure, so I'm gonna stop at this point and try to call back later. Well, I'll support the program. I don't think he's saved in anything, but it's worse if we don't have him, and then there's an excuse for everything that's wrong. We can never settle everything in culture, there will always be shortcomings, and we must allow it. And if in four years the National Assembly will again discuss culture in such a broad or in-depth way, and thank God. But it's a good thing we had this chance here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Comrade Partich. My friend Barovic or colleague Jelinčič is not present. That's what a colleague of Silva Montenegro has to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary and co-workers! I think it is a very important day today because we are discussing the national programme for culture, and I look forward to accepting it, because this will be an important moment for the further improvement of what we have achieved so far. For me as a librarian, it is important that the national programme for the culture of librarianism recognises as one of the general priorities. Libraries are not just an infrastructure activity that makes it possible to use [[read: consumption]] culture and cultural goods, but in themselves are cultural institutions that carry out a series of cultural activities, among which the most important is the preservation and promotion of Slovenian written cultural heritage. This may lead to the need to place librarianism in general priorities, as libraries are certainly the main way to provide information, data and basis for decision-making on important decisions and development issues, especially for culture, education, science and development. Libraries are more important actors in ensuring functional literacy and reading culture. According to general librarians, the national programme supports the development of general libraries, although the development baselines are given on average in Slovenia. The average achieved in Slovenia is good for those libraries that in their local communities have not been obedient to their activities so far, and this regulation brings them development and growth. The programme also provides support to more developed libraries, district libraries, which will also continue to care for their development and development of the profession. This has not yet established the same quality of libraries and the availability of library activities for all inhabitants of Slovenia, as some libraries will only be financed according to the preservation of the status achieved, but not according to the needs of the places. We therefore believe that the national programme of culture in this segment is not ambitious enough and is not sufficiently ambitious. The objectives are well set, in particular an increase in library services on average by 10% by 2007, but the well-planned development of general libraries in the national cultural programme also has its shadow page called funding. The general libraries are mostly financed by local communities and the programme does not emphasise the role of municipalities in achieving the objectives, so it would be necessary for them to adopt local programmes for the development of culture in all municipalities and only to align themselves with the national programme of culture. Without the provision of the staff, spatial, communication and material conditions financed by local communities, the implementation of the work of the general library programme is more difficult and feasible. The municipalities need to take into account the legislation and instructions adopted by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance in order to finance the general libraries, and unfortunately the local communities continue to understand and interpret the librarian activity, which is why Nova Gorica, Ptuj, Murska Sobota and many small libraries do not come to the front of the Slovenian media reports. So much for today, because we still have to leave for the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u41	Yes, please take into account this situation, we have several chapters or amendments that can only be discussed within the available time. There is no fellow Rukavek, so he has a word, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much. When we are ahead of the national cultural programme, of course, it must be said that it is a pleasure to finally accept it. I think I can commend the Minister's efforts in this cultural programme, if, of course, she is not responsible for the rejection of the previous cultural programme prepared by the late Rudy Sheligo. Since this is, in fact, a mistake, rather than allowing the Minister to upgrade and be a priority today for three years, in some policy, has given birth to the idea that the national cultural trail that was launched so briefly by an active cultural creator, an active writer, is not a suitable basis because this minister, this writer, is not in the right political option at the time. This is of course a bad side, but when I go through this national cultural programme, I must say that I agree with most things, but of course I wonder, because these indicators, goals and measures in some chapters are explained whether this is just a letter on paper or whether in this area we will really build in the future, work differently. The area of the book. Very nice are the measures, the indicators and all written - selling books on the head of the population. I doubt that this will increase significantly, except for the development of this picture, there are slightly less problems, more production in this area. Otherwise, I find policy inappropriate in this area at the present time, and I also think that what is happening in publishing is the most pronounced of those capitalist relations in taking over these societies, and also cultural policy people have their share of the responsibility in doing so. I believe that in this country, we should in fact reduce or abolish value added tax in the field of books of beauty, humanities and artistic content. This part of the production of the book would deserve such attention. Then here I see, if I understand correctly, the amendments that the ruling part of the policy again proposes the removal of the media fund, so they are against plurality in the media, which is a fundamental condition for ensuring also plurality in culture, including true relations, improving all these cultural productions. Then in the section protection of cultural heritage on page 79. Look, I agree with that, too. And an important part of cultural heritage are archives, archival affairs. And it is correctly written here that public archives for various reasons still have not taken over all the archival material of former public legal persons and societies created by 1991. I don't know if it's summarized here. This issue was best illustrated in a November interview by the director of the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Žumer, who spoke about a spectrum of this national heritage, as the archives of the security intelligence services of the previous regime are said to be. And, of course, the archive was in trouble. For the first time, the archives were not handed over to him, and for the second time, the Director notes that it is still on purpose - I must say that we have solid evidence that the material issued to the parties after 1992 is still being cleaned. How does this work with some cultural policy in this country? Such an important part of our relationship to history, our heritage, that is undoubtedly, continues to interfere in this area, and in this area this current government has made a significant lack of governance in ten years. Substantially low! I'm even afraid that this director, who has the courage to say this, will be firmly ahead of the invitation to tender that he is, I think he's in circulation now. It can happen that he will have consequences because he has pointed to something that is extremely important. And look, then to the Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that these things are written here in the same way that they are supposed to develop in the future. However, I have witnessed eight years of trying to move some things from this national council, which would also enable the cultural activity of Slovenians in substitution, which would allow this general objective of integrating the category of Slovenians in neighbouring countries into a common Slovenian cultural space. However, with such a policy that I am witnessing to her, in this country and also in this national assembly or the attitude of this policy towards the adopted laws of the National Assembly, I cannot imagine it - that the Slovenians will be more integrated into the common cultural space, which is, of course, a long-standing wish of the Slovenes living around the world and in place. We do not implement the law on the soundness of Slovenian television and radio programmes, and this is also the responsibility of this department. The marriage was passed, but the department didn't pull it out. And I cannot imagine how the preservation of the cultural identity of the Slovenians in the world, one of the objectives set here, would be possible without it. How could it be promoted to promote the achievements of the Slovenian community in the country and to support programmes and projects that provide greater bilateral flow of information on their cultural activities? That's right! We, the Slovenian state, have been consciously giving up on Slovenian minorities for the past few years - consciously, nothing is done. And the best evidence for this is Prešeren's award-winning speech by Florian Lipusz at Prešern's awards ceremony. I ask the Minister whether the Slovenian policy, not herself, has imagined this speech; what was said there; and how this frantically deviates from what is written here. We are not in the cultural field or in the field of infrastructure, we are not promoting these links anywhere. Last night it was found that the roads to Koroška were not predicted at all - they did not foresee at all! Yeah, then how do we connect? How? And I think our minority is more at risk of drowning in the European pot than integration into Slovenian cultural space. Without the instruments that will allow this integration into a common Slovenian cultural space that has not been implemented by policy in recent years, this will not be possible. And, look, because of this gap between this ideal and reality is always and always will be. I do not expect to approach the ideal, but there is a gap between the political will of the current authority and the reality that should take place. There is also a huge gap and, unfortunately, I have to conclude that I find it difficult to expect that everything that has been written is not just a political programme, that it is not a political programme to a large extent; that it is part of the agitprop of the current authority. Because that's what this power, historically, could always do. Agitation, agitprop, in fact, was one of the most developed activities in the cultural field and part of this agitprop is also the prevention of media pluralism, which you are permanently preventing. Because of this breakthrough, it seems to me that the pearls of Slovenian culture, the future, will still grow from wounds, from inappropriate national cultural policies, from the attitude towards the most lucid cultural creators, from an inappropriate attitude towards the most pervasive writers, to the most promising poetic souls. I'm afraid that -- which should not be today's reality anymore -- that the attitude towards a poet, if I take it as a metaphor, will still be the same as it was at the time when Gregorčič wrote, "And the pearl grew out of pain, these wounds are, bloody tears." Unfortunately, I think that based on cultural reality, cultural policy will still have to grow pearls from wounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u43	Okay, thank you very much. My friend Joseph Skolcz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. The moment of acceptance of this programme is, I would say, probably for a lot of people, not only for those who have always, I will say, what a good decade have they coordinated different interests and tried to rewrite them into this document, if we remember Mr Kmecl, who started these companies, but all the later ones to the team that is now the government and the ministry. On the other hand, I will say, the ministries and people who coordinated these documents were a large number of institutions and individual creators who had practically seen in this document the saving power that would help them realize their desires, ideas, etc. So this moment, on the one hand, is happy, and on the other hand it will bring about the fall of this illusion, so that such a document can be all-savory and all-encompassing. After the adoption of this document, there will also be no appropriate response to the fact that legislation is not in line with some basic paper which has been referred to for a while to the national cultural programme and now to the national cultural programme. The adoption of such a document is therefore a relief on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think it is wise to say, a great trap for culture. Why the big trap? As this document, however, essentially sets out the central position of the country in the field of culture. This also determines the extent of this golden cage in which everyone would like to be in. What it means is that the country is that key actor in the field of culture, it would be possible with inappropriate but still analogies throughout history to tell. When a country is decisive, it can do very big things, but it can also do very great wrongs. From this point of view is culture, and perhaps even in a similar situation, science, which should be careful that it is not as much dependent on the state and its apparatus as we all want in these debates right now. For this document - what seems problematic to me - premises the position of the ministry in this cultural system. The ministry is not what was ten years ago a pious desire, a service for culture, but it becomes a practically key player, a key decision-maker, a key, which can be dangerous, also a producer of various things. It decides practically everything: either through these powerful institutional powers or by redistributing a lot of money. It is therefore very important to say at this point that the ministry will have to do much to make it work differently than we are used to at this time. This great power, to demand a thousand small pieces of paper to be able to realize a book and a play, this power with this document is getting inconceivable dimensions, and at the same time not on the other hand, I will say, I will see no one, perhaps it could be a parliament that could control this power, which should be limited itself. That's why I'm saying that this document is a trap, so I'm going to say, some simplified mechanism of work, with one of the very important subsystems of society, but it can mean terrible problems. In the document itself, I see a lot of good, a lot of desires that we have tried in various ways to project into this cultural policy, but it is not - unfortunately - specific to ensure which of these will be possible. Indeed, the situation is such that the program, as wide as it is written, cannot be realized. This may be clear to us at the moment I accept it. From this point of view, it is again the Ministry's great responsibility to highlight the document's emphasis on the annual budget. Will there continue to be a trend that, of course, those who are permanently employed in culture, those who are organised in public institutions, those who have some institutional power, or will only be able to see some movement in this direction, which is reflected in these points when we are talking about supporting independent creators as one of the pillars of cultural activity, cultural provocation, is a big question. Of course I'm skeptical. Things got better. From, say, the initial 20, 25 work scholarships is now, say, 100. Of course, there are no tangible things out of some promise that an infrastructure will also be established to support the liberals, to simplify them. There are things written -- and believe me, I'm very interested -- I can't understand in a very clear way how they're going to be done. I also understand this way of asking questions, but when we accept it - and I have no doubt that we will accept - we will simply multiply this force of bureaucracy. Also, some other goals are under-optimal. If we have, say, certain things in the field of librarianism are still clearly set, let's say, for some other purpose in the field of inheritance, this is not comparablely set. If we know how to say everything about performances or music activities - again on some other segments of it is not. I mean that things are not done with the same methodology and that there are some kinds of compromises, a compilation that will continue to require careful reading and functioning. But if I hadn't spent all my time, I'd only have to point out two more things that seem important to me -- these two funds. The Book Fund, with the amendment we are making, is designed to give greater emphasis to this group, which has only managed to organise itself now both in its translation, translation and signatures of all these small publishers, and here sees in this special budget fund a better way to take care of this important segment. I hope you support this. According to the media, the situation is different. All these documents, which have bound the Republic of Slovenia to play an active role in this area, spoke of the need to promote audiovisual culture, audiovisual level in the media; there was no issue of printed media. With the fall of some idea that part of the RTV subscription, which is supposed to go to the local media, that this is not a constitutional category, which, by the way, some of us were talking at the time, extending this media fund to all media would be an even smaller possibility for this sub-food system, both in the field of public television, private television and all these productions. That's why I warn against this expansion, when there's not enough money, and I see some big danger in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed resolution is a large-scale material, which is largely unadded to it. The objectives are optimistic and are based on an analysis of the existing situation. Of course, local cultural programmes will also need to be prepared in a similar way and announced the activities of local communities. Although I do not know exactly how many of these programmes have been adopted so far, something is reliable, among them is great. However, if we want to implement this national cultural route, we will certainly have to follow it in all local communities. Before that, it will be necessary to redefine networks of cultural institutions and their importance. From my own experience, I know that a number of activities are needed if we are to cover all areas in a comprehensive way. When we discovered which gallery covers, for example, the Sheleška Valley, we found, despite the quality spaces and rich collections of this gallery, that we are a grey fox and that our gallery will soon have to be placed or placed in a network of galleries. And it's probably still like that in Slovenia. This will need to be achieved in addition to all the measures listed by the Ministry if we are to achieve the objectives set, for example, 30% increase in the number of visitors to galleries and exhibitions. However, in my debate, I, too, cannot go beyond Chapter 7, which talks about the media. Under the heading Promoting and Preserving Media pluralism, a particularly important role of public broadcasting is mentioned and, of course, I do not contest this. In particular, I welcome the announcement set out in the same chapter, which also predicts appropriate support for other programmes of particular importance: local, regional, student and non-profit radio and television programmes. The special weight of this forecast is right now, as has already been said, when the Constitutional Court has repealed Part 82 of the Media Act and consequently the Rules on Criteria for Financing Programme Content of Radio and Television Programmes with the Status of Local, Regional or Student Relevance. The decision of the Constitutional Court states that the amendment of 3% of the RTV subscription for the purposes of local, regional and student radio and television stations, of which I was the first-signed Member, is not the right solution. A new option will therefore need to be found and the draft resolution on the national cultural programme also agrees on this point. And one more thing. The discussion mentioned the ban on books in the former system. The book Bebra was just exposed. When I looked through my memory, I remember reading this book in my youth and even having it as a mandatory reading. This also proves how important home libraries are and how important it is that books are also affordable. The book fund is probably a good contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you, Comrade Kontic. Joseph Spindler would have his word if he wanted to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished members of the government. Culture is one of the most important activities of the Slovenian nation, which cherishes it throughout its existence. More than once, it has been said today that it is important for our internal development, for the development of mutual relations, for confidence in those living qualities of any positive development. All areas of life are conditioned by creativity, enthusiasm, progress, and thus by the existence and survival of our people and our country. I come from an area that has contributed greatly to the existence of the Slovenian people, and we have many cultural features. In Ljutomer was the first Slovenian camp, where the requirements of Slovenians to use exclusively Slovenian language in public life were clearly expressed. We have established an agreement with the Slovenian authorities, the Institute of the Tabor Movement in Slovenia, and it is financed mainly by the municipality and unfortunately by modest means. However, it is an all-Slovenian monument. We hope that this will now be resolved as part of the adoption of the resolution on the national programme for culture. In Ljutomer was also recorded the first film record in Slovenia, Grossman was also born in Prlekia. His home of birth still stands, with a modest mark. The largest Slovenian linguist dr. Franz Miklošič, whose monument is also before the Ljubljana court. The Rector of the University of Vienna in the Austro-Hungarian State was named knight by Emperor Joseph. His home is a cultural monument, which is cared for by the Lzómer municipality with modest own resources and with the current owner of the house. We contribute to the functioning of cultural societies within the framework of opportunities, although there are many cultural, sports societies in our field that have contributed greatly to Slovenian culture in their historical and current times. Kazaška društvo, for example, celebrates this year the 130th anniversary of its existence, 125 years of vineyard society in Ljutomer, 100 years of celebration last year of theatres of our cultural group, 100 years of celebration of Sokol, the current TV Partizan. The singing society celebrates over 110 years of its existence, feasting on the wind, music school. All of these are cultural monuments, which have contributed much to this cultural work of the Slovenian people. Without these small cultural stones, the existence of our cultural values, our people and our country also depends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u49	Jaša Zlębec Lukič, there's only a few seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u50	A few seconds? First of all, you can't put everything in the mold. The national programme is, by definition, condemned to be a charter, a bureaucratic charter, a set of wishes. For 12 years, the late Rudy Sheligo tried to do one consistent thing about such a culture, followed by Shuklje, who took the things that others wrote to him. But the fact is something else. You probably also know Milan Kleje, Slovenian writer, playwright and poet. When he came to the Ministry of Culture, which had not yet been the Ministry, an official who took care of books that had always had black bracelets said, "Cleep, Cleep, what you're going to do in life, you know, you can't live with writing. You better get a job so you can get married and have kids." This was the attitude towards the Slovenian poet. And believe me, that's the relationship today. Because art happens past programs, past ministers, and it happens, as is often said, in tiny little rooms. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u51	Time's up, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u52	Yeah, I was just talking for a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u53	The time of the Group of Members is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u54	Well, we - I'm just finishing it - can do the same for the Ministry of Culture or the Minister. Let's say the fact that the choirmaster was in the opera, he was in the opera archive overnight, which I think is fascist unprecedented in Slovenian and Ljubljana opera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you. With your debate, we have concluded a general debate on the motion for a resolution. We are now moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. We will guide it on the basis of a review of the amendments, of 26 February of this year. First of all, we have the amendment of the parliamentary group now to the debate on the amendments. [[...]] No, because you're going to have this opportunity with an individual amendment. First we go to Chapter 2, Introduction. This is where your parliamentary group has made an amendment. Doesn't anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This debate is then closed. We go to chapter 5, Goals and actions in specific areas of culture, to sub-chapter 3 - Visual art. We have an amendment from the SDS Group. Doesn't anyone want to discuss it? Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Given that there is relatively little time left to discuss the amendments, this will need to be kept in focus. The fact is that the legislation adopted in the field of culture in many ways also interferes with the scope of work and the way the local community works, and in particular has caused problems in those municipalities which do not receive income from themselves or from other sources enough resources to finance the operation of their obligations. I think it would be right for the state to try to preserve cultural activities also in areas that are somewhat demographically more at risk, which do not have sufficient financial opportunities, but the interest in the culture of action in these areas remains and exists and is in fact very active. But not only in terms of investments in the facility, but mainly in activities and popularisation of the institutional and also of the amateur culture. I think that this would be included as at least one objective of this next medium-term period, for which this national programme will apply, and that it would then weigh this as well. I think that this government opinion, or the support of the government that it has denied, is not such that it is meant to allow for equitable or coherent rural development, as well as for smaller municipalities. Because that's where the biggest problems are with providing these kind of activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u57	Okay. Anyone else want a word? Otherwise, I will conclude the discussion on this chapter or chapter. To sub-chapter 6 - The Book, the amendments were tabled to the SDS Group and to the LDS Club. [[No, no, ……]] Then the debate is closed. To sub-chapter 7 - Media and audio-visual cultural. It's four amendments to the LDS. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u58	This is also one of the chapters where opinions and differences between coalitions and opposition are always being broken in some way. The fact is that we have a great deal to say at that time, this is said at the principle level, at least as regards the provision of diversity. But when we face the practice of doing something concrete, then there are extremely many reasons why this diversity or pluralism is blocked in some way. I am, as I said earlier, surprised that the Committee had the view of the government that the media fund should be put into the national programme. I am also surprised now that the proposal of the largest government party has come to remove this from the national programme. I think that, above all, the Liberal Democracy, where there is a great deal of emphasis on this liberality and liberality, should be highlighted in particular. Not that it comes with a proposal when this is deleted when it is deleted and the status quo is maintained, when the largest public media of the previous period have become owned by those who then held managerial and leadership functions in these media, and in addition probably some more through these para-state funds, state property, which is managed indirectly or directly by the government. I think that at least what it is, or at least those who are for very liberal solutions in this area, should be able to integrate this fund and also get the other half of the citizens who are not involved in this institutional work the opportunity to present themselves in a different way and also to present their opinions, their views and their views. For more or less it is quite clear that the censor system has been maintained in the media, that a rather sharp selection is taking place, especially at the time we are now. This feeling is not the best and even for Slovenia is not healthy. A healthy competition must be allowed, and quality must be allowed to come out. Otherwise, we decide to institutionally close and block the confrontations and thus also the quality, but we give up virtually the free thinking of half of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I also think, in fact, I am surprised that it is still possible for the largest government party to be so determined, with all the methods and means to fight against some pluralism in the Slovenian media world. See what the editor of one of Slovenia's biggest journals wrote in the introduction, "Ma'am, we are no longer going". In the central political theme in Slovenia he predicted a topic, an interruption of information, which really happened. This could not have happened in a normal plural media world where another officer would have destroyed it because of this. There's absolutely no way something like this could have happened. And these cases are huge. To fight this way, one of the reasons I was talking about before is that the archives have not yet received these materials about the operation of former intelligence services, that these archives are still being cleaned. And in this regard, I must say what I have already said that, on 10 February, I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister as Chairman of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Of course, he did not answer me, so I will now hand him over to the Minister, because this is also part of her area and her responsibility to protect this part of her cultural and national heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u61	I conclude the debate on Chapter 7. We're at chapter 11, Pet activity. The amendment was tabled by the LDS Parliamentary Club. The debate is closed. And we are at the last sub-chapter, in Sub-chapter 12, of the International Cooperation, where the amendment of the SDS Group of Members has been tabled. Since there is no debate about him, we will now conclude this point. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 4:15 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This point has been interrupted. The work of the National Assembly has also been suspended. It will continue at 1:30 p.m. to consider the draft resolution on the national drug programme. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government and presented by Minister Keber. We will hear the explanation of the committee, the parliamentary group and the debate on the resolution as a whole and turn to the debate on the amendments. By 1:30 p.m., I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u62	Finally, I would just like to say thank you to the Members and Members for the debate, for the criticism and greetings. In particular, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Youth for participating in all these discussions, which have been very constructive, and in the beginning called for culture to be your companion. However, I would like to invite you to follow the government's message or to think about the future when legislation is being adopted. You yourself have warned, the case law in the field of taxes, special legislation in the field of local community or community financing, which is an integral part of those words that you have also said today and follow the resolution of the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. So the point is closed. At 1:30 a.m., we are moving on to a motion for a resolution on the national drug programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to all! Between us, I very much welcome the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra and the representative and representatives of the government, or the Office of Drugs, a nice greeting to everyone! We're moving to Treatment 18. Agenda items - On the defence of the draft resolution on the national drug programme for 2003 to 2008. The draft resolution was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. I call on the Minister of Health, Professor Dusan Kebra. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u65	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I am speaking to you today in my role as President of the Government Commission on Drugs and also of the future head of the Department of Narcotics, where the new legislation includes the Office of Drugs. The national drug programme has been set up for three years in cooperation with many ministries or various ministries, government services, experts, and important, civil society, lay-offs and drug users themselves. The programme is a meaningful follow-up to the first programme in 1992 and brings new activities and orientations until 2009. At the same time, it is in line with the international guidelines of the United Nations and the European Union's drug strategy. The main objectives of the programme are to reduce the harm to drug users, especially among adolescents, to establish effective and quality drug addiction prevention, treatment and social treatment programmes, to reduce all parallel drug damage, such as infections, diseases, stigmatization of individuals, crime, and to reduce the introduction of drugs into the country and drug trafficking in Slovenia. It is important that in this country, not only what the programme emphasises, but also a stronger attitude towards the issue of drugs, we are aware that prevention and treatment and social treatment programmes, and not first stigmatisation and repression, have taken place, of course, all countries and also ours once in the past. The programme is therefore based on these modern principles. The programme provides for the development of further coordination of activities at national level, which will be represented by the Commission on Drugs, composed of an inter-resourced and local level, local action groups. This means that we want to ensure that there is a clear link between national programmes, regulation and strategy and the environment where these programmes are being implemented. The programme foresees some new methods, methods, prevention and treatment. The programme does not want to replace professional answers to individual problems. In doing so, let me specifically mention the question of methadone, which, not just our public, is a matter of a number of years and in which there are professional issues, and on these professional issues related political issues, about the relevance of the methadone programme as a programme that is actually doing even more harm. The programme takes the view that it must be the profession to define the relevant programmes and that the rest must be followed by appropriate activities. Of course, it is our right at any moment to require clarifications for individual programmes, to require added opinions, to require international comparisons and analyses. This is our role, and a smaller role is to intervene in the doctrine and in the ways of prevention and in the treatment. The emphasis is also on reducing the damage caused by the use of drugs, which is the case with AIDS and hepatitis C. Let us mention that our country can be proud of at least a low percentage of HIV infection, AIDS, which is very likely due to the fact that our awareness-raising, monitoring, safeguards programmes have prevented the introduction of hard drugs into our country and that this initial lower stigmatization and the permissiveness of society has allowed us to have a relatively small problem today in this area, and we must not, of course, keep our eyes closed so that we do not know exactly what can happen to us in this area in the future. Decriminalisation of drug users is the position of this programme. There is a difference between a single-use user or a single-use drug holder, which is an offence, and, of course, another crackdown, and that it is a difference between whether or not we are directing such an individual to treatment, and this supports the programme, and not criminality. The programme requires a more efficient information system of all the different data we need and need from different decision makers at the national and local levels, also requires regular evaluation of the programmes on their effectiveness and the assessment of whether they are still in use or not in the future. We believe that the programme is balanced, of course we have achieved this very broad consultation with experts and civil society. The programme shall include all aspects of the protection of human rights. The programme takes the view that penalties should be increased for traffickers, particularly when it comes to the supply of drugs to children and adolescents. The programme also supports the impact of civil society on the fight against drugs. According to the programme, we consider ourselves to be among the countries that are advanced in this area, at least at the level of the programme, committed to what they will do in the future, but also among the countries that can show what they have done in the past period. It is true that in no country in the world have they discovered the final way and a truly effective way of reducing drug abuse, that we have not achieved this in some other areas, in the area of legal drugs, which, of course, we are also trying to make faster progress and have some progress in this area. But it must be realized that without such programs, the epidemiological picture would probably be worse. We will probably be able to prove our success or failure for a few more years not only by reducing, but at least by international comparisons, where we belong in an international environment and whether we can follow or effectively follow what other countries have done to at least limit the scope of this problem. Allow me to end by saying a few sentences on the subject of the department belonging to the drug office and where the drug office is subsequently involved. In fact, there have been some initiatives for the government to reconsider putting this office at the government level. I believe that the Ministry of Health in this mandate has demonstrated its concern not only for the healthcare system or for the treatment of citizens during illness, but also for public health as a whole, i.e. to promote a healthy lifestyle, preventable disease and, of course, also for the fight against drugs. In our view of some not so important steps, we may have done something to reduce alcohol abuse or overindulgence in alcohol consumption and to reduce smoking. Let me also mention in this House that the number of deaths fell for the first time last year, the consequences of accidents involving alcohol. We do not want to claim that this is due to the law that we have adopted in this House in this way or in another way, but we are convinced that this is due to a public debate that took place long before the adoption of this law and has contributed to the consideration of every citizen in particular of what is, for example, safe and reasonable or dangerous at the time of driving the car. Let me therefore ensure that this illegal drugs programme is taken equally seriously, with the same seriousness and with all responsibility, and that, with the authority of the Ministry, we will try to ensure the coordination necessary between the various ministries. Public health is not just a mission of the Ministry of Health; public health is a task of many departments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I warmly welcome the Minister with his fellow Members and all of you, fellow Members and fellow Members! The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the motion for a resolution on the national drug programme at its 40th regular session 5.2.2004. However, in view of the need for integrity and the purpose of addressing this area, the Committee organised and carried out a public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly last year, 16.1. In addition to the text of the resolution and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the members of the Committee were also given a number of amendments to qualified applicants and an abundance of additional material from interested institutions and individuals. The legislative and legal service which, in accordance with paragraph 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has examined that motion for a resolution in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, has drawn up a number of concrete comments. During the discussion, the members of the Committee considered that the public presentation of the opinions organised by the Committee was useful and substantively justified, as it provided a number of answers to the area's regulation and an open question. There are certainly differences in the content and expertise of dealing with this issue. That resolution should be adopted, but the area should continue to be closely monitored, especially when the Office or the work of an institution directly subordinated to the Government is transferred to the relevant area, in this case to the Ministry of Health. The members of the committee supported four amendments from colleagues of Tisovčeva, two amendments from colleagues of Dr. Tsukjati, fifteen amendments from four parliamentary groups, namely the LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, and the amendment from Comrade Drobnic. However, the members of the committee did not support the seven amendments of Mrs Tisovcheva, the two amendments of colleague Tsukjati and a series of amendments have become irrelevant in view of the many amendments adopted. The Committee has also drafted two amendments to two sub-chapters and has thus concluded its consideration of the entire document submitted. In accordance with Article 130(1) of the Rules of Procedure, a supplementary motion for a resolution is submitted in accordance with all the amendments adopted in the report. The members of the Committee also adopted a decision which reads as follows: the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a supplementary motion for a resolution on the national programme in the field of drugs 2004-2009. However, the members of the Committee did not adopt the proposed additional decision by which it was intended, based on a number of arguments and discussions, both at the presentation of opinions, to organise some kind of round table in this National Assembly, as follows from the Committee's deliberations itself, in order to further examine the relevance of the Government or to further examine the arguments whether it is good for an institution which is somehow a coordinating, coordinating body in this area and which has now been subordinated directly to the Government to the Ministry of Justice. This decision, as I said, was not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Members' groups will be identified by the motion for a resolution. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, or Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the national drug programme from 2003-2008. The country is adopting a new national drug programme. This is needed because the problem of drug use is severe and deepens, spreads and becomes dangerous for the whole of social tissue. The drugs came from our primary school, despite the guards, and it's full of them in the countryside. Entry into Europe, European integration will open up the flow of goods, services, capital and unfortunately also corrupt substances and services. Among drug users, there are also those who might be questioned. The government's proposal for a programme is in many ways good, but it is not clear as to the value of drugs, consumption, their abuse. It is clearly a liberalist approach that highlights the freedom to use drugs, which is particularly reflected in the notion that the right to own drugs is undeniable. By allowing yourself to have drugs for personal use means promoting, consuming and selling. This is duality and valuable relativism, which shows the "letter ear in the hundred" of those who are supposed to prevent drugs." The program reflected a servile attitude towards drug users, which the state has to help them unconditionally and addicts are not obliged to take any steps. Part of the responsibility must also be assumed by addicts. It follows from the programme that the country should support needle addicts, give methadone, a safe room to enjoy and many other things to wish for. This is uncritical service to drug users, so they quietly continue to use drugs with the assistance of the state. The programme objectives are not quantified and it will therefore not be possible to assess and measure the results achieved or programmes achieved. We have an overview of the number of users, at least that's what these statistical services say, spending money, but we don't have a measure of the effects of healers, abstinents. It is necessary to measure the real and real effects, not the number of service providers or the means used. It is therefore necessary to evaluate programmes from the point of view of the impact criteria, to undermine one programme with others or its dysfunctions, which appear to be at risk of all costs of money and the maintenance of staff. The practice so far is too focused on maintenance programmes and less on in-depth, high-level programmes that really contribute to abstinence and quality of life. Where's the program control? The resolution did not contain a single sentence intended for employment programmes. Then our amendments were added. Adaptation and training at work. Vocational and social rehabilitation training is a condition for successful social reintegration and permanent abstinence. The school didn't complete its mission. The educational content highlights the information aspect of the effects of drugs, which makes them more attractive to the adolescent or to the child instead of deterring them from doing so. We should emphasize the harmful and dangerous effects and, on the other hand, promote healthy lifestyles, full leisure, creative activities, etc. Social values are drying up, consumption is growing, a estranged individual is left to seek freedom and drugs. Most programmes in Slovenia deal with the reduction of damage, thus preventing infection of communicable diseases. These programs have no purpose in abstinence. It is a program with a lot of money and controversial or minor effects. Some programmes and operators with questionable effects are provided with relatively large funds - methadone, needles, vaccinations and the like. However, for high-level programs with real effects, money is usually running out. Also unhealthy is the competition between social and health rehabilitation programmes. Particular attention should be paid to the use of methadone. According to the way and the extent of its use, it can be said that it is an abuse, including abuse. The abuse of methadone in Slovenia is a fact that it is the subject of the earnings of official suppliers, the exchange of funds for real drugs, and in some non-critical cases of regulation has become a state promotion of drug use, the strengthening of dependence and the means of power over an individual. In prison, he became the only regular substitute for drugs. The role and place of NGOs is not clear enough. The non-governmental organisation cannot be the one whose programme is paid by the State directly by the contract. This transforms the NGO into a corporate state institution. We will have to provide truly independent resources to finance NGOs. These are direct citizens. That is why we need to amend the Income Act. The country must prepare a programme seriously and responsibly, so that people do not tell us, "it is good that we have drug users, because we provide jobs and social security for social workers, therapists, doctors, we leave the way for entrepreneurship and black marketers, drug dealers and drug brokers" or that all this work is intended for state bureaucracy, which is being set before the international public by such resolutions. Although several amendments tabled by Nova Slovenija have been adopted, this text has not significantly changed the momentum, since these are several different concepts. You say that this resolution is a reflection of time, a reflection of the situation of spirit and reality. Okay. However, a resolution that follows problematic practice and only confirms it does not mean a sound direction and good leadership. Since the paradigm of this resolution is that it seeks to ensure the safe use of drugs, that it is the task of the State to provide needle addicts, free methadone and safe rooms for drug use in the sense of prevention, without leading to any abstinence, and where the state guarantees rights unconditionally, without requiring any step in the sense of liability and obligation on drug addicts, we cannot give support to such a programme in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister and coworkers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing a resolution on the national drug programme for the period 2003-2007, which is a fundamental document in this area and is a logical consequence of a series of adopted documents in the past decade. It is good to remember that Slovenia adopted its first national drug ban programme in 1992. A similar document was adopted by Europe in 1990. So we've been following this pretty quickly. Our programme would have been relatively modern and modern in the future by then. Since then, a number of important results have been achieved. A rather comprehensive network of drug reduction programmes, prevention of drug use, prevention programmes, treatment and social treatment programmes and damage reduction programmes, as well as various drug supply reduction activities, i.e. repressive authorities' programmes, has been developed. A completely new drug law has also been adopted, which has been in line with international legal acts. It is very important for us in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats that a comprehensive coordination of local-level activities has been established, which is overtaken by a network of local action groups, which is also coordinated at the national level. Today, we are considering a resolution on the national drug programme, which is methodologically based on some 200 cases that are most common, which certainly represent a guarantee that the preparing group has thoroughly understood how the problem is being addressed and how to address it. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the most striking debate will be precisely and in particular on an action plan that will be drawn up immediately after the adoption of this document, as many debates on the disclosure were focused precisely on the methodology, whether it was appropriate and whether the relationship between the principles and objectives was appropriate, between the introduction and the conclusions and whether this relationship was the right one. This introduction highlights the main principles and objectives and highlights the specific activities to be carried out at all levels, at national, regional and local levels. In particular, it points out that it must be equal to others: social, health, economic issues in the country, and that measures must be taken on this basis to promote continued coordination, to negotiate such different activities. In particular, it seems to us in the parliamentary group that practical measures to help illegal drug users are also included among the objectives, as all sectors in this area need to be involved, as the problem of drugs is not just the issue of the Ministry of Health. Here we have a very important activity and activity of the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Sport, the Ministry of Justice, Home Affairs, Customs, the Ministry of Finance and Defence, as well as representatives of civil society. I think that this programme very well highlights the role and manner in which civil society operates. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that one of the main areas is precisely the area and a chapter dealing with mechanisms for achieving the objectives. In our group, we welcome all those measures that will promote new approaches and ways to treat and prevent the spread of illicit drugs, which will, among other things, reduce the introduction of illicit drugs into the country. We expect that it will also help to improve information, as well as improve all databases necessary for such complex interdisciplinary work. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we will support the current programme in anticipation of finding new opportunities, which will also help to ensure that more citizens and citizens are aware of the tragic and harmful effects of drugs. Nor is it expected that this program will in one way legitimize or prove which is the optimal method of treatment. We know that any method that leads to an effective goal, namely the healing of a person, is good. That is why we support such a fan, which is also given in the national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the motion for a resolution before us today. With the drug problem in Slovenia we have long-standing, unfortunately [[Undernourished]] , "rich" experience. Especially after independence, the number of drug users in our country has increased, as our country is at the crossroads of smuggling routes used by drug traffickers to smuggle mainly hard drugs into the West. The situation became further complicated when, after the end of the war in the Balkans, an already-called Balkan path led across the territory of the former Yugoslavia and also through Slovenia. All of this requires a systematic approach by a country that must not care about the health status of its citizens, especially young people, and any other consequences arising from the problem of the use of illicit drugs. With a hand in hand, organised crime appears, the biggest cancer of modern society, as profit from the sale of illicit drugs is infiltrated into all social times, sometimes in the world of even political life. We believe that the proposed resolution, which is before us today, will provide a good basis for solving this big problem and that we will allow the growing generation to have such a living environment that will provide them with healthy personal development. The greatest responsibility for this is in the country, which must ensure and ensure that it itself is politically stable enough, economically sound enough to allow access to various services, in particular to work for young people, to be sensitive and to have sufficient hearing to deal with this problem and to engage in its resolution. We must not allow ourselves to be deliberately stimulated by blinding the eyes of such a burning problem. All of these are problems that concern all of us, who must not care about our young families and their loved ones, for whom this is particularly difficult. Moreover, we are responsible for this situation and it is essential that we act immediately. We estimate that the resolution covers all the important solutions that will help us to create good and healthy foundations for our youth and, consequently, for all of us, to solve this extremely pressing social problem. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national drug programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear, good-bye! First of all, I must say that we will support the motion for a resolution, although we are the opposition, because we believe that if politics does do what it says inside, it will be a step forward in solving this problem. But he was unfair to himself and to others, if I said that everything was all right and that there are not some great things in here that would be worth fixing and complementing. But first, where are the Slovenians? I have an interesting analysis ahead of me on the state of drugs between 15 and 16-year-olds in schools. 83% answered the question of whether you drank alcohol at least once in the past year. This is exactly the European average. Have you been drunk at least once in the last month? Europe 52%, Slovenia 56%. Did you use marijuana for once in your life? Europe 16%, Slovenia 25%. Have you used any of the other illegal drugs? Europe 6%, Slovenia 7%. Have you ever used a flute? Europe 9%, Slovenia 14%. Have you combined alcohol and tablets? Europe 8%, Slovenia 9%. And the tranquilizers. Europe 7%, Slovenia 8%. So we are not an oasis in the world and in Europe. This is why we must also take this issue seriously, as is the world, the World Health Organization, the United Nations and the European Union. But when we look at the United Nations Conventions, the first of 1961 and beyond from 1971 and 1988, all conventions are listed and also the last drug control programme adopted in Vienna, the United Nations, this is what the United Nations Programme, which issued instructions, says: "activities should be carried out under the auspices of the Prime Minister or directly subordinate government service." And all these conventions, as well as this latter, point out that if such a body were located in one of the ministries, we are at a very high risk of placing a great deal of emphasis on the particular sector and neglecting the other sectors, which would of course prevent effective coordination. The European Strategy and the Drugs Action Programme 2000-2004 also emphasises that this approach is very serious in dealing with and tracking drugs. And Slovenia already had such an office. He's been building for several years, and he's been living with the DEA. He was directly subordinated to the Prime Minister, outside the individual ministers, and therefore coordinated the work of all ministries, which must be called upon to resolve the issue. And we were often commended for this and for other countries' example during the period of accession to Europe. This is a broad problem of drug treatment. I only mentioned one during my youth. This office will now, as indicated in the programme, be located at the Ministry of Health. What does that mean? This means that, of course, it will be the Ministry's office that the Minister will negotiate and seek other ministers in further work, but of course the health component will prevail in dealing with drugs sooner or later. However, to deal with drugs for other things, not only that, but it is clear from other United Nations conventions, where they are constantly repeating and warning that the drug problem is related to international organised crime, that it is linked to trade in white goods, prostitution and also to the sale of children and money laundering. In any case, drugs are closely linked to the Ministry of the Interior, law enforcement, justice, the Ministry of Education and could still be listed. I even argue that the problem of drugs is more the problem of some other ministries than the Ministry of Health. This is like, say, we have trade, black arms trade, trafficking, arms transport, we have illegal weapons possession, uncontrolled use of weapons, and, of course, the neighbor shoots him if he doesn't die, then this wounded neighbor becomes a health problem. That's when it becomes a health problem. And none of you have thought of locating this weapon problem to me in the Ministry of Health. Why not? Last but not least, it'll be a health problem. That's exactly what it is and nothing else. As a result, it is a huge mistake to transfer the office that has come to life, which has become truly good, exemplary, to transfer back to the Ministry of Health or to the Ministry of Health. Not long ago, when some teacher from Kopra - no, from Nova Gorica - described his example of how he meets drugs in school. For he is much around the world, he works in conversation with children, he devotes a lot of time to it, they have talked openly, and he says: "It has turned out that between students and students who went through this program," talks, so to speak, "the number of grass and drugs users has fallen very low. The aim of this project is to encourage the entire class that he is the very carrier of this prevention. That students realize that those who are long on hard drugs are more difficult to heal. If the class knows this, it will not hide this problem, but it will face it, because for students it is no longer the hero who uses drugs, but the one who realizes that he has to do something about himself." No health prevention, nothing, just a good pedagogical reception. And given that the main "dealers" networks in the back, behind the school, behind the fence, in the school benches, and that there are at least 20 completely large "dealers" in the Štěpňsko settlement that have one kilo of heroin at their disposal every moment, and the public is aware of this, then it is known where this problem is being served - certainly not at the Ministry of Health. That's the first problem I've highlighted. And, fellows, you'll have time to replicate or express a different opinion. Another problem is that if this issue is mainly identified and only in the Ministry of Health, this health approach will prevail. We know how this health approach is currently valued and focused primarily on programmes that in some ways prevent and reduce crime as they reduce the need to buy heroin, this is a methadone programme. Of course, if each day gets its dose of methadone, then it will not have the need to buy drugs and so on, and of course it will only solve the consequences, but not the causes, and not the prevention that health care cannot offer - prevent work outside of health care. Well, if I touch this methadone programme, you know for yourself that it has been repeatedly marked by the Minister as extremely good, as extremely acceptable, as is confirmed by the profession. Let me mention the statement made by a member of the International Narcotics Control Board at the United Nations, which says that this is a very wrong approach if it is not treated as the last exit to force. As we consider the methadone programme to be generally accepted as a non-problem programme which does not need a thorough audit and which is confirmed by the section to quote the President of the Republic Faculty of Psychiatry, which was almost two and a half years ago, he said: "The Republic College of Psychiatry considers that the so-called maintenance therapy with methadone" is the iconic name heptanone, of course heptanone, which doctors usually give to dying patients or those who are truly written off, cancer patients and so on, says that this therapy is only the last way out of dealing with drug-dependent drugs, so methadone can only be prescribed when all other treatment options are exhausted." In the opinion of the Expanded College of Psychiatrics, the prescription of methadone should be taken into account in people infected with AIDS, in pregnant women on hard drugs and infected with AIDS or hepatitis, in persons injecting drugs at least three times a day, in persons who have failed all non-metadone treatments and so on. Such a position, says the President of the General College of Psychiatrics, has already adopted an extended professional college in 1991 and has also been published publicly, but the Health Council of the Ministry of Health for a few years after that without any apparent reason and past the extended College of Psychiatrics has turned on the green light for the use of methadone in all persons I stress myself, and often unproven, declare for drug-dependent people. And then he says that, in fact, every drug addict seeking help in a health facility is already on the way to a combination of drugs with methadone, which makes it even harder to get rid of. And since this methadone programme was questionable years ago and some irregularities have also appeared or even come to the public, in 2000, the drug office, which was then an independent office, carried out an inspection of the work of the methadone centres. There it was found that I would quote: "...that the mandatory teamwork in all centres limps or is not at all, that the programme of centres often shrinks to the distribution of methadone by medical means, that the doctor is present for too short a time and the psychiatrist is even less, sometimes only 45 minutes a week." Most importantly,'so says the report,' she pointed out in her eyes the unexplained significant differences in the use of material costs between centres. In one center, there are 200 times as much consumption for the patient as in the other." And, of course, it goes on to say that the unexplained excessive differences between the proportion of patient involvement, some of which included 27%, some 96% of the other 96% of the methadone programme from the addicts, some of which received methadone every day, some 15% of the methadone patients, some 96%, and that there were cases where even two thirds of patients received methadone once a week as a whole. What's he doing with that methadone? We don't know. We do know, however, that in many cases there is shopping, reselling, and this is a very interesting market commodity. In addition to this, in some cases they found a whole stack of cartons, where nothing was entered, where there was no knowledge of who was getting methadone, and who did not, for example, where in one year the number of those receiving methadone fell by 50%, while the consumption of methadone rose by 50%, where there were major errors and suspicious cases. Why am I telling you this? Because for the first time since we are dealing with drugs in Slovenia, an independent inspection was made. For the first time, such a report was given. It was done by the DEA. Six months later, Minister Keber drew it, threw it in a basket, and disbanded the supervisory commission that did it. And so far everything's quiet and quiet. This office, which now goes under the Ministry of Health, will, of course, no longer be able to monitor health services in that sense, and this is the biggest mistake. There's something else I'd like to mention. This is still a stepmother’s attitude towards other therapeutic programs adopted. You know, the one who's addicted, even when he's not capable and he's going to some group, to some community for treatment, that goes mainly when he's no longer fit for school or for work. And his parents must continue to maintain it. For a child under the age of 18, at least the cost of income relief is minimal. But if parents support five years of someone who is 20 years old, 25 years old, and is nothing from him, and pay the commune, they do everything for him, they can't even include the tolar in the income relief. And more than that, if an addict goes to psych ward, it costs 20 grand every day. But if he goes into the room, the state can't even afford a tolar to at least provide him with health insurance. Not even a tolar. For every methadone, for every person who gets methadone every day, for a year, the state gives 700,000 tolars. And this patient on the methadone program won't recover. All life will be practically sealed and burdened by the state. However, if he goes to the therapeutic group, there is some possibility that he will not be a burden on the country until he dies, but he will be able to work and live a normal life. Well, he doesn't give the state anything for him. And these groups, these societies, this civil society is actually fighting for a few small funds, for a few subsidies and so on. I think that this is an unfair approach, an unfair treatment of civil initiatives. It is also unfair to the State budget and taxpayers, because it could have a greater impact by means of smaller funds. This national programme represents a step forward in the sense that this sphere is nevertheless somewhat recognised in terms of more equal treatment. However, I would like this programme to make it more clear that the state is prepared to support such action groups more financially, as this is still cheaper than falling exclusively on the shoulders of professional health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. In addition to many positive developments, the post-modern industrial society is also facing more and more negative things and phenomena, including the use of illicit drugs, and more than that, the phenomena associated with this use. All society and thus all key public authorities must be aware of the situation as it really is, and do not pretend that it will pass itself or improve itself. Interdisciplinary approaches must be taken both preventively and decisively in the entire field of public life, in the sense that the addiction or dependence of individuals on illicit drugs and all of the issues raised and the dilemmas resolved are interlinked. The growing number of users of illicit drugs depends on a number of factors, which can be constrained by a comprehensive approach in a variety of ways and thus to some extent prevent the loss of human life as an individual, most often a youth and often his family. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore assess and adopt the applicant's approach to putting the resolution or national drug programmes at the core of all and all further activities and actions, as a good and necessary approach to connecting with man and society a good thing, a number of institutions and heart individuals who have been engaged in a wide-ranging social and human work for many years. We see the resolution on the national programme as a kind of national strategy based on a thorough and objective assessment of the situation, an analysis of the reasons for the development of this situation, an assessment and arguments of the consequences of such a situation on the whole of the social environment and the resulting initial and final objectives, which must be achieved if the document is to be implemented in practice seriously and responsibly, also to a large extent. For us in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, it is a fundamental objective and a good traveller to this document to realize that it is essential to ensure that the drug problem is addressed at both national and local levels at least in equal terms with all other social, health, economic, educational and other social issues in the country, and on this basis also to take systemic measures. In order to reach this starting point, we believe that it is necessary to establish a coordinated and interdisciplinary approach, without mentioning a whole range of individual priorities and measures in both a preventive and accommodative sense, which will not allow the excessive favouritism of such or other programmes and thus allow too many grey foxes to face the problem of drug addiction and its resolution. In this context, we do not think it is good that the coordinating body, as an institution in the composition of the Government of Slovenia or a subordinated government directly to the government, is the drug office, which has been in recent years, can all be found to have somehow achieved some kind of rubicon in its efforts to improve the situation in this area, that this service, or this office, as a self-service so far, has been transferred to a service of dependence in the Ministry of Health. This is certainly not the best way forward for implementation, in a reasoned resolution on the national drug programme set targets. In our Group of Members, we can safely and confidently find that, as we monitor the integrity of the policy pursued by this time's Minister of Health in this field or the whole area of health care, there is no policy that would have impressed us that good service has been carried into this envelope so far. A little related to this issue, however, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that there is no justification for inadmissibility, which has already been shown at the hearing of the national assembly's home labour body, that high-level programmes or, in another word, psychosocial rehabilitation of drug addicts through therapeutic centres, communes and other asylums are not included in public financial support, as is the case with programmes implemented through medical institutions. It is certainly clear to me, and to many others, that there has been a discussion at the reception of many people and societies that have been doing their best in this area for many years, how difficult it is, and especially in terms of financial situations, to deal with the programmes that have been put in place. The Group will unanimously support the motion for a resolution, and before that we will support the amendment, which also establishes public financial support for the high-level programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Marko Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. The treatment of drug problems has changed considerably in Slovenia over the last decade. Since the failure or concealment of the problem of the use of illicit drugs, both countries and local communities have begun to fight this problem openly. Far from being ideal and for a good and effective fight against drugs and, above all, to help addicts, there will be a lot more to be done. With the establishment of a drug office, the government acknowledged the existence of the problem and was aware of its size and relevance to drugs in society today. It is illusional to expect that the use of drugs will be completely restricted or suppressed, but it is necessary to strive to limit the use of these drugs and to raise awareness of the consequences of doing so, especially of young people. The use and abuse of illicit drugs reflects the situation of our society, which is increasingly less friendly to the individual and especially to young people. These are already exposed to excessive pressure too soon. The school system has no merciful pressure on them to achieve the expected results. Young people have problems finding first jobs, solving housing problems, providing basic necessities of life. Our society faces a lack of values because life has become just one competition. Many of these competitions do not last and find their comfort in drugs, escape from reality. Isn't that guilt? Many times in this national assembly, we face correction of injustices. Slovenia, which is at the European Summit after the use of authorised drugs, where the quantity of alcohol consumed per capita is among the highest in Europe, does not give rise to confidence in an effective and quality fight against drugs. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that too little attention is paid to drug abuse. In 2001, about 550 people died from alcohol, some 3,500 from cigarettes, and 42 from illicit drugs. But unfortunately, society only moves at death because of the latter. Alcohol abuse means increasing the risk of traffic, promoting domestic violence, violence against young people and among them. Among illicit drugs, however, we are mostly afraid of dancing drugs that are clearly on the rise. Drug users are viewed by society as criminals, even though they are people who urgently need help. Many of them fear seeking help because they fear stigmatization. There should also be an immediate introduction of an alternative form of punishment for users and retail dealers, and for organised drug crime it is imperative to increase penalties, as these are the people who serve the fates of our young people. After entering the European Union, Slovenia will become a transit country and the flow of illicit drugs will most likely increase, and the resources, equipment and knowledge needed to be provided to the relevant authorities in the detection of drug trafficking and transport. In the Young Slovenia Party, we note that politics does not pay enough attention to this problem. The increased use of drugs leads to increased crime, social family problems. The worst consequences can be expected in the near future when they will be one of the worst problems, which will consequently affect the degree of development of our country. That is why it is all the more important that we do our utmost to prevent the number of drug users, particularly among young people. Effective and quality drug addiction prevention, treatment and social treatment programmes need to be put in place. In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the national drug strategy prepared by the Office of Drugs, but at the same time we are skeptical that it will never come to life. Above all, we are pleased to see the problem of drugs taken into account in an integrated and more than just a health problem. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the abolition and transfer of powers to the Ministry of Health of the Office of Drugs was a step backwards and will not allow this national strategy to be implemented. In the national strategy we miss a greater presence of the Youth Office, we believe that quality leisure is one of the best forms of prevention. In Slovenia, it would be necessary to introduce a control programme for those young people who have left school, as this group has many times become the worst problem. They are experiencing a personal crisis as they feel lost and the risk of using illicit drugs is increasing. Public works for addicts should also be introduced, as public works offer them opportunities to participate in society and the possibility of crime is reduced. We need to be aware that the drugs also cause parallel damage due to the use of them: infections, stigmatization of individuals, crime, the introduction of drugs into the country and the sale of drugs in Slovenia. All of these are risks, but not only for the addict anymore, but they are also risky for the entire population. It is therefore necessary to ensure effective programmes to reduce the damage not only to drug users, but to protect the health and property of all people. A drug user who does not have contagious diseases cannot infect others. It is therefore necessary to maintain the distribution of games and conceptual rooms in the national programme. Only a drug user working with institutions can help complete recovery. This may, however, be included in the treatment groups for recovery. Therefore, these programmes, although not directly, also contribute to the abstinence of drug users. Like other decisions in life, the drug user should also be left to decide on a suitable programme to reduce the use of drugs by himself. It is therefore necessary to maintain all the drug-restricting programmes now available. A drug user who chooses to try to stop his harmful habit needs all the help and medical care we can offer him. Thus, methadone programs that try to replace a drug addict with complete abstinence are more suitable for someone because they take place in the home environment. For others, programs in communes that run far away from the environment where an addict came into contact with drugs are much easier. But this is where there is a different funding. Methadone programmes are cheaper due to the day-to-day treatment of addicts, as no hospitalisation is necessary. However, the costs of other programmes are appropriately higher. What else should be covered by health insurance and the costs of taxpayers is a difficult issue. It does not seem necessary for a country to bear any costs of treatment and rehabilitation, for it advocates the view that drug users themselves are guilty of their addiction by their conduct. For others, especially those who are in any way related to the drug user, this is a condition which must be treated as any other condition. We believe that it is necessary to find a limit between one and the other. Addictions certainly need assistance, both in the treatment of dependence itself, where assistance from the State and the local community cannot be stopped. After the final treatment programme, a recovering addict still needs help in social integration into the environment from which he fell. Integration into the labour environment and employment, labour training and integration of lifestyle development, continuing education and assistance in education are only some of the activities in which the abstinent will need assistance. Particular attention should be paid to the family. The regulated family situation may be a very effective form of prevention, but I must point out that the regulated family situation is not just material things provided. Parents need to be warned that the most important relationships they have with their children are. Parents should also be aware that by their relationship with drugs, the child’s views on drugs are already formed in their early teens. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that the resources for preventive prevention of addiction are too small and that the government is unable to provide them. We wonder whether in the future it would be worthwhile to devote part of excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes in the form of a preventive tolar to preventive activities, to finance projects of non-governmental organisations dealing with drug issues and other projects that promote the quality of leisure. Above all, it seems important to us to provide funding for non-governmental organisations' projects, especially because they are able to respond quickly and respond to a changing problem. With the possible legalisation of marijuana, we will in the Party of Young Slovenia take the view that excise duties should be devoted exclusively to the fight against addiction, the abuse of both drugs and illicit drugs. In the Young Slovenia Party, we have been putting amendments into the budget for increasing funds to local action groups for years, but they have always been without support. Does not the proverb in the field of drugs, better to prevent than to treat, apply? Is it not better to devote a little more money to prevention than to devote enormous amounts later on to various forms of curative? In the Young Slovenia Party, we support the fight against drugs at local and regional level, as each place has its own specific drug problems. Drugs are not only a problem of urban centres, but they are also very quick to reach rural areas where we close our eyes many times. In the Young Slovenia Party, we have therefore suggested that our councilors in those places where local action groups are not yet operational should propose the establishment of these councils. Local action groups represent a solution to the problem at local level as an integrated problem. Above all, I stress that young people at local level should particularly be involved in solving the problem, as our experiences have shown that young people trust their peers better. The State must provide funds for the functioning of local action communities and provide them with access to information on the drug problem. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we are convinced that our company with rapid and timely measures can still prevent the rapid increase in addiction and abuse of all drugs and that it is useful and in the present toll on prevention rather than in the future significantly higher means of reducing damage. The task of the State is to enable young people to have an environment that is friendly to them, thus reducing risks in itself. Finally, let me mention the fact that there have been people in our house who have dedicated their part of their professional life and are also dedicated to drug issues. This is the former head of the Information Department, Mr Janez Pezelj, for which he also needs to be thanked from this city, and also from all others who devote their free time to this pressing social problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group or the Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u81	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleague. In the modern world, the abuse of illicit drugs, alcohol and tobacco is becoming an increasing global social problem, and all countries are putting in place appropriate drug measures to reduce the harm caused by the use of drugs on human health and the development of society. Slovenia, like many other countries in the world, is seeing an increase in the use of illicit drugs, an increase in the number of drug addicts, an increase in secondary crime and other harm caused by the use and abuse of illicit drugs. In Slovenia, we are experiencing more intensive drug abuse and all the consequences since 1990, when an epidemic of illicit drugs began to develop. At this time, there are also the first beginnings of a variety of programmes, which have developed from modest beginnings to today into modern drug-related aid programmes. Since then, in Slovenia we have developed a number of measures in the field of prevention, treatment, social treatment and drug trafficking prevention. In 1999, by adopting a law on the prevention of the use of illicit drugs and the treatment of users, we established a basic legal framework for this area and provided basic financial conditions for the development of a variety of programmes. At the same time, work on drug trafficking prevention was intensified. Systematic and professional work is also shown in the results achieved, as in Slovenia we have one of the lowest levels of HIV infection and hepatitis C among users of illicit drugs, and drug toxicity mortality is low compared to other countries of the European Union. However, the aid needed for the consequences of the use of drugs has a fairly good network of various aid programmes. A network of preventive programmes, treatment programmes and social rehabilitation has been developed. Special care is given to more vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, children, drug addicts, and others. The results achieved are due to the good organisation and functioning of the government sector. A partnership has been established between NGOs and the country. In dealing with the problem of illicit drugs, it is important to stress that in addition to illicit drugs, Slovenians also consume a lot of alcohol and tobacco, which are equally dangerous drugs for human health, so it would suggest that we combine our strengths in this area in the future and have a single action programme. Slovenia adopted the first national drug programme in 1992 and thus established the basis for organised activity in this area. The tasks were taken over by the National Implementation Committee of the National Programme, which coordinated tasks in this area until 1999 and then by the Commission on Drugs in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Office of Drugs of the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of legislation at the end of the 1990s provides the basis for the development of a national programme that is currently under consideration, which sets out a strategy for the prevention, treatment and resolution of social problems related to the use of illicit drugs. In the LDS, we estimate that it is well-prepared and will be a good guide for the effective implementation of illicit drugs policies and measures in the broadest possible sense. The problem of drugs is not only from a social or health point of view, but covers a much broader framework, and a multi-disciplinary, balanced and coordinated approach is therefore provided in the national programme, which should ensure that the different actions and coordinations are carried out at both local and national level in the future. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that one of the most important segments of the national programme is the area of prevention. According to our assessment, the proposed national programme adequately ensures the establishment of preventive programmes that reduce the demand for illicit drugs and drug use, with a fundamental aim of reducing the number of new drug users mainly among young people. The role of the school environment, the family and the local community to create the best possible conditions for the safe youth of the individual is stressed. In the LDS, we support the fundamental orientation of all the envisaged risk reduction and damage programmes, due to the use of drugs in achieving abstinence, but we try to be pragmatic in realising the current situation in society, so it is right that the national programme defines aid programmes for those who are drug-dependent and are not yet able to establish abstinence. In this context, it is right not only to support high-level, abstinence-oriented programmes, but also to provide programmes to help active users, with the aim of protecting individuals and societies against dangerous infectious diseases and social distress, and to provide these people with basic living conditions for survival while at the same time providing every individual who has entered the network with the option to make decisions for more demanding abstinence programmes. Important measures of the national programme include low-level programmes, such as field work with addicts, counselling, distribution of sterile initiation equipment, as we consider these to be modern professional approaches, which have demonstrated efficiency in many other countries. The countries that introduced these programmes have reduced the number of HIV and hepatitis C infections and other diseases that are transmitted via non-sterile drugs initiation devices and through sexual relations to part of the non-drug population. At the same time, the national programme provides sufficient quality and translation programmes for the treatment of addiction and thus provides opportunities for all those who choose to receive treatment in health care institutions and thus enable the early entry into the programmes of all those who want treatment. In doing so, we would particularly like to point out that the national programme also establishes appropriate drug-related social treatment programmes that ensure basic social security, treatment and rehabilitation of drug-dependent people. The use of methadone in the treatment of addiction is a widely accepted professional doctrine in the EU and the world. At present, over 400,000 opiates depend on this treatment in European Union countries. The decision to use medicines in the treatment of addiction leaves the national programme to the national professional colleges and the Health Council of the Ministry of Health. The solution in the national programme that these issues should be decided by the profession on the basis of scientific and professional knowledge and on the basis of studies of good practice, thus taking full responsibility for the proper implementation of the programme, is correct in our view. The resolution gives an appropriate emphasis to cooperation between the government and non-governmental sectors, as in fact the positive experiences of existing cooperation and very successful work in the single network are being built up in the interests of the users of their services. The programmes will be implemented by both government and non-governmental services, which together form an important aid network. In doing so, we support efforts to regulate the financing of NGOs and to ensure such conditions for their work so that they can carry out their mission even better and become an even closer partner in policy-making and programme implementation. In doing so, we advocate the implementation of the professional evaluation of all programmes and the financial evaluation for the development of the programme funding system only on the basis of a professional evaluation, which should be one of the most important criteria for the allocation of funds. Since the LDS Club has a clear position that drug users should not be treated in particular, we support the proposal to determine the quantity of disposable drugs that an individual may own and therefore will not be liable. We therefore believe that the law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs or by means of sub-laws should be amended to determine the quantity of disposable drugs, thereby eliminating doubts as to the quantity of disposable drugs that is still considered an offence. This will establish a clear border between the drug user who needs drugs to solve withdrawal problems and between drug dealers and those who fall within the framework of criminal law. At the same time, the programme also allows the individual who commits the offence to be included in treatment and social treatment programmes. By allowing the individual who has committed the offence to be included in one of the treatment and social treatment programmes, we join the EU countries that have adopted this approach and have had good experience in this area in both the form of reducing crime and the unnecessary concealment of drug users under impossible living conditions and the deterioration of their health status. The resolution on the national drug programme is also an important document in terms of integration with the EU and takes into account the EU's guidelines for this area. In fact, such documents have all the EU countries that then upgrade them with an action programme that details in more detail the roles of individual actors, including the financing of activities. Our government will also have to adopt an action programme on the basis of a national programme that will identify specific programme holders, their financial frameworks, the time to implement the programme and the criteria for the evaluation of each programme. Since the problem of drugs has an international dimension, intensive international cooperation is needed in this area, including an appropriate text submitted. Slovenia, as a single country and a close EU member, will continue to have to coordinate the drug strategy, in the European scale, and within the United Nations, on a global scale, along with the rest of the European Union. Another is closely related to drug trafficking, which is linked to corruption and money laundering. Therefore, the national programme also contains content on the prevention of drug trafficking and money laundering. We support the direction of the more severe punishment of drug traffickers, especially those who sell drugs to young people in schools or in the immediate vicinity of schools and centres where young people are detained, and activities in the field of money laundering and corruption, which are closely linked to drug trafficking. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we believe that the resolution on the national drug programme represents a comprehensive and balanced and interdisciplinary approach in the field of drugs. The implementation of the programme will be carried out by the Office of Drugs, which has been transferred to the Ministry of Health by law on the transfer of the tasks of certain government services to the Ministry of Health, to the position of independent unit directly subordinated to the Minister of Health and in charge of cross-sectoral coordination. Thus, despite some clear concerns which are certainly of their own weight, the Narcotics Office will be able to maintain sufficient power in advance to coordinate the day-to-day activities arising from the national programme and to provide sufficient, professional and administrative support to the Commission on Drugs at the government level, which, in our view, will not be compromised by inter-ministerial coordination. The resolution on the national drug programme is a reflection of the time we live in, a reflection of positive domestic and foreign experiences and knowledge and a document for a quality solution to drug problems in Slovenia. It has the support of the professional public and NGOs, so we will also support it in the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u82	The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The first point of the Slovenian National Party is that we unfortunately speak too late, unfortunately. We are talking too late about the national drug programme. And the second point of the Slovenian National Party is that, despite the desire and desire, the national programme is as incomplete and inconsistent and without any concrete solutions, as all the resolutions or programmes so far have been. At the outset, allow us to mention the wrong approach and application, I will go through individual segments that will show the image, i.e. the wrong approach and application, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the methadone programme or treatment, which is certainly not in our opinion. The methadone programme is nothing more than the replacement of one natural drug from the morphine group, mainly heroin, with more or less synthetic narcotics. There is also no significant difference in abstinence syndrome. The only rating that's valid is that drug addicts get drugs for free, they don't pay huge sums of money for it, and they're supposed not to interfere with other crimes. But that is not true, for many of us know a huge case of methadone trafficking, which the country shares in the so-called methadone programme. On the other hand, according to the Slovenian National Party, drug trafficking stimulates underdeveloped and skin-soldiers in written legislation, which does not limit the quantity of drugs or the use of drugs for its own use, but, within the time limit of the daily dose, allows possession of up to 40 grams, for example, heroin, as far as the highest known daily dose of this drug is so far. You would even think that those who have adopted such a law have only designed this on the basis of some economic objectives. Some, I hope you don't have to explain. The worst part about all of this is that criminal policy is completely incomplete. And as we can see from everyday life, none of the major or largest drug dealers have been punished to this day. This means, of course, that gentlemen who do so have very good connections there and where they could be caught and punished. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, for the sale of drugs from the hard drug segment and the design drugs segment, these are synthetic drugs based on amphetamines, I will reply, my respectable colleague Vukko, absolutely with great joy, and especially when it comes to the sale of these products after primary and secondary schools to students, to impose the most severe penalties. The strictest possible punishment. Usually, when we visited the Slovenian National Party and requested amendments to the Penal Code on Sexual Violence against Juveniles, of course, gentlemen were in charge of this. Why not? It's the same here. Ladies and gentlemen, the strictest punishment. In the Slovenian National Party, we advocate and say that it would make sense to exempt cannabis from criminal policy. That's our public statement. In our view, this poses a minor risk to the Slovenian population than anything else we have talked about. And that's it. In the Slovenian National Party we advocate a selective policy in the field of protection [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I hope you'll allow me a few more seconds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u84	Finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u85	before drug abuse, a more severe criminal policy in the field of drug trafficking and decriminalisation or legalisation of cannabis. [[...]] Once again, I say, the Slovenian National Party estimates that the national programme is written in order to maintain the current irregular and poor state. And finally, Mr. Wolf, I think the institutions that know exactly who these drug dealers are, what these institutions are going to do with them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u86	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u87	Yes, I think among the shortest, thank you very much. And just one more sentence. It's true, it's not just a matter of the Ministry of Health, it's true. First, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Family, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economy. Those who have met with drugs in the family know that the family is the basic cell of society, the basic cell of society keeps the state and society awake. And when someone in the base cell of society has someone for drugs, it collapses, it destroys, and so does the state. We're all responsible, not just one ministry or another. Mr Vice President, thank you so much for letting me even exceed a minute and a half! That's why we'll be quiet all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u88	You only planned five minutes for yourself. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The motion for a resolution will be discussed in its entirety. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. By the order of those present, Bojan Kontic gets the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national drug programme 2004/2009 is intended to replace or continue earlier in 1992. During this time, the situation with us in connection with drugs has certainly changed significantly. Accurate reading of the resolution indicates that the text of the resolution consists of three parts, which are in a very different way, and the facts are repeated several times. The form of the document, in my opinion, is no longer the right one. It would be more appropriate if the introduction was followed by a brief review of the situation, including a review of the legislation. This should be followed by a vision, priorities and strategy, and ultimately by an action plan that can be monitored. As I said, the situation has changed significantly in recent years. The illicit drugs have become our everyday routine. In local communities, we have taken action seriously within the so-called local action groups. It is precisely with regard to local action groups that the priority objectives of the resolution on the national programme are insufficiently concrete. What will be our model of integrated community cross-sectoral cooperation. Will the LAGs be the legal obligation of all local communities or not? Will we support the inter-ethnic participation of local action groups? Nor is there anything defined in the priority objectives for international cooperation and the provision of political and financial support. Otherwise, this is covered by the general objectives, but given the time of entry into the European Union, it would also make sense to include this in the strategy's priority objectives. The organisation of the Documentation Centre and the Advisory Service for the collection, editing and reporting of data within the Ministry responsible for coordination in the field of drugs is welcome. Such documentation centres and advisory services should also be in local communities where, in addition to collecting, editing and providing data, each individual should be monitored from the beginning to the end of treatment. With teamwork and coordinated work, each individual could be told what is happening to him at a certain time and place. The strategy states that drug prevention is an integral part of the current curriculum in the school environment. However, it is not said to what extent and content, since prevention is a very broad concept. Let me also mention the present fear of the abolition of the drug office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the drug office has so far covered all programmes in the organisation of the public sector and NGOs, while the Ministry of Health has always financially and systematically supported mainly health programmes, to a large extent a methadone programme. Who will the LAGs be able to address in the future, with whom they can cooperate? My colleague Tsukati spoke about financing the treatment of addicts. I feel the same way about those who deal with these problems in a humane way on the ground. It would be necessary for the State to provide for, in the framework of the principle of human rights protection, a resolution on the national drug programme and later to regulate health insurance for persons going to treatment and rehabilitation abroad. Above all, let me conclude that the story of illicit drugs is a missed opportunity as soon as it actually appears. The emphasis must be on prevention. But here in recent years, unfortunately, we have been quite late, because those involved in drug trafficking are always one step ahead of those they discover. Besides, we hate to admit that drugs are always around us and that we are constantly at risk. The problem is also that people notice the adopted ones in particular and, apart from the few exceptions, they want to put them on the brink of our society. And our eyes shut down and tolerate drug dealers until we're directly threatened. This will take a decisive step forward. Despite my concerns in the introduction, I will support the resolution because it opens up or suggests the possibility of a successful confrontation and rehabilitation of this very sensitive area. In the end, let me just say, addicts need help and not punishment. And this is where the national programme is headed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. I will briefly address some of the issues raised in the resolution on the national drug programme tabled. We're probably the only ones in this room that's the most important prevention. And prevention is probably very bad at the time we live. The environment is unfavorable, the possibility of the necessary time both in family life, in order to actually have a young person's opportunity, enough time with parents to provide the necessary education for further life. This time, which is a time of hurry, is unfavorable and is increasingly less time-consuming for the necessary additional activities of young people, both in the field of sport, culture and other activities that actually raise the young person into a perfect person. It is no wonder, therefore, that at this work and also at the work to which we are part of the world that this problem of drug use has actually gained so wide a dimension at this time. For this reason, I believe that it is indeed high time for society to step together here as a whole, especially in the preventive field, to ensure better conditions for normal family life, better conditions for young people to participate in sport, in the field of culture, in the local area and, of course, to increase the tightening of penalties for all drug traffickers. And what has also been said today, certain persons who are drug dealers are also associated with certain institutions or individuals in institutions that enable this truly very immoral activity and easy to earn. I believe that more needs to be done here in this preventive work and in the second part, criminal. Now, however, I would also touch on the question of how and which of these addicts the country should be obliged to pay for the possibility of being treated. I can honestly say I don't understand the approach. Why this national programme, like the methadone programme, does not allow health care, insurance and, of course, the payment of services to people who serve high-level programmes, is said to be trying to achieve abstinence from drugs, we know that these are so-called day centres, therapeutic groups, communes or whatever we call them. What's this all about? This company should also provide health care in this case to persons who have decided to actually become drug abstinences in both the drug and drug fields, as well as in the field of alcohol use and so on. And if these areas are allowed or are included in healthcare, then I find it extremely irresponsible not to allow this in this area. And at least what we can do, we can do that by correcting it in the form of an amendment. I'll just give you a heads-up. Those abstinents or those who try to permanently recover from the use of drugs can do so if they are well placed, if they are socially disadvantaged or do not have adequate income, which we know is the majority of them in this country, then these addicts cannot become abstinent at any time because the state does not allow them to do so. And that is why I expect, of course, this is also one of the parts of the amendments, that when we vote on this amendment, no matter which side it came from, it came to support it, because I think we will do wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you. Branko Kelemina wants to discuss it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The national programme in this area is certainly needed now, no doubt. Now, whether the guidelines in this national programme are correctly defined or not, each has its own subjective view of this regulation. However, I think it is true in this programme that it is necessary to say again and again that drug trafficking or the whole system of drug use and the whole of the world is likely, in the first place, a large business and also some kind of economic activity that is not taxed in general, and that this is the main motive that will actually make it extremely difficult to deal with drugs far in the future. The big business is not just for shoppers, it is also obvious for consumers, because sooner or later they start to engage in shopping, it is definitely, probably also a business for health care, for employees and even for a lot of people, which I do not want to point out that I will not offend them, the Jepa definitely that there is a lot of involved in this system. I used to be very restrictive about defending the prevention of drug use, of course, today I have a different view of everything. Last time I was asked, say, in an interview, if I still advocate that drug users should be shut down. No, I don't think they need to be locked up; certainly not if they don't steal and kill because they use drugs, they certainly don't have to be locked up if they have their money, they can do anything with their lives, and they can do anything with their money. But the problem is that sooner or later they're not just going to do it on their own account, but they're also going to do it on my account, on your account and on the account of everyone who's not just addicted to drugs, but in this country they're somehow creating and living a normal life. So I'd agree with what was said. And the best speech that came closest to me was actually a speech by a colleague from the National Party. I am thus joining in that there is a need to substantially tighten penalties for traffickers and all those involved in this system. If these penalties were indeed effective or high enough and the traffickers were sufficiently effectively persecuted, this could be the reason why they would be slightly less involved in this activity and then there would be a little less of this drug on our market. In short, I think this national programme is necessary, but in many ways it is lacking. The effectiveness of our institutions in this area is, I must say, extremely poor. And that with certain measures such as the methadone programme and so on, certainly we will not prevent the use of drugs. In particular, much more should be done in the area of education and education of children from kindergartens forward. I think that all these things are easily addressed by other institutions, such as, say, Christian education and so on. In short, it's out of our society and it doesn't apply completely. However, I firmly believe that all those who are Christianly raised are significantly less susceptible to drug use, and it is in this area that we should move forward and think modernally. And I firmly believe that the results would not have been missed. In short, I will not oppose the adoption of this national programme, even though I am not impressed with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you. Mario Gasparini has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, welcome! Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia lies on the important transit routes used by manufacturers and drug dealers. In recent years, the supply of drugs has increased, while access to drugs has also increased and new drugs have begun to be used. The situation therefore required a more detailed regulation of this issue. In Slovenia, we can share the past period of the Slovenian company with the problems of the use of illicit drugs in at least three periods. From 1990 to 1994, he dominated a repressive model of dealing with drugs, which he replaced primarily with health-related measures. We have put entirely new legislation, which is from the 1991 repression of a targeted model, through the health problems of a targeted model in 1999 to the integrated model of dealing with drugs described and presented in this national programme. Towards the late '90s. Over the years, we have managed together to establish an integrated and global approach to addressing the problem of illicit drugs. The first national drug abuse prevention programme in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 1992. In Slovenia, the programme focused on drug activity for 10 years, containing basic drug measures, has been extremely advanced in its time. It identified activities in the field of prevention of addiction, treatment of drug dependence, social treatment of illicit drugs and reduction of supply. The programme also contained elements of the programme for the improvement of damage, which was later incorporated into the new legislation. In 1999 and 2000, three other necessary laws were adopted in the field of prevention and production and trafficking of illicit drugs. In 1991, the establishment of drug prevention and treatment centres in Cyprus and Ljubljana began to develop a public health model for drug management, which included methadone treatment prescribed by some doctors before 1990. At the same time, Slovenia has introduced medical, social and other programmes, both high-level and low-level, and therefore, according to the Institute for Health Protection, has a very low infection of the hepatitis virus and HIV virus among drug users, as it points to timely implementation of appropriate measures. We also have comparatively fewer deaths due to drug poisoning than other European countries. We are now ahead of the adoption of a national programme that will address this issue for the next 5 years. The key objectives of the programme are to improve the information system, increase the share of drug users to be included in the programmes, support to NGOs. Assess all programmes for which multi-annual funding is envisaged in the field of drugs and, in this way, evaluate and clearly define the criteria for funding. At local level, a model of integrated community and cross-sectoral cooperation needs to be further developed in order to examine the situation and, consequently, to plan joint measures to improve the demand for and supply of illicit drugs. These are so-called local action groups. It is also proposed to determine the minimum quantity of prohibited second for self-use, which is considered to be an offence and to determine in particular alternative penalties, such as voluntary work in humanitarian organisations and the like. In the discussions accompanying the consideration of the motion for a resolution, the most concerns were the use of methadone as a means of treating addiction, as many argue that methadone treatment does not lead to abstinence. They also considered that the methadone programme was a privileged programme for discrimination at the expense of other programmes. The fact remains that all world organisations are recommending as the best programme for the largest number of drug users a methadone programme. With regard to the support of NGOs, at second reading, we adopted an amendment at the home labour body saying that the State must provide adequate financial assistance to implement the programmes of non-governmental organisations. The next hotspot was the status of the drug office. Many debaters considered that the resolution and monitoring of the drug problem continued within the Government Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs. The fact is that, under the law on the transfer of the tasks of certain government services to the Ministry from 1.4.2004, the statutory tasks of the Office of Drugs are transferred to the Ministry of Health. I believe that the national drug programme is well prepared and suitable for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you. Jaša Złobec Lukič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There was a long discussion, you all talked about drugs, but no one mentioned the worst drugs in Slovenia. 100,000 adult men in Slovenia are serious alcoholics who do not have a chance to get out of alcohol claws. They're all over the country where men wake up catty and they're already guilty this afternoon. But that's all right. Also for athletes who drink a glass of September wine after the game, it is normal. But he was a young handball player who only once pulled a smoke of marijuana, and he was expelled for three months. The perfect tolerance for alcohol is valid. This is also evident in the lobby of our congregation at all times, and this is something completely normal. What are the consequences in the family, how many broken families there are, how many families that hide their inner decay -- all because of alcohol. If we take nicotine, which is also a heavy drug, and we have hundreds and hundreds of people who die from lung or oesophageal cancer, and that's actually all normal, because obviously we live in a world where cancer is normal, where delirium Tremens is normal. But if someone just hears, say, cocaine, but it's some kind of heavy drug, and this man needs to be shut down right now. In short, Slovenians are living a complete lie about what drugs are and what drugs are actually dangerous for our population. We talk about one thing as if we were talking in some sanatoriums or processing plants, while life goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u98	Dushan Wolf gets the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I was a little surprised by that speed. Drugs and their abuse are a reality. This fact cannot be disputed. It is not possible to blind ourselves and pretend to be an oasis. But I'm afraid we don't always know that. Cash, to me, to my loved ones, to my children, that can't happen. How misleading any discouragement in this regard will be, in my opinion, punish us. Drugs don't warn, drugs don't allow experimentation when they touch, grab, hold, torture, and don't let go, unfortunately they do. That is why it is right to fight drug abuse. The resolution before us is, in my opinion, only a plan to fight this evil. Whether we will succeed in this fight depends on a number of factors that the resolution, on paper, really well, correctly imposes. I'd point out four of them. The success of the fight will depend, in my opinion, on the level of visibility of the drug problem in society, on the level of public perception of this issue and the awareness of all individuals and on the degree to which preventive measures are appropriate. What about repression, can we ask ourselves? In recent years we have witnessed some resounding and successful actions in detecting various heroin ties, the Kolo action, and not to mention. However, I regret to note that, at lower levels, police work is too often focused primarily on consumers and not on sellers and drug dealers. All too often, drug users, those who are weaker, those who are easier to detect, those who are easily bullied because they are in such a mental and physical state that they can't even say it and they don't understand it on the other hand. This is, in my opinion, a special emphasis, prevention and elimination. And since this in some way indicates a resolution, I will support this resolution. It is aware that the fight against drug abuse will be long, exhausting, so it is right to prepare for this fight today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please. You don't want to. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The programme is balanced, consistent and global. The problem of drugs covers all social spheres from the public sector to private, non-governmental organisations and local action groups. On finding that drugs are present in urban areas as in smaller towns in Slovenia, it seems very important to develop and coordinate the activities of a comprehensive approach to solving the drug problem at local level, with a focus on preventive activities. And this resolution contains a vision of the interaction and integration of municipalities with regard to the problem of drugs, but there is no indication of a systemic solution to funding at the level of the municipalities. This means that today the problem of drugs is being dealt with as a superstandard task by municipalities that are financed by additional own incomes and not by other municipalities. Drug policy is not yet included in any law on local self - government and not in any other field law among the congregation’s compulsory tasks. However, we know that problems are being effectively solved in environments where they are also emerging, so I appeal to the professional and political public that drug policy in the local environment is systematically and financially regulated. The additional problem I see and would like to highlight in this debate is discrimination against people who are addicted to drugs. After the constitution, we are all citizens of Slovenia before the law, and this is all too often lacking in practice. The implementation of all the objectives and principles of this national programme also requires better civil public participation, as it is often stuck in the actual implementation of the provisions in a specific environment. But as for the methadone programs, which, of course, everyone over them, I will say, we are not very excited, but I can only mention that I have informed experts, colleagues of doctors who deal with these matters and despite my frequent objections in this direction, they point this out to me, but do not abandon the methadone programmes, because people who are on drugs feel rejected, not even the people, while experts advocate that methadone therapy should return, to say, the specimens, if I call them, to people again. In short, people are supposed to become methadone people and urge us to support and enable at least that decent human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be led by the amendment review of 26.2.2004. First, I am putting an amendment to Chapter 1.4.2.4 into the debate. - We prevent in the local environment and in civil society. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group was tabled. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Chapter 1.4.2.3.1 - Treatment of drug users in the context of healthcare. The amendment of two New Slovenia parliamentary groups, two amendments, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia parliamentary group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, has been tabled. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Creek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u103	First, I would like to thank you for all the well-spoken words about the office and the program. And for all the critics. I have faithfully written them, and I will also include them with my fellow workers in further activities. However, in this amendment, we must say that this is a highly technical issue that needs to be addressed in the professional environment, and that is why the document has also been defined by the national strategy. And if you read the national strategy very carefully, you will see that there is no mention of methadone anywhere. Nowhere is that word mentioned, and we think it is imperative that this issue be resolved in the extended professional colleges of the Republic and in the health council.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on Chapter 1.4.2.3.2. - Programmes for the resolution of social problems, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and open the debate to Chapter 1.4.3. - Activities to reduce the supply of drugs and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of the amendment and Chapter 1.6.1. - At the level of the country and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to the consideration of Chapter and Amendment 1.7.1. Instruments and amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. And the last amendment of the same motions to Chapter 1.8.1. - It's a budget. Since no one wants to discuss, also here, I conclude the debate and inform you that we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the 16.15 vote. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government and the Office very much for their cooperation. At 4:15 a.m., we will therefore move to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u105	Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Please be so kind as to check the operation of the voting apparatus first. Are they all right? Then we will move to a vote on the proposals for decisions. We are at the 17th item on the agenda, and we continue with the suspension of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2004-2007. We will first decide on the amendments tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution. We're at chapter two, introductory. We have the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please, Comrade Shirtz, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, above all, respectable motioners! I would like to point out that the amendment to the chapter you tabled under the principles of cultural policy will not be supported because it would be bad, not at all. But that's because if we accepted him, things would double up. I recognise that the text has key definitions and covers the key principles of future cultural policy; I recognise that it very well defines the principle of decentralisation of cultural policy; I recognise that it also covers the rigid regulation of the public sector, with administrative funding and with a number of other chapters covered by the already mentioned text of the national programme in other words. What may not be covered by my views is only the last three indents, which try to establish some kind of aesthetic criteria and separation within socio-moral efficiency and formal knowledge, which is particularly in the light of the thinking of the European Union, which absolutely adheres to the principle of the shift in aesthetic decision-making of the country from one side to another, is not the most up to date. Only to point out that if my vote is against, it will not be because of the weakness of the text, but because it would double the text at certain points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u107	We're moving on to decision-making. My friend Tanko wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. See, the explanation given by Shirce’s colleague shows that this supplement, this chapter is not bad and in some ways very well complements the content of the national programme. I think it is right that principles are written in the national programme for culture, because otherwise, there is a considerable potential for culture to interfere with culture and non-culture, for different things other than culture are of greater interest to individuals who control culture. I think it is right that these principles also include the last three indents, which are very important, because in the end the entire content of the cultural field is defined, profit is shared as works of art and, after all, there is a basis for separation between what we call some kind of expression, and then extremism and also extremism. In short, it is essential to separate from non-essential, and I think it is right that these principles are written and, above all, taken into account in this humanistic work that they are receiving today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u109	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members in Chapter II of the introduction, pardon, yet another explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u110	Also, I will not support this amendment, even though I am in some way joining this view that there is something very correctly written in it. I'm disturbed by two things I've already said in this discussion. I don't think it's possible to say this anymore on average: the American mass culture that penetrates, it's only about the fun effect -- it just doesn't, because, coming from America, it can, like any other culture, very valuable literary works, works that, I remember in the previous regime, meant a whole new way of looking from Hemingway, etc., which we've been reading on the cover of not talking about other movies, etc. And it can also come from a bad German culture or whatever, and this way you can quickly say anatomy against what kind of literary work we don't have in our heart, and we say, this is an American party. And perhaps, I do not understand this well that the next paragraph of the dispute will be put on the other hand, that policy should avoid valuable relativism. I just think that politics should not especially value that judgments in literature are relative in art. Of course, there is something that is known to be crucial that is worth it, but many of the frontier spheres are relative to someone and I simply would not avoid it. I will not support the amendment, although some other things seemed correct to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u111	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, allow me to confirm what I said in the discussion. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is pointless to amend the national cultural programme, that it is our common good and that our culture and our national consciousness are as it is. Therefore, we will not define ourselves around any amendments in the Slovenian National Party, as we have said, but we will end up supporting, of course, the national cultural programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u113	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 2 - Introduction. 67 present, 16 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment was not accepted. Chapter 5 - Objectives and actions in specific areas of culture under Chapter 3 - Visual arts. We are voting on the first amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I will simply deny the support of this amendment and would remind those who were really interested in this debate of the words spoken in this Chamber by the representatives of these institutions, which this amendment brings together. Under the line, this meant roughly that it would constitute a major confusion of the legal, substantive and organizational establishment of such a type of museum, would intervene in the establishment of relations, such as the Municipality of Krško, the founding relationship of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipality of Ljubljana. I don't really know that kind of museum lately. Increasingly, there are trends in the creation of individual segments of art activities in special specialised museums and the promotion of certain segments is built on them. That would certainly be a step back, not forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u115	My friend Partich. No, no, no. Please. Okay, we can make a decision. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. A few words about the first amendment to this chapter. The fact is that some of the sectoral laws we have adopted in this National Assembly have brought about certain changes in co-financing of culture at the local level, particularly certain programmes that are not compulsory public service, and I must say that this means certain disruptions in the financing of these institutions, particularly in the areas of museums and galleries. And in this case, if the local community wants to maintain the programme, this means additional burdens because it has dropped a significant part of the co-financing share, not entirely, but an essential part, or the abandonment of the programme. This, in its domestic sense, says that in environments that are economically weaker, where municipalities receive financial compensation already for legal obligations, it is almost mandatory to reduce programmes or, in other words, additional pressure on centralisation or withdrawal, the disappearance of culture from these areas. And everything's retreating to the big centers. In short, this development in these areas needs to be halted and culturally settled. I do not think it is right that, in all these declarations, the National Assembly, which speak of coherent regional development, adopts laws that are in one part totally contrary to these public statements, particularly in the government part of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u117	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then we will now decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 3 - Performing art. We're voting. There's 68, 16 for and 45 for us. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] We are voting on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 3 - Performing art. There's 58, 13 for and 36 for us. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] The second amendment has not been adopted either. We are at chapter 6 of the book, and we have two amendments. The first is the SDS Member Group, the second LDS Member Club. Anybody want to explain their voice? She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I take the floor by commenting on the first amendment, the amendment of the SDS Group, which, according to my reading, is very discriminatory, especially because it places itself in a position to separate one creativity from another or to despise one creativity from another. It says that in the age of computers and television there is a tyranny of higher-a-vis books and reading, and that the fascination with images is transformed into tyranny, and that the authors of this amendment also put themselves in the role of those arbitrators who deny the role of audiovisual culture, in fact, of a newer artistic nature, but therefore no less valuable. Thank you. Of course I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u119	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u120	I'll vote against it, too. I have a granddaughter who sometimes sits on the couch watching only TV. But it's true, as you know, I've been the president of a reading badge for seven years, where we've studied quite professionally the impact of the media on reading books. And I tell you, it's not really the media that threatens books. The one who doesn't read books doesn't read them because of television, or else he doesn't read them. No research has supported the idea of taking a pregnant man away from a book. It's in our heads and clichés. I was convinced by experts, Bible teachers, that this is what I said it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u121	Please, colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support this amendment. A lot of the arguments of the previous two colleagues could be summed up, but I will only bring to your memory the last case: The Lord of the Rings brings together two different artistic areas, both the reading culture and the classical book as well as the modern visualization of this art. It seems to me that there are other examples to be followed. Just as the puppet theater did not destroy the film and cartoon, the book will not destroy the modern media presentation in a different way, it is said, in a picture. So I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u123	We'll decide. First, on the amendment of the SDS Group to sub-chapter 6 - Book. 65 present, 18 for and 43 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We will now decide on the amendment of the LDS. My friend Skull wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I'd like to. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Jerovšek, I would like to assure you that, like yourself, you will support this amendment, which imposes some important novelty - to form a budget fund and to set the minimum number for this fund, which is comparable to the collection of VAT per book. This fund itself would solve some problems for authors and some problems for publishers. Since these things are described very precisely in this amendment and are also in line with the expectations of housing societies and most of these smaller publications participating in these projects, it would be very good if they were supported, regardless of political divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u125	At the same time, they raised their hand for the word of their colleague Jerovšek and colleague Bevk, and someone else – colleague Petan and colleague Partljič. Please, after this order.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u126	Without the invitation of my colleague, Školč would support this proposal, as in our party, we will consistently support all that is useful and good, regardless of the color of the applicant. Unfortunately, there has not been the same approach in this debate so far. For this reason, I also think it is useful to establish this budget fund for this purpose in order to better disentangle these matters in this part of the culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amendment, which will further consolidate the position of the Slovenian original and translational beauty and humanist creativity, which the Association of Slovenian Writers particularly advocated in the public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u129	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So I will also support this amendment, because it seems to me that to some extent it complements ours, which, of course, our colleagues did not want to support, they argued that this is not necessary - additional care for books. And the explanation is that if someone doesn't read, they don't read. According to this logic they scored their own goal because they also wrote here, at the final stage, that "the goal of improving the position of creators and providing targeted forms of support to individual articles of the book chain that have a significant impact on the state of the entire area." That is to say, if one who does not read read reads like that does not benefit him. But that is not the case, and I am pleased that these amendments have been proposed, because they have demented themselves, and because this is also in support of our amendment, which you have not supported, of course we will gladly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u131	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u132	First of all, thank you very much to all those who have said so far that they will support, including my forerunners. I guarantee that I have not voted for party reasons and even say that the Democratic Party has put a great deal of commitment into this national programme. You know, I'm a scratcher somewhere else, maybe in culture, not in the National Assembly, but in the truth, I have to say that I first tabled such an amendment, and in public debate, as you know, he also called Participant's amendment, which was more awkward and was not accepted on the Committee in the first stage. And I thank my colleague, Školč, who has taken care of himself and prepared such a form that is acceptable to all, including the team from the Ministry who opposed me, and after the dialogues here has now found a common language and so one more awkward formulation has been accepted, even at the will of the writers that I had on the committee and I thank you with this and I invite you to support the amendment also the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u133	She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u134	Allow me to present my problems with this amendment. The problems stem from the explanation given to the Government's Committee on Culture and were based on the assumption that, in so far as the budget fund is not a public fund, but a budget fund, the allocation from VAT would be much smaller than those currently being invested by the State in supporting the book. Indeed, the wording of the amendment has changed somewhat. What worries me, of course, is that, because of this budget fund, it would not be possible for the State to change its mind, namely, to reduce the funds for the book. I regret that another step has not been taken, namely that this budget fund, which is actually a second word for budgetary resources, because it is not yet rich with other resources, does not propose in the form of a public fund, where publishers can also have their own programming decisions and, even so, I would say, withdraw from the substantive assessment of publishing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u135	We all understood that this explanation of the problem was the explanation of the vote, Comrade Podobnik. Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we'll move on to the decision. We're at the amendment of the LDS. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 57, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] We're at sub-chapter 7 - Media and Audiovisual Culture. We have four amendments tabled. It's all filed by the LDS House of Representatives. We're at the amendment under order number one. We're voting. Comrade Jerovšek raised his hand, he wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u136	Respectable. Among these amendments, this is under the order number two, although we understand or understand, is also envisaged by the LDS Group of Members, this is said to be the leading political party which has in its power the majority of the media, of course, the abolition or deletion of the programme objective of the creation of the Republic of Slovenia's media fund. We know how pressing this issue is, how in all the reports of the State Department and the European Commission there is the fact that our editors and journalists are under pressure of self-censorship. And this self-censorship, of course, is very obvious and is happening. I understand the press and editors. Under pressure from owners and ruling policies that shape their destiny, they must be susceptible or remiss. That's the last time we had a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u137	We're at the first amendment, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u138	I'm explaining. Under the second amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u139	We're at the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u140	Aren't we all?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u141	No, no, no. At the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u142	I'm sorry. I'll finish. Mr Potrč mentioned that on their side there is a large majority of commentators in the newspapers, and he freely admitted that. I thank him for this confession, but it shows a picture of media plurality in our country. And it's no wonder that then the editor of the main government newspaper wrote before the hottest political theme in the editorial entitled "Gentlemen, we are no longer going." This is said to be censorship, a blockade on some part of political reporting, and at the same time the same topic is published daily by Mr Krivica's escapades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u143	I suggest that we explain our vote in the way that I lead the decision on the amendments. Now we're at the first. My friend Battelli wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very pleased to support this amendment, because it refers directly enough to the fact that there is a great lack of knowledge among young people about international historical and national, as we call them, the masterpiece of film. And it is impossible at some video store in Slovenia today to get Chaplin or Renoir, Fellini or Bergman or anything. Of course, Kinoteka is doing a good job in Ljubljana, but only in Ljubljana. And young people do not know these masterpieces, but they are essential to what I would call the creation of a person’s personality and attitude toward the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u145	I'm guessing no one wants to explain their voices anymore. Thus we turn to the vote on the first amendment of the LDS Club to Chapter 7 - Media and Audiovisual Culture". We're voting. 70 present, 55 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at the second amendment of the LDS. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will not support this amendment. This is also the only amendment that says the government disagrees with him. It is the amendments tabled by the LDS fellow Members. We will support all others in the Group of Members. We will not support this for the next reason. When we were on the working body and this amendment was adopted - I think it was also adopted with the support of some colleagues from the parliamentary group who are now proposing to delete - it was said that in the media law procedure, which provides for a budget fund for the media. In our view, this document, the national cultural programme, is the right place to write in it that, therefore, as a form of promoting media pluralisation and support, the Fund would also be. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u147	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. First of all, the conclusion that the obvious coalition has collapsed, because so far we have always had amendments signed by all four parties, now I see that they are only one-sided. The other thing I would like to say is that developed countries, too, support the emergence of new media, have a fund and also very developed countries that have a centuries-old democracy, want to make progress in this area, develop competition. However, with us there is obviously the most liberal party in this national council, which advocates such liberal and even liberal matters, the one who tables an amendment and prevents exactly what is liberal and which would release the breadth or diversity in this media space. In short, I think this is a very xenophobic move in this area, and it is also not in line with the media law, which even has the envisaged fund or is being upgraded with the proposal. And simply this proposal, which you have proposed, just means maintaining transition gains in the field of the media. It's absolutely nothing else. And you protect yourself in a way or prevent the competitiveness and closure of this competitive area, as well as destruction in the essence of thinking and suppressing those who would like to express certain things differently. In short, we can't support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u149	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. So, I am appalled at this proposal by the largest party in Slovenia, as well as of course in this Parliament, that it comes up with such an idea that it is against pluralisation of the media to have the fund. You have a lot of reference to Europe, and as far as I know Europe, but I can know it wrong, but I think not, the interest is that we have plural media, that we have as much width as possible, that we have a larger palette, and also a political rainbow, and they especially recommend for transition countries that we have plural media. Now, if this amendment were maybe a year earlier or two earlier, I'd understand. But that's at this time, and that's -- well, I said I was disgusted and I stayed with that expression. On the other hand, what we have already heard in this hall today, I understand to some extent. For the previous words, that if anyone does not read, but does not read, and then is all for nothing; but let us leave him alone, that he may remain as he is, without striving to read any book or even the newspaper, is utterly wrong. But if this mentality prevails with the largest party and, of course, all those who supported it to agree with such thinking, then I understand that such an amendment could have occurred. But you know, this is not exactly the 2004 amendment, and for a country that is included in the European Union, and especially when we are full of the mouth of Europe and European principles and European principles and European views and European requirements, I don't know what else is European. This is also in line with that statement, which we have already heard how many commentators support a position. Of course, I cannot support it, and I am appalled at it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u151	My friend Potts, my colleague Moge is right behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u152	I will not support this amendment. The first reason is because it is not supported by the government. Secondly, because I understand the promotion of media pluralism completely differently than we understand just speaking colleagues from a democratic party. Media pluralism is not a question of how and who writes in an individual newspaper, but it is a question of how many newspapers or radios or televisions, what is the different media genre, whether they have the right to be played by all different subjects and so on. And the last. Because of the warnings given by my colleagues from the SDS, I will not support this, even though their warnings are least justified. Gentlemen, if you are so kind as to listen, to talk about media pluralism on your part and at the same time allow yourself to condemn someone who is similarly written, because he has commented in a foreign newspaper that he has not given at all, and at the same time to talk about media pluralism, to have public opinion polls that you are present on television in substantially more than a quarter of cases every fourth day, and in some days every day, it seems to me that he is slightly double-faced and in this way, gentlemen, do not talk about this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u153	Voice explanation - colleague Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Used to give culture to politics, we saw it today in the debate, centuries ago. In this debate, however, I feel that politics wants to give culture. The establishment of this fund, in addition to allowing the media to co-finance the media in article 4 in the last paragraph, that at the time we said that the priority of the media exposed is audiovisual media, seems to me to be this way of introducing this in the market economy - because we have political newspapers. Don't let anyone tell me that democracy isn't a political newspaper. Don't let anyone tell me that MAG doesn't control a certain space of politics here because these things are being marketed a lot. In order for the state to now establish a special fund and that the ruling coalition that manages this fund will take care of media pluralisation, then these arguments, ladies and gentlemen, are very much at stake for me. That's why it seems to me that we're not going to make it through this and that even in the media law, which has succeeded in a procedure with a similar fund, I'm talking about that if this fund is created, small parties and those who are not currently in power will receive less of this pluralisation of the media than those who will, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] If I look at this fund through the optics of the one who now advocates why such a fund is important. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u155	Anybody else want to explain their voice? My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u156	I will vote against this amendment. In recent days our media has widely quoted the US Foreign Ministry's report on the state of human rights in Slovenia, but these quotations are flawed. The ones you read [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u157	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u158	This report as a whole, then you know that the introductory part lists three of the most critical points. [[..]] The first is that the government in Slovenia still manages at least 50% of the Slovenian economy directly. The second is that national media do not reflect the entire political spectrum, and the third is that there is press self-censorship due to political and economic pressures. Much more attention is paid to this than to mosques or so-called deleted ones. Unfortunately, this has not been highlighted in recent days. From these discussions, which we have heard in these explanations today in support of this amendment by the largest government party, it is also clear why the situation is so and why the next report is likely to make it even worse if we have the same in power, so I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u159	She's Shirtz's colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u160	Of course, it is a completely wrong understanding of what this fund is for the media, and of understanding, as Mr Janša calls it, which the media fund understands as a political fund, through which media space should be regulated or even controlled, of course, in this respect, such a fund is absolutely unacceptable. However, to support the amendment is one more reason, and it is best to quote what journalists themselves say within their own newspapers: "Which gap would therefore fill the media fund when certain forms of financial assistance are already provided." Two are guaranteed: the one referred to in Article 4 of the Media Act and the one referred to in Article 102 of the Media Act, which provides for some other means not only state resources which the State has not recovered at present - membership from operators referred to in Article 112. In short, the funds are already there. In fact, we already have some kind of fund or budget, the question is, and the article also discusses how they are divided and how they support infrastructure and support the audiovisual content ordered by the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u161	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is certainly supported and the reasons are mainly historical experience. Of course I'll back him up myself. But it seems to me that the main embarrassment for those who do not see the benefits of this amendment is the historical experience. We had our own time a special fund that was "like" for the pluralisation of the media, but with it we established the Slovenians and we saved the debts that Democracy had accumulated before we declared a separate state. That's what this is about. And in this case, it's something else, it's really about the development of the media, and that's why I don't think we need to think of it as a tool for rehabilitating politically flawed projects, but an opportunity to open our media space and therefore recommend to everyone that they vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u163	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u164	Look, we have a fund in the basic system that supports audiovisual production. The text as amended by the committee shall be terminated by this Fund. The amendment, which I will now support, supports the Audiovisual Production Fund back. What is the danger of this amendment? Danger, pardon - the danger of a solution as it is now if the amendment is not accepted. The media fund will first reduce resources to promote quality visual production in the field of culture. It will reduce the potential for radio and television regional and local stations that can run for support for audiovisual culture. It will reduce the resources that should be provided to support independent producers, not individual houses. However, it provides a solution to the media fund, which is close, unfortunately, to the Ministry of Culture, the possibility of political treatment for the distribution of money to individual media. The meaning of support in this area of culture from the point of view of European documents - and believe that I know them at least as well as Mr Petan - is the provision of quality audiovisual production. The purpose of the national programme for culture is to ensure the preservation of language and this culture over a long period of time, but not to preserve, I will say, these political privileges or client statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u165	We're making a decision. There's 68, 42 for and 22 for us. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the third amendment of the LDS. We're making a decision. This one's been adopted, too. 66 present, 49 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] And now we're at the last of this sub-chapter. At the fourth amendment of the LDS. We're making a decision. 64 present, 50 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We are at Chapter 11 - Petting activities, the LDS Club is proposing an amendment. It's up to us. 67 present, 53 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the last amendment. This is an amendment by the SDS Group to Sub-chapter 12 - International Cooperation. We're voting. 69 present, 15 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] This was not accepted. This has been done with the vote on the amendments and we are moving on to a full vote on the motion for resolutions. The Government or the Legal and Legislative Service did not warn me that due to the amendments adopted, the articles of the resolution would be inconsistent. This way we can move on to a decision on the motion for a resolution in its entirety. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Resolution adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We have another resolution. Point 18 of the Resolution on the National Drug Programme 2004-2009. We also have a number of amendments tabled here, and we are moving on to making decisions about them. To Chapter 1.4.2.1.4. we have Prevention in the local environment and in civil society and the amendment of the NSI Group to this chapter. We're making a decision. We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. 64 present, 25 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] Not accepted. In the case of Chapter 1.4.2.3.1, we have the treatment of a drug user in the context of healthcare and two amendments. The first is the New Slovenia Group, the second Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We will first decide on the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. We're making a decision. 67 present, 14 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are under the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're making a decision. 66 present, 23 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In Chapter 1.4.2.3.2, two amendments are tabled by the NSI Group in the Social Problem Programme. We vote on the first amendment tabled by the NSI Group. 64 in attendance, 19 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. 59 in attendance, 19 in and 38 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. In Chapter 1.4.3, two amendments were tabled by the NSI Group for activities to reduce the supply of drugs. We decide on the first amendment. 61 in attendance, 17 in and 41 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment. 58 in attendance, 13 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. To Chapter 1.6.1 - At the country level, we have an amendment from the SDS Group. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Chapter 1.7.1 and Chapter 1.8.1. If the amendment is not adopted, the associated amendment becomes irrelevant. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 66 in attendance, 19 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In this respect, the two amendments have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a full vote on the motion for a resolution. I am not informed by qualified services that the text would be inconsistent. Please, colleague Jelinčič, explain the vote on the motion for a resolution in full. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The program we're about to confirm is bad, it sucks. Based on methadone treatment, where natural opium is essentially replaced by synthetic opium. By the way, we're gonna trade one drug with another. The difference is that methadone is not infected with various impurities, and therefore there are no side effects such as those of opium sold on the road. However, methadone is to a large extent simply a matter that is sold and served by some. Just so that no one will think, methadone also has an annual dose, it's called a death dose of 60 milligrams, which is about as much as heroin for one adult. In children, already 10 milligrams causes death. I think we should treat drug addicts in a different way. In hospitals in Ormož and Idrija they had a different program where they went to absolute abstinence and, of course, for the first seven days each junkie had the full support of the medical team and the success was excellent. However, this has been stopped because it is the easiest way to break up in a way that also allows a whole range of people to have a wonderful service, and the effects are actually very bad. We will not support poor Methadone in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u167	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u168	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. It is true that quite a bit of work has been put into this resolution, but in the end the good idea may have been tempted and there have been a different mix, as is probably the case with drugs. I'm not going to support this program myself because it reflects a paradigm that could be called safe drug use. This is not in line with my concept, and I also do not agree that it is the task of the State to provide needle addicts with free methadone and safe rooms for drug use in terms of prevention, without leading to any abstinence, not to mention it. And a third. Since the State guarantees the rights to what I have mentioned, it is unconditional, without requiring the users of drugs to take any step in terms of liability and obligation. These are the key reasons why this cannot be supported. And if we find out that the Dean of Social Work issues a manual on how to use drugs safely or in a similar address, we know where this reality is. With the policy pursued by the Netherlands and faced with major problems, of course, I do not agree. However, I can say that certain measures that are within I support under certain conditions. So I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u169	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The national programme has been imposed on one of the ministries, although in the Slovenian National Party, especially myself, I estimate that it should be the first signatory, not only in mind, the government and the Ministry of Health, which must defend it, but the Ministry of the Interior, in order to end the story with the biggest earners, traffickers who destroy the children who destroy the societies and thus society. It's a program like this on its own, in my opinion, so I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u171	Comrade Jelinčič now asked for another word in his own name. Now, Mr Plevelj has warned me that this has happened once before, but now I will give you my word and then this is no longer a rule, because this is completely unreasonable and by my way outside the spirit of the Rules of Procedure which has been adopted here. You had three minutes to explain the Group's position, and I will now give it, but I will say very clearly and loudly that there will be no further such practice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Well, we're going to talk about this practice in college, because legally I'm right, not you, Mr President. I too will say that the key to drug abuse is criminal policy. We do not have a penal policy, nor do we have a follow-up policy. The police don't care how many drugs are sold, and the police don't care if they get caught or not. But in court, if they're caught or released in any way, look at how many drug addicts or how many drug dealers are locked up, I don't know if there's one, or maybe one that has a little marijuana in its pocket, that yes, that's the one with kilograms of heroin, it's leaking. I think we need to do something here. It is precisely the Slovenian National Party that has communicated several times to the police because we have received notifications from citizens where drugs are being sold. They didn't fix anything, not once did the police go to the city's face to fix anything. This is how we in the Slovenian National Party even think that one of these gentlemen may even be involved in this trade. Which is horrifying and yet has already been happening in other countries, as well as in our country, because even on the way from the police station to the prosecution, hundreds of grams or more of these dangerous substances have been lost. That is why I think that this programme should be prepared together and, above all, those who sell to children, to early schoolchildren, to primary schoolchildren who sell these drugs to them and who point to them, should be subject to corporal punishment. My personal opinion is that such a man should be cut off by the hand with which he sold drugs to the child.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u173	My friend Kovtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you very much. When I listen to some in this debate, I think we're in the old age. I will support this resolution of the programme, because I am sure it is the profession that must decide how these addicts will be treated. And if we support this resolution of the programme, then the experts will be allowed to do what they know, and the only profession is who has to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u175	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Our Group of Members, as I have predicted, is going to undermine the programme. In fact, the programme itself does not aim at criminal policy or amending the penal code or regulating matters in other areas that need to be regulated. It is an attempt and is a step forward in understanding the problem itself and in the direction of how to approach this issue. As I said, the only problem is that the office that was now independent, inter-ministerial, coordinated the work of the various ministries placed in the Ministry of Health. This was not done by this programme, but was done by the State Administration Act, which was passed in December of the new year. However, we hope that this error will be rectified in one later term. However, there will remain what we will accept today, and on the basis of this, something else can be done in the field of drugs that will be of good quality in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u177	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u178	I will not vote in favour, because I think it is hypocritical that the two worst drugs in Slovenia, which collect their lives from day to day, do not speak to them, so this is a "omerta", and this seems hypocritical to me therefore I will not vote for the whole matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u179	My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u180	I'll vote against it because every medicine bothers me to treat such a disease. I know two people in Nova Gorica who are very successful in this area. Dr. Willi Shukaj, every year he heals 80 to 100 drug addicts and Dr. Bogdan Georges, a psychologist, also has his own workshops and is very, very successful. So if these two people -- I don't know if they would have any open conversations with them, and let's say one special knowledge would be introduced in medical schools, I don't know if it would help people, but not methadone, or I don't know what else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u181	My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I myself have decided to support the complementary motion for a resolution on the national drug programme. Although, frankly, I agree with all my previous interlocutors who will oppose this proposal that drugs in Slovenia are a problem. However, the resolution on the national programme can be complemented, and in other areas too, it should be possible to work in the Slovenian space where it will fall in May, as we will join Europe alone, to further liberalise the drug trade in the Slovenian space. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you recall, we all attended primary schools, because in most primary schools there are guards. Were drugs present in primary schools ten or fifteen years ago, as they are today? My personal opinion is that it is necessary in prevention and awareness both in primary schools and in preschool education to draw attention to this problem both on the one hand of parents, on the other hand our children, including grandparents, are paying attention to this. And I also agree with Mr Jelinčič, on the example of the West, it is also necessary to define the fight against drugs. It's not the junkie's fault someone brought him the drugs, it's the people who are burning. In America, DEJA fights in such a way that those who buy out attract as close to school as possible to kindergartens to be punished as possible. And in this area, in prevention and also in repression, something will have to be done in this Slovenian policy in order to prevent further [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] tours of security guards in primary schools, mainly to prevent the entry of drug distributors and those who sow this evil in our schools into our kindergartens. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much. As we said at the outset, we will, of course, support this programme in the parliamentary group because it provides a good basis for managing a whole range of positive policies for improvement in this area. But it will take a lot of coordination, inter-ministerial coordination within the government, to achieve its objectives. In this sense, we believe that there are two things in this national programme that will be entered into this document sooner or later. It is that the coordinating body or carrier of all these policies will be a re-institution under the umbrella of the government or directly subordinated to the government and that we will also miss part of the public funds to help high-level programmes, because, after all, they offer you, if nothing else, at least a lot of life saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u185	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. As far as I can recall, I think that this national programme also addresses the restriction on access to illicit and illicit drugs, if I am not mistaken. This point is also written down and I am very surprised - probably some of them have not read this national programme at all, so they will not be found in it and will now vote against it. In addition, they have such a strong position that the amendment could affect even more authorised drugs to frame this document. I also agree with this, and how many times have I said that we place such prices on drugs, because the country serves them, and you who are in the ruling option know the best way to benefit the country from this or how much money comes from this segment - to place such prices in order to make these drugs inaccessible. Don't do that. I am so surprised and disturbed by the definition of certain government members to drugs. And I would really like to get a little bit deeper into the material and try, because you have the power to transform this national programme into a content that matches your understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u187	My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support the resolution on the national drug programme for a simple reason, because I think it is high time that we in the Republic of Slovenia really start talking about the action plan of the so-called short-term, medium-term and long-term measures on this issue in the Republic of Slovenia. Statistics showing the so-called epidemic, which is written here, the use of drugs, are indeed worrying. Therefore, I see no reason why we should not immediately pursue the creation of a so-called information system in order to increase the share of drug users involved in the programmes and, above all, to provide a greater share of the funds to both government and non-governmental organisations dealing with this issue. If he holds the data - and of course I believe - that of 70 users, heroin addicts in 1991 in this area in this year's year, the number in Slovenia has increased, that he lives between 6,000 and 10,000 users or addicts or those of problematic heroin users, then the issue is worrying and needs to be addressed. Of course, I am pleased that more or less of us have all taken note that this repressive approach to users of illicit drugs has failed, and this has also been shown by experience from other countries. Decriminalisation of addicts is essentially important here, but in particular it is an educational function and an awareness of youth. On the other hand, here I agree with Mr Tsukati, but of course in other laws they define what is bothering us all, that we should punish much more traffickers and, of course, treat users as sick ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u189	I'm a colleague of niggers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I will certainly support this resolution, because it is a very good basis for further work, not only for the development of a strict action plan, but in fact primarily for the mutual cooperation of all sectors linked in this chain. I think that we must also be aware that each of us has contributed in some way and will contribute to the fullest possible application of this resolution by deciding how much money will be made available for various implementing sports activities, for individuals and for societies, etc. In short, these activities are largely designed to keep children and everyone else active in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u191	I think there's too much noise to interfere with the performance. My friend Potts wanted a word? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will definitely support this national programme. I think it's a strong starting point to move forward. However, I appeal to all state institutions, such as, say, repressive institutions, health personnel, school staff, like all the environments and general people of good will in all our environments, to take this black fox somewhere in our neighborhoods and also take responsibility to resocialize and welcome these people in our midst, but not to reject any help and close our eyes before, unfortunately, these anomalies of today. I think you can do that. I certainly point out, however, that wherever we have tried recently both in terms of treatment and the socialisation of these people, we have encountered great resistance to the environment. I hope that this will change somewhere, because these are our children, our people, and I think it is unacceptable that we send them to treatment and socialisation in foreign countries, and I hope that this opinion will soon turn to the benefit of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you. And my friend Yuri and Kacin. Please, my friend Yuri first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you. My friend Merlo beat me to it. Of course, that's what I support. At the same time, I wonder how much each of us, as an important co-formor of public opinion in the local space, of course, is consistent with what it says today. We find ourselves in our environment many times when people simply eliminate and marginalize patients or addicts in the methadone clinics, in the healing communities and so on. And we don't engage enough to create the right social climate for these people to resocialize them, as Merlo said. So let us also knock on our conscience and see for ourselves how powerful, strong, engaged, and at the same time, of course, the local environment needs to be prepared to receive these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u195	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will support the document, but what is most important about this document is the creation of a concept apparatus. For drugs, it is about the same as joining the European Union: everyone wants to go there, and most people have no idea what it is about and what they have to do. Therefore, it seems to me that today's adoption of this document is the first phase that would allow us to extend our knowledge of these concepts with which we have operated and supported them within our country and to begin to distribute all things in the same way. Whether we will do so in practice is another question. But just knowing what we're talking about is a huge step forward. The second fact that we cannot avoid is the fact that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, will be much more interesting to the suppliers of this drug from 1 May, because they will see us as a part of the development and will therefore increase the supply significantly. Since that is the case, we must prepare ourselves for prevention and curativeness and the concept apparatus is everything; it is the beginning and the end, and that is why I will also support this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u197	My friend Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support the resolution on the national drug programme for a simple reason, because, as already mentioned in some interpreters, drugs in Slovenia are a problem. And I am convinced that the comprehensive approach offered by this national programme will allow for active action in a wide range of areas, which this resolution offers comprehensively. Of course, I am sorry that, as part of the debate we had this afternoon, there was no more attention and we concluded the debate well over 45 minutes earlier when we had the opportunity to discuss the professional issues on the basis of the text contained in the resolution. I would also like to comment on the fact that I have presented in my explanation for the Group of Members that we are aware that alcohol and nicotine are missing from this resolution. But we need to know what is the legal basis for drafting a resolution on drugs, and this is the law that requires the National Assembly to adopt a national programme to prevent the reduction of the use of illicit drugs. In Slovenia we do not have a ban, i.e. absolute ban on alcohol and nicotine, and in this way we hope to give more attention to these two very important areas in a very short time. I think that the adoption of this resolution on the national programme is an important contribution to the fight against drugs and, of course, I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u199	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u200	Of course, I'll be very brief. I am very pleased that a thorough debate on this national programme takes place through explanations of the votes sent. Of course, when the debate was held, there were 5 to 6 people in the hall, and I think 45 minutes was available. Let us make sure that we discuss substantively at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u201	My friend Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. I will, of course, support this national programme. However, if this national programme states that the only way out or that there is only methadone in the national programme, then it would be rejected. As this is not, nor is methadone mentioned anywhere in this programme, there is a wide range of opportunities for civil society, the Doctor of Nova Gorica, to be included in this national programme, so I will support it. So it's open, it's open to anyone who wants to participate in this, either medically or civilly, and I don't know what kind of society you're going to be in. I hope that we are all adults here and that we know what this is about, and I do not know why such negative things against this national programme, which really involves all possible spheres of social life in this, just needs to be included. It is therefore necessary to engage in this. But I completely agree that methadone is not the way out, but there is no other. Except, plus what's in here, Mr. Jelinčič, you'll find as much as you want: from first to last. The only methadone you can't find in here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u203	If no one wants a word to explain the vote anymore, we will move on to a decision on the motion for a resolution in its entirety. We're voting. 67 present, 55 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Resolution adopted. Well, before we move on to the 18th point, I would just like to say once again that unless the business commission interprets otherwise, paragraph 72 of the text, all the chairmen interpret it so that the representative of the group cannot have two minutes in addition to three minutes, because that would mean five minutes and would be lost the meaning of Article 72 or the explanation of vote. We're going to the 18th-point agenda - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Signature, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does a government representative want to explain the law? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen! By adopting this law, Slovenia will take into its legal order those provisions of Directive 2000/31 of the European Parliament that are not yet contained in the Consumer Protection Act. In fact, it's a completely different matter. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that the new law specifically defines the responsibilities of individual providers of information society mediation services. In fact, when it comes to exclusive data transfer or storage, i.e. intermediate storage, or hosting. In fact, in this way, let us draw a more detailed line of responsibility between service providers and those who occupy their capacities. Well, this amended and updated Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature also eliminates certain systemic and technical deficiencies that were in the previous law and introduces new legal bases that allow the inclusion of digital certificates in personal identification documents and thus link to the central register of data. At the same time, the law lays down the obligations of service providers to inform the data collection authority of possible incidents and thus to contribute significantly to the security of electronic commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Does the Vice-President of the Economic Committee, colleague Kavčič, want a word in order to further explain the report of the Committee? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u206	Your Honor! At its 19th urgent meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments from a legislative and technical point of view. On this basis, the Committee considered the amendments and adopted the amendments to Articles 5, 6, 8, 23, 24 and 27. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. On the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, a proposal for a law incorporating all the amendments adopted was prepared and, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that the National Assembly support the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you very much. No one has applied for a word on behalf of the Group of Members. We are at second reading in the debate on individual amendments and articles. The LDS sent an amendment to Article 27. I'm opening a debate on him. There is no debate. We are moving on to a decision. We will decide on the proposed amendment of Article 27 of the LDS. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 36 in and 2 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're in the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, we adopted the amendment to Article 27. Would qualified applicants like to submit an amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] I have no information that the text of the articles would be inconsistent. Then we can move on to a decision on the law. We decide the whole law. We're voting. 51 present, 42 for and none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, the point is closed. We're at 20. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. When discussing the proposal for an act on the succession of agreements, the former Yugoslav Republic of Bulgaria, which shall remain in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Bulgaria. Do qualified discussers want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on the draft act. Please. 51 present 43 for and no one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the act has been adopted, the point is closed. At 21. We have a defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on reducing acidification, eutrophication and the ground-level zone of the 1979 Convention on the Disengagement of Air to Large Distances across Borders. Do qualified discussers want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. There's no debate. We are moving on to the third reading, i.e. to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of vote by colleague Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Actually, it's just one thing, you have to fix one mistake because it says "acidification." The "acidification" should be written, because it's about acids, it's about the use of acids, and we don't have acid, it's about acid. That's why, it's a chemical term, and I think we should also use precise terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Please take this editorial comment into account and we will also have it before our eyes when deciding on the proposal for a law on the ratification of this Protocol. We're voting. There are 53, 46 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[against 1.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 22. We have today's agenda on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Paris Protocol and the amendment of the Convention on Moistures, which is an international reference to the characteristics of wetlands as habitats of wetlands. Do qualified discussers want a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to a third-reading decision. We vote on the bill. There's 57, 54 for us, and no one's against us. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. At 23. We have a defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Heritage. Qualified debaters want a word. We're on the proposal for a law on ratification. Anybody want a word? Excuse me? Position of the parliamentary group, colleague of Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will be happy to support this proposal for a law on ratification. It's about time, really time to ratify it. Slovenia lost a lot of works of art which were alienated and located abroad. One of the most beautiful collections of Slovenian coastal from Primorska from Piran from the surrounding area is still in Italy, although this ratification will not help to return these works, because the Minister of Culture is not enough to do so, and it seems that our Slovenian government is not enough to do so, but it is the first step. Perhaps the next government will have more sense of Slovenian cultural heritage and goods and will demand a return. Unfortunately, we have a whole range of government institutions that should have done so, we could have expected a request from the Ministry of Justice in the end, but we haven't seen it, and we probably won't. But the first step is and I think it makes sense and it is right to support this issue, because if no one wants to fix it from at least the governing structure, let us at least ensure that the moving Slovenian cultural heritage no longer runs across the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u211	Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We do not have a notice of non-conformity of text. Can we make a decision? Please. There are 59 of us present, so many for, no one against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This concludes the point and the law is adopted. At 24. We have today's agenda on a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stockholm Convention on State-of-the-art operatives. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? Nobody. Then we will vote on the bill. Please. We vote on the bill. 61 present, 58 for and none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law on ratification has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 25. We have today's agenda on a proposal for a bill on the ratification of agreements establishing a general fisheries commission in mid-earth. Do qualified discussers want a word? No, no, no. We're voting on the law. Please. We're voting on the law. 56 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law on ratification has been adopted. We're at 26. Agenda items on defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on maritime transport . Do qualified discussers want a word? We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 62 present, 58 for and no one against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The bill was adopted. This concludes this point. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the amendments to the report on economic companies, companies or institutions, to which the first paragraph of paragraph 20 applies. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. There are no announced debaters. Can we move on to decisions on the proposal for a decision? This reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Law on Incompatibilities, are subject to the prohibition of the operation of a State, public undertakings and public institutions by virtue of a gainful activity. The amendment to the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 63 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item. We're at 28. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY’S LINE — WITH THE CERTIFICATE OF THE WORKING TEXTS REFERRED TO IN THE LEGISLATION. I'll take my turn. Since there are many of these, I also ask for your attention. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the law on justice is confirmed." We're voting. 64 present, 55 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the National Assembly has confirmed the purified text. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Public Procurement Act." We're voting. 63 present, 55 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the National Assembly has confirmed the officially purified text. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Health Inspection Act." We're voting. 59 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and the text officially clarified. We are in the next decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the pharmacy law. We're voting. 61 present, 57 for and none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially refined text has been confirmed. We will now confirm the officially consolidated text of the Health Act. We're voting. 61 present, 57 for and none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially refined text has been confirmed. We will now decide on the decision to confirm the officially refined text of the medical service law. We're voting. 57 present, 52 for and no one against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially refined text has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Social Protection Act. We're voting. 61 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This officially purified text is confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the maritime code. We're voting. We have also made this decision. This was the last one on this agenda item. 60 present, 57 for and no one against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] At agenda item 29, we have a mandate-holder. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider two proposals from the Judicial Council for the election of candidates for judicial office, a proposal from the Minister of Justice for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and a final proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member of the State Audit Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the District Court and the District Judge to the District Court in Ljubljana and Slovenia Bistrica. The Secretary of the Council of Justice is here. He wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by a mandate-based electoral commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the groups of Members, Members and Members of Parliament have not applied for the debate. That's how we get to the decision. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, on the election to a judicial function, Mr Andre Gerlović, to the district judge's seat in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 59 present, 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Darje Pukl, the District Court in the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica. We're voting. 55 present, 49 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] For my third appointment, Mr Plevelje warned me that the withdrawal was from the judiciary. We are now deciding on the proposal of the Minister of Justice to appoint the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. There's a mag with us. He's a bizic, and he wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u212	Mr President, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal to elect Mr Franz Testen as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a candidate who excels after extensive professional knowledge and after extensive work experience. Let me only remind you of his successful presidency of the Constitutional Court and his role as a Constitutional Judge. I would like to stress in particular that the candidate has submitted a programme that identifies all key open issues and problems of the Slovenian judiciary, which identifies these issues actively, ensuring that problems are addressed in a proactive manner, and I am sure in an appropriate manner. All these key reasons are also based on broad support from the Judicial Council to the proposed candidate, as well as support for the general meeting of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this is a good candidate who will be able to successfully lead the Supreme Court and face all the tasks associated with this function. That's why I recommend a candidate for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u213	Does the President of the Election Commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then, first of all, my colleague, Tsukati, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Surely there are a number of issues that need to be resolved in the Supreme Court and in our Court of Justice in general. That's probably what you all agree with. Taking into account the candidate's work programme, we somehow agree with some or most of his initiatives, which he promises here. First, it promises greater concern for uniform case law. We think it's an extremely hot spot. If he succeeds to some extent in achieving the principle solutions to the most controversial issues, bringing them into court practice and thus simplifying our judicial system so that there will be no such local differences as is now coming, we will be very happy. Next. It predicts the revival of the Strategic Council, which was established one year ago by the President of the Supreme Court, and somehow the whole thing fell asleep. This strategic world is supposed to shape our judiciary for the next five years, and we believe that this is a step that inspires hope if, of course, it persists in this promise. For once, we have no reason to doubt that. Certainly, however, we are most pleased with his claims that the responsibility and transparency of our judiciary must be strengthened. While he believes that it is not necessary to amend the Constitution, that no new legal mechanisms are necessary and that the law on courts and the law on judicial service are already sufficient, it is only necessary to implement them, he says. This claim, of course, is very binding for the candidate, "but they must be implemented". And, of course, at the end of the mandate, we will ask whether the implementation of these laws has taken place. There are also a number of other things, particularly the issue of standardising criteria for the expected scope of work, which, as a mechanism, is also allowed in the judiciary. Why not if we have other professions that are extremely responsible. Let me mention the medical profession where the patient is different from the patient, but the matter is standardised, but full responsible work with the patient. Why wouldn't a judge have some kind of standard, some kind of measure his effectiveness? Patients are easy and difficult, somewhere in thousands and tens of thousands, this ratio is equal. That's the case with the judge. Cases are easy and difficult. At a quota of ten thousand, it will definitely be equal. And we are pleased that the candidate is thinking in this direction, though, unfortunately, too determined. At the end of the day, I would say, however, that the candidate in this programme inspires confidence and our Group of Members will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u215	I have no other applications for discussion, and this is how I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Franc Testen as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. We're voting. 62 present, all in favor, none against. [[Everyone voted for it.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are at the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. No one has spoken, so we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr France Kodele as a member of the State Audit Commission for a period of five years. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 46 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item. We are following the third item on the agenda - the proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. On Tuesday, 24 February this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. The legislature or the government did not warn me that the law would have been inconsistent because of the amendments adopted. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. Peace in the hall, please. There's 59, 58 for us, and no one's against us. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. We are deciding on this bill in the context of a reduced procedure. We're at third reading. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] No amendments were tabled. I'm asking the government if he wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u216	The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber Act, because of the amendments adopted in the second reading, is not in conformity with Article 11, because a lump sum of SIT 2,000 was introduced in the first indent of Article 9(1), which is inconsistent with the provision in Article 11, where 3000 SIT has been written. It is therefore necessary to correct the discrepancy between the amounts. It's also incompatible due to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u217	The lady speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u218	due to the amendments introduced by the Law in paragraphs 8 and 9 20% of the increase or reduction in the level of the assembly contribution and because this increase or reduction relates only to the participation of a and b, but not to c, it is necessary, given that all the members of the Chamber are equal and equally obliged to pay for the assembly contribution, to be aligned with the same possibility of reducing or increasing the participation rate by 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The government has therefore warned us that the amendments adopted have led to a lack of coherence, thus moving on to the consideration of the two harmonisation amendments, which you have before you, of 26.2 to 10 and 11 Articles. Anybody want a word? Can we move on to a decision? We will first decide on the first harmonisation amendment to Article 10. We're voting. We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 10. There's 62, 57 for us, and no one's against us. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will now decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 11. We're making a decision. Both harmonisation amendments have been adopted. The majority voted in favour, 55 out of 60 present and none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] Now we're going to make a full decision on the law. We're voting. 63 present, 55 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Thank you very much, Madam Undersecretary of State, for your intervention. We are at the 16th item of the agenda, and if I am not mistaken, this is the last point we have to decide on today. This is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Government's amendment to the SDS's amendment to Chapter 4, point 1.1, and the amendment of the SMS Group to the same chapter, point 3.2, was adopted, the government warned the assembly that the resolution was not harmonised. Today, by letter, the government submitted seven harmonisation amendments that you received on the bench. Does the Minister want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr President! You have already stated the reasons for the harmonisation amendments. In doing so, I must point out that, for the amendment of the SMS Group last night, we propose that the basic programme, as the amendment was adopted, should be added to the supplementary programme, given that there is neither price nor any other data for this section, and that this also does not undermine the basic concept of what is essentially the basic programme, which was discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly yesterday. In this way, we keep the basic programme exactly the way it was. All the other amendments are, of course, the result of the amendments adopted. However, I must also point out that these amendments are also in line with the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u221	You probably have before you a letter from the government dated 27.2. where these harmonisation amendments are also listed. We'll do it in a row. The first amendment is submitted to Chapter 4, point 1.1. May I have your attention in the vote? We go to the first amendment to Chapter 4, point 1.1. We're voting. 61 present, 56 for and 4 against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's go to the other amendment. I will read, as stated in the annex of the Government or in the letter of the Government: "The second amendment concerns the basic programme of phase B and proposes to delete the fourth indent in section B, Styria Krak." We're voting. Please. Procedurally, I'm sorry, I'm terminating the vote. The chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Mr President, these amendments are linked. I propose that we vote on the harmonisation amendment together. If one of them is not voted on, the national programme will again be uncoordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u223	This is already possible, but only then should the Government, in accordance with its rules of procedure, propose one harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u224	I understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u225	I know, but we have to go through this procedure because seven of them were filed. If the government thought they were connected, then I'd give one. I'm sorry. Excuse me? Is there another comment? Please, Comrade Anderlich. We are at the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 54 in and 4 in. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] This one's been adopted, too. We decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 54 in and 4 in. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] This harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. We're at the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 55 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We are at the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the last, sixth amendment. We're voting. 55 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. The last harmonisation amendment is before us, this is an amendment under order number seven. We're voting. 61 present, 56 for and 4 against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] This amendment has also been adopted and the conditions are met to decide on the motion for a resolution in its entirety. We're voting. 63 present, 58 for and 2 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. This item is concluded and thus this meeting of the National Assembly. I thank all of you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant weekend, and I will see you again next week. Goodbye.
