ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Nice and successful afternoon. We'll start the 34th session of the National Assembly. I called on her on the basis of Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Before we move on to the decision on the agenda, let me inform you which colleagues and colleagues, due to other obligations of today, cannot attend this meeting on the first day. These are colleagues of Battelli, Gračner, Horvat, Jakič, Kopušar, Malovre, Marshič and colleague Trofenik for the start of the session. At this meeting I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Róp, to the 1st item of the agenda, also to the 2nd item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, and to the 29th item of the agenda of the representative of the Council of Justice. I am also informing you that I have invited the current and former highest representatives of the country and the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Slovenia to the point, which will be held at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning, this is the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. We are now moving on to the agenda of the 34th meeting of the Assembly. As I have already mentioned, this is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and you received it on 17 February this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a single point within the time limit for proposals to withdraw, so we will move on to a decision on the proposals for extending the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided to propose that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature. Do qualified speakers want a word? Otherwise, we will first move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. May I ask my colleagues and colleagues to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will move on to the first decision in this session. I ask for your kindness and attention. Do all voting devices work and can be decided? I don't see it would be any different. Thus, we will now move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature. We're voting. We vote to extend the agenda to this point. 51 colleagues and colleagues were present, 40 were in favour and 3 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will review the law on Friday 27 February this year. This allows us to move on to a decision on the agenda as a whole. In line with the proposal we have just adopted, I am putting the proposed agenda to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. 46 were in and 1 was in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the agenda for this meeting, the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, has been adopted. Before we turn to questions from Members and Members of Parliament at 3 p.m., let me remind you that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will begin with a proposal for a law on the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. In accordance with Article 3a of the Slovenian Constitution, 60 or more Members and Members must vote in favour of such a decision. We will vote immediately after the vote is explained, it is said in the morning work or around noon, tomorrow, that is to say in the middle of the working day. With the next item on the agenda, which concerns the proposal for a law on the relationship between the government and the national assembly in the decision-making process on European matters, we will decide ten minutes after the last meeting. For this decision too, there must be a two-thirds majority, in which case the two-thirds majority of colleagues present. With this remark, I conclude by 3 p.m. the work of the National Assembly. We will move on to the first item of the agenda at 3 p.m., which is the question of Members and Members. The first questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Master Rob. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u2	Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, too, Mag. Anton Rope, who will answer the first questions from our opposition colleagues. With regard to 1. I have dealt with this item of the agenda in accordance with Rules 244 and 245 of the Rules of Procedure. We'll do it in a row. Before I give the first of our colleagues a word on the question to the Prime Minister, let me inform you that I have been informed by the Government of the five ministers who will be absent due to other obligations. This will be Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the OSCE Troika, Minister of Defence Dr Grizold, who has an official visit to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Macedonia, Dr Janez Potočnik, Minister without a Director is also in Brussels. Franci But, who participates in the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries, and the Minister of Transport Presečnik has become ill and we wish him to recover as soon as possible. We are going to ask questions that are answered in the introduction by the Prime Minister of Mags. Anton Rop. The first question will be asked by my colleague Štemberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister! In recent times, we have been able to read in the media that some directors of public institutions receive salaries that far exceed yours, as well as the salaries of other top representatives of the state. A simple calculation thus shows that the best paid directors of public institutions, who also receive 2.6 million gross in one month, earn about 23 minimum wages. The minimum wage since December, according to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is 111 thousand 484 tolars. Almost 50 guaranteed wages. The guaranteed remuneration according to the data of the Ministry of State since December amounts to 52 000 699 dollars gross. In the first comparison, the record between directors of public institutions earned as much in one month as a worker with a minimum wage in two years. While a worker who receives a guaranteed salary has to work well for this money for four years. Dear Prime Minister, this is a shameful truth, which is unacceptable, especially because such high wages are also generated by contributions from all those who earn a month's wages of 100,000. And most worryingly, the government obviously has no review and no supervision of the salaries paid to the directors. Most of the time, it turned out that the government didn't even know what kind of pay individual directors paid. However, not only do they receive high wages in public companies whose founder is a country, but not often do the municipalities not know what salaries they receive from the directors’ offices that are owned by them. It is said that samples of luxury wages are also mirrored locally. As you are aware, the government has adopted a decision a few years ago that limits the salaries of directors of public institutions to 90% of the salary of the minister. As we see now, the situation in this area is nevertheless catastrophic. This decision was bypassed by an increase in salaries with various supplements and incentives, which together have exceeded the entire basic salary. The conclusion of individual contracts with the directors of the institutions has clearly become a rule, just as they have become a rule of large allowances for work performance. In most cases, directors received an allowance no matter how successful they were. A while ago, we passed a law on a system of public sector wages, which is not to be used until the middle of this year, I think it is too late. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to ask: In our country, who controls salaries in public institutions or, rather, who should do so? I also want to know: What measures will be taken in the case of overpaid salaries found? And above all, when will the government finally restrict wages to an increasing group of highly overpaid individuals and act against those who have designed and received them without shame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. Therefore, as regards public sector wages, it is necessary to say that these are public and therefore, even in these cases, when individual wage increases have occurred, they have been public and therefore are also subject to consideration and are also subject to consideration. However, let me say that through the existing system, we divide the salaries of leaders in the public sector into three parts. First of all, they work in public institutions that do not have an individual contract. Then we have the salaries of directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds and the salaries of directors of companies in majority ownership. According to individual contracts, 3,021 civil servants were employed in 2003 and their gross salaries, averaged 690,000 tolars. In these specific cases, which you are talking about, there has been an overpayment and measures or calculations have already been carried out. Just in this particular case, when it came to this tremendous increase in wages, according to the information given to me today by the Minister of Health, this salary or these funds have already been paid back, and so will it in all other cases. And in all other cases, in which wages will be found to be above the level established by the law and in public institutions, they will be set in ranges, with factors and then with a performance allowance, of course, these salaries will be reduced, they will have to be returned, and if necessary, the relevant councils of these institutions will also be dissolved. So, on the one hand, the saints of the institutions are the ones responsible for control, and on the other hand, the ministers are the ones responsible for the control of the worlds. And we are negotiating and we are going to publish all the salaries, including the current on the Internet, all the employees, all the leaders in the public sector. So that we will be able to monitor these salaries from the monthly to the entire Slovenian public. Let me say that we have managed to limit wage growth in the public sector over the past two years. In 2002, the average wage in the public sector was 1.1% per employee and 2.3 per cent for the private sector in 2003 was only 0.7%. The differences in wages between those with the lowest and the highest wages have also decreased during this period. In particular, I can say that the Gini coefficient, which measures this wage difference in 2002 to 0.26, for example in 2000 is 0.27. Let me also say, of course, and you know this very well, that in the middle of this year, a new law on public sector wages will enter into force, which will further limit this relationship from 1 to 10. Let me add that we have concluded an agreement with trade unions in the public sector, which appears to be very successful and which will be combined in 2004, represents a real de-indexation of public sector wages and will represent a nominal increase of only 3.13%. The agreement was also made for 2005 and amounts to 3.04% of public sector wage growth. This means that, as a whole, wage policy in the public sector has been successful, it is good. That's what the data shows. However, if there has been an excess on a case-by-case basis, we will, of course, sanction it accordingly. As I said, in this way, wages will come back, in a way that will sanction those in the worlds who have allowed such a rise in wages and such excesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u6	Would you like to complete the question? Please. [[...]] [[Peace in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u7	Last June, the government adopted a decision on the preparation of a full analysis of salaries and other benefits in the public and private sectors. I want to know: When will we see this analysis also by members of the National Assembly? What will be the next steps to ensure that any similar anomalies, as they now appear, do not show up in a similar analysis, say, two, three years from now? For even now we had certain rules, and as we see, some did not keep them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u8	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u9	So I think you can see this analysis at any time; either at the committee or at the plenary session. This analysis will show what I said that we led a relatively successful pay policy in Slovenia, macroeconomically, both in the private sector and in the public sector. I believe some people don't like to hear it, but that's how they show the data, so they show the numbers, so this analysis shows. And this analysis also shows that we have managed to reduce the differences between the highest and lowest wages and is therefore favourable and we will be happy to show it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u10	The next question will be raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I'm asking: When will you break up with the strange activities of Minister Kebra and President Miklavčič of the ZZS? Here I have a lot of documentation on strange routes, I could even say criminal routes and abuses mainly of legislation and positions. If I am going in the order of business: real estate issue, exchange contract concluded between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Ministry of Health with a clinical centre, 22.11.2002. Because it's double criteria. Then the equipment of the eye clinic, where it goes, where the fact that the eye clinic has laid down the most serious infringements of the law on public procurement. Of course, the decision on the order is given to Moliier, who appears to be Mr Kebra's exposition, because everyone already knows whether Mollier or nobody. Patients may wait Come in. This is a question of the Oncology Institute. The audit of public procurement for hospital beds has been carried out since August 2002 and it has already been four times for the audit of Sanolabor, and the decision is made by Mollier and the oncology audit is still ongoing and oncology is still without beds. Next, Izola General Hospital. It was a public order for one of the operating tables. Mollier dropped out with an inadequate offer, and then the public order was suddenly terminated because the Ministry of Health of the General Hospital Izola banned the purchase of the operating table from Sanolabor and so on. Then we have two separate public invitations from the Ministry of Health: completion of the operation block of the general hospital Novo Mesto and medical equipment of the maternity ward of the general hospital Murska Sobota. Both tenders are under review for tender documents, as the Minister has apparently prejudged one tenderer again, Mollier. Next, a public invitation to build a new pediatric clinic. The award of the contract shall be subject to the revision of the tendering documents. Then is the contract for the supply of medical, technical devices with the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Again, the Health Insurance Act and the Under-Law have been violated. Next, a public order for the supply of medical devices, hernia belts and prosthetic prosthetics. Once again, the ZZZS institution placed itself in the role of contracting authority and gave the tenderers misleading information to supply the retail network on the basis of its selection. Next, illegal business of ZZZS in the purchase of technical equipment for rent. This is a material far beyond low-value tendering, but it is still carried out by the institution following the low-value procurement process.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u13	I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u14	First, Mr President of the Government has the floor and then you will be able to complete the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you for asking. Therefore, in these specific cases, the Minister of Health, who knows and is likely to have made decisions in specific cases, is likely to continue to speak. I myself estimate that some examples from the past show that some of the public procurements or health contracts have been carried out irrationally and that some suppliers may have become accustomed to doing so quite automatically and domestically. And lately, even after what happened at the Clinical Center, when certain purchases were sanctioned, some conditions happen that generally the same or similar suppliers who have supplied equipment in the past, and when they fall under the criteria of individual tenders, they regularly complain. However, in all these cases, we have a State Audit Commission dealing with these cases and which can in any case also issue a report. And all of these cases that you've talked about are also possible. Even in some cases, which you have specifically mentioned, I know that in Trnov hospital, for example, the financial inspection, the budgetary inspection has looked at this case in particular, and in all other cases, I think that this is open and that it is possible. However, I believe that there is great dissatisfaction with individual suppliers and they want, of course, to exert pressure in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u16	Complementary question, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I asked you, Mr. Prime Minister: When will you stop Mr. Kebra and Mr. Miklavčič? I don't want to hear the minister's populist responses later. The fact is that the audit committees have brought things back to square one and nothing has happened. But let's move on. Then it is an obstacle to accessing data of a public nature. I'll speak very briefly for a while. Next, the award of an order on the basis of the conclusion of an invitation to tender for the supply of certain persons in the homes of older persons and special institutions, the award of an order to Tosami d.d., when the article was replaced by a choice from a public contract, which is a violation of the law and yet this has happened. Then we have a question of Medic d.o.o. led by Dr. Meta Zorc, who establishes the so-called third cardiovascular center in Slovenia. Come in. Financing of the Worlds by the Ministry of Health. Only the payment of advice on reform and the White Paper to Hic in Australia, Health International - consulting, when Mr. Don Hindel for 2002 received 1. 130 000 €50 without public procurement. Then let's move on. The financing of the World Health Ministry, when it paid for the company's computer support to Centrex Group in America, managed by Dr Dusan Ečimovac, is an associate of Maranti, and Mr Bozo Dimnik is a consultant, paying EUR 133 000 298 per year. And then forward. Associated persons in the audit when the contracting authority of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia is at Rudis, for example, the Ministry responsible for investments in the Ministry is Mr. Bojan Bračko, who is the spouse of Mrs. Nevenka Sedej's employee in Rudis [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's what you say, the one who gives, controls himself and of course gives the signature below that everything is fine. [[...]] I think, Mr Prime Minister, it is high time that you consider removing Mr Kebra from the position of Minister of Health, or else I think he is worthy of interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u18	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u19	So, to all these statements that you've read and presented here, of course, I can't specifically answer and I don't think it would make any sense. I propose that you give this question in writing and I believe that the Ministry of Health will answer each of these questions and then we will look together at the arguments and the reasons for or against each case. But I believe the Minister has an appropriate answer to all these allegations that you've made here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u20	Your third question will be asked by colleague Janez Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u21	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Here I have a letter with a number of signatures written to you by fraudulent Sicura savers after you answered my question in this regard at the last January session. It says that they are bitter and disappointed with your answers in the National Assembly. You said that you were committed to helping people properly when they were cheated and asked you when you were committed to solving and paying off the stolen Sicura savers and many other cases. The signatories say the government has done nothing at this time. To refresh my memory, in January 1993, Vladimir Slejko, who was then an LDS official in Postojna, Andrej Sever and Sašo Čačovič, founded a company called Optimism Holding. In April 1993, a well-known affair of optimism broke out, which included the current CEO of LDS Bogdan Biščak. Criminal charges have been filed for a number of different offences. At that time, the Minister of Finance of Gaspari made a public statement that he would resign if the state's assets were compensated for a single tolar in this case. She was injured for high sums, Gaspari did not give up, and none of those involved did. Most of the procedures have deteriorated and are outdated. Optimism was divided into three sub-systems: exchange offices, food and credit institutions such as Sicura, and stock exchanges such as BHP d.o.o. More or less the same people quietly continued their business dealings. Later, Boštjan Shoba, known from the bribery story of former Secretary of State Boris Šuštar, joined them. They started new businesses, started them into bankruptcy and reopened new ones. They were followed by fraudulent creditors and business partners, and the power did not go away at that time, even more. On 21 December 1994, BHP d.o.o. received a permit from the Securities Market Agency to conduct securities transactions. Although the Agency’s expert council has found that the application is incomplete, it has issued a permit. The Senate, which decided to issue the permit, had four members, including Mr Anton Rop. So it will only be true that you said in January if you were active in this matter, but I think not on the side of the fraudulent savers, but those who cheat at least indirectly by issuing such decisions have made it possible. I want to know: But has the government done anything during this time of the last month to repair the damage to Sicura, Zdenex, and all the other affairs you discussed in January?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u22	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u23	As for the case of Sicura and this letter you're talking about, it's true, I've received it. And above all, in this letter, they are outraged by the response that I gave and sent from the National Assembly, on behalf of the National Assembly, to these saviors. They are appalled at this response given by the National Assembly and I think that the Head of the Legal Service and the National Assembly in this reply, or the Head of the Legal Service, is responsible for this issue and the Bank of Slovenia is responsible for this issue. So it's correspondence between the Sicura savers and the National Assembly. Obviously, this is what someone wanted to credit to me, this response from the National Assembly to these concrete savers, and when they linked this letter of the Legal Service of the National Assembly with my reply, which, of course, went on to completely some of the other problems that we have discussed the last time, they expressed their resentment, so that we or I will answer these savers and also explain to them who, when and how he was responsible for the case of Sicura and who, in individual cases, acted improperly and contrary to their responsibilities. There, of course, I will also answer what they can do in the context of the situation. In this case, however, it is an institution which was under the control of the Bank of Slovenia, which, following the amendment of the Banking Act, has been removed from the supervision of the bank, and the guarantee of the central bank has been reduced accordingly. And, of course, from this title also problems related to concrete savers. In any case, we will also indicate in the reply in which cases and how it is possible to find solutions that, at least part of the damage to fraudulent savers, would undoubtedly recover fraudulent savers, in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u24	Please, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u25	This is not only about the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. Many government authorities, including among the first anti-corruption offices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, were informed about the fraud of Sicura savers and other institutions of the same owners, but of course he was dealing with the foreign minister of the same government at the time. I doubt, however, that because of employment this office has not done its job, because in the office you also have Mr Drag Kos in one of the highest positions, who has recently been convicted in the district court for the second time for unlawful wiretapping to the journalist Tomaž Ranc of Slovenia. The Court found that it was only stated that the wiretap was illegal, but it was also totally unjustifiable. It has been two months since the second judgment, but a high official of the state who has committed one of the most serious abuses of the situation that could be committed in the rule of law still carries out his duties. Think of it, on behalf of the government, someone who has illegally eavesdropped on corruption, and perhaps even represents Slovenia at an international anti-corruption institution. It's like sending a arsonist into the world. At the same time, of course, there is a lot going on in the Slovenian media as an expert interpreter for corruption by the government. By the way, where's the state solidarity? But, second question, I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister: Do you support your official’s actions, or will you replace him, or have he even illegally eavesdropped on the government’s orders?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u26	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u27	One more time about Sicura. With regard to the competence of individual institutions, you will find an annex, but if we provide you with the response of the National Assembly and the National Assembly explicitly there talks about the competence of individual institutions and their tasks, and in this case it was, and still is, the Bank of Slovenia and this also the National Assembly in its official reply, it states to the savers and, of course, the savers refer to this letter and are, in this regard, resentful of me, although I did not send this letter myself. As far as this case is concerned, the Rant case and Kos case, of course, I was not responsible for any of these areas, as far as this was concerned, and if this was the case, and I can only say that as far as the anti-corruption office is concerned, this, as you know, is changing into a commission, the deadlines are already running and calls for all the leaders of this committee, and you will decide who will be the head or chairman of this commission, here in the National Assembly, you Members of the National Assembly, and this will be an independent institution from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the questions that Members and Members are asking the Prime Minister. Now we are moving on to that part of this agenda item, where ministers and ministers answer our questions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will now first hear the answers to the questions already raised and have not been answered due to the absence of ministers or ministers. In the absence of Mr President, the Minister of Transport will now answer the unanswered question from the 33rd meeting of the Assembly by Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Keber. It's a question of a colleague, Majda Zupan, about a register of bone marrow donors. You want to repeat this question one more time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, the House of Respect! Our recognized flutist Irena Grafenauer, who, after receiving the highest national award for help, has made a great and commendable gesture for other patients as well. As commendable as she had the courage, the saddest thing is that our register of bone marrow donors for non-coordinate transplants is very modest. Slovenians and Slovenians responded in a mass way, thus demonstrating humanity and solidarity. The government is expected to devote up to 10 million tolars to carry out public blood tests. It is significant that, before the initiative, there was little knowledge and no talk in the general public, nor were the official institutions organizationally prepared for such a response, so the first days among donors were quite a few criticisms and indignations. Even the prices for blood tests were interpreted differently. First of all, EUR 1000, then EUR 600, last of all 300, although abroad, it costs only EUR 50. It is commendable, however, that in health care, although it is late for a number of patients, I hope it is not too late. Still, I wonder why it's only now. The program of non-corrosive bone marrow transplants has only been carried out with us since 2002 and the tissue tipping center is the only laboratory with us that conducts such investigations. But we know that in the world, they have been treating for more than 30 years and that specialized centers carry out thousands of bone marrow transplants each year. Dear Mr. Minister for Health: Why aren't these things arranged systemically with us? Is it possible to count on the systemic inflow of a health insurance undertaking and, if not, will you, Mr Minister, propose amendments to the regulations, perhaps even legislation governing this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u30	Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much, honourable Member for this question. Dear Members and Members! Transplantation is a very sensitive area and depends on a number of factors: development, appropriate knowledge, equipment, laboratory bases, good contact with the world, etc. Our country has, we could say, a box of all the systemic grounds for good activity in this area, the law and also a number of sub-legislative acts that regulate it. It's not all that's left. Today, we can claim that, with the exception of lung transplantation, which has already begun to develop, we are judging longer than we would have thought, higher anchors judge by our position, social product or anything else. For example, in kidney transplantation we are among the leaders in Europe, and if I go to your question, even in bone marrow transplantation we are relatively high, we are not working for a short time. Unfortunately, this time I don't have any data from which year away, but I do know that we make them every year around 30 to 40. True, the number of donors in all countries is a major problem. Encouraged by giving is a problem that we have at last met with us. Finally, the most public and reverential in the attempt to collect sex cells for the needs of infertile couples. Let me take this opportunity to call the public again, to have the needs of non-fulfilled sex cells, and to keep married couples waiting. In the area of bone marrow, it's actually an exception. No country, in particular not so small, can gather enough donors on its own, but much helps if we are involved, and we are included in this global fund, the world donor registry, which includes about nine million potential donors and from which we draw on the needs of our donors. I would be very specific, the need for development and the encouragement that Slovenia also has more donors, in fact, there is a need for us to be more solidarity with this global donor fund so that we do not just get it from us, but that we include it by our capabilities, rather than to solve the problems of our patients. It is almost certain that our patients, even in the past, will receive a donor from abroad in the vast majority of cases. But let me tell you an example, our Slovenian also donated bone marrow to a patient from the United States. It is very commendable to encourage the public to use the word "disaster of known persons", not only in our case, but also on a global scale, it turns out to be a public event and then an offer for a donation is accelerated. Even in our case this happened and in one month we gained 50% of the additional donors, and this number I hope will continue to grow. So let me just say, the problem of donating parts of the body for the time of life or cells for the time of life is great, we have a lot to do in this area. Our integration into the world network imposes obligations on us to this network. And in it, we have a large reservoir for our patients. And I can argue that a Slovenian patient with a disease like the disease of a famous artist will usually get and also get bone marrow from the world pool. The payment for this activity is, in fact, relatively vaguely defined at that time and to be interpreted as being an activity that is only part of the budget and that is not an integral part of the financing by the Health Insurance Office, a boycott because the donors are a healthy person. This would be similar to saying that medicines, because they are produced by healthy manufacturers, are not actually in line with this. That is why I think that the right answer to the question will be, and we will, in accordance with the needs of citizens and bone marrow providers, be reliably financed without having to make significant changes to the existing rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u32	Completing the question, please, colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. But I would like to ask you: Can you ensure that the whole process from blood typing to possible bone marrow withdrawal is carried out quickly and efficiently or at what stage is this procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u34	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u35	Of course, with limited knowledge in this area, let me say that the donor is always indicative. This framework typification is, of course, much cheaper and there was also a misunderstanding as to the price of typification. Of course, when we include this limited typification in a wider network of candidates, which would be appropriate for a particular patient, then it should be upgraded with additional typifications and in this area I can ensure that we have contacts with the relevant international validated laboratories, which at this time will make it more reliable and cheaper to do this additional typification, so that we can quickly and definitively determine the appropriateness of a given donor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Maria Pozsonec, because we cannot get an answer to the question raised at the previous meeting by colleague Sok today. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, would like to draw attention to the fact: Instructions for use of medicinal products in cartons containing medicinal products are not included in the Hungarian language. I think it is unnecessary to explain how important the instructions for the use of medicinal products and the other information on the leaflet accompanying the medicine are. The instructions are not just for decoration, because they are important for patient safety. In the former Yugoslavia, these instructions were also written in Hungarian, in which case it is not only a formal need for bilingualism, but an urgent need for the safety of users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u38	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u39	Madam Member, I am also grateful for this question. It would be superfluous to start with formal reasons for not having a basis for this, and that there is no basis or obligation in the European Union in the relevant "acquis" and that does not always mean moral commitment, there is no obligation for medicines to be published in minority languages. When I say this, I, of course, acknowledge or agree with your initiative, and also with its reasons, that the instructions in the field of nationalities should also be made available in the languages of these nationalities, for these reasons, as stated by you. And if I had time, I'd say some other things. Let me mention, of course, that there are certain problems that prevent us from, for example, bringing medicines, at least foreign producers, into our country with their instructions in those same languages, in Hungarian and in Italian. It is a matter of different indications, they are not always the same and there is a very strict regulation in this area, in what way and in what form a directive can be shown. Let me finish my answer constructively. On the one hand, there are about one-tenth of medicines in our country, of which there are 300, in which, with our entry into the European Union from 1 April onwards, we will be able to use direct instructions in Italian and Hungarian, because it is a so-called central medicine regulated at European level with identical instructions in all languages, i.e. in the languages of the two nations in the European Union. For all the other medicines, we have already taken the initiative and we have now consulted manufacturers on how to provide the appropriate translations, because there is no legal basis for making them available to all citizens. Above all, who speak languages of nationality, and here I do not think that it will be so difficult to obtain appropriate translations, which will then be available to citizens, at least in the field where they live, by means of a computer pharmacist, or, of course, those who have this at home, will be able to do so at home. This means, we accept your initiative and we will try to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Complementary to the question, colleague of Possonchev. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your kind answer, and I hope you have taken the initiative seriously. Those who do not understand the Slovenian instructions will not be able to search the computer because they do not have computers. I suggest we add a leaf to the pharmacy and then solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u42	The minister wants to complete the answer? No, no, no. The next question will also be at your address, Mr Minister of Health. He's going to be put up by a buddy of mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. The question is addressed, as was already reported last week, to the Minister of Health. I have before me a letter from the Association of Health Institutions, which brings together 62 health homes, i.e. all the health homes of Slovenia and where they talk about their human resources pressures. Among others, it is stated that 200 general doctors will be missing in primary health care next year, 20%. And that they must now solve this problem by violating the rules, by hiring retired doctors, by concluding business contracts, copyright contracts and so on, to the extent that they satisfy the needs of the population. Health reform, of course, has promised elegant solutions or at least some approach, at least some start to solve such problems. Last year, the Ministry promised that the health reform would be completed or that the public debate would be closed on 15 October and that it would follow the writing and adoption of the National Assembly, as is clear from all such national programmes, followed by laws and regulations and genuine reform. We somehow felt that it had all fallen into the water, that there had been virtually so much criticism at the expense of the White Paper, that there would be nothing in fact and that four years in the field of health were missing in this mandate. Then we learned in the media that in fact the health reform had already begun, that the realisation of things had already begun, and because we are still in the middle of a debate, public debate on health reform, and we are somehow confused in the National Assembly, we don't know where it started, how it started, I ask you: In which areas have you already started the reform and what will be the further dynamics in the implementation of health reform? What problems have you begun to solve? In which direction and, in fact, what will we do with this reform if we no longer decide on the reform, the White Paper, the National Health Programme? We'd really like to make it clear. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a picture or a clear answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u44	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, with regard to human resources pressures. You are probably aware, but I will be able to explain now that with the announcements, including by the Ministry, that we need new doctors and new nurses and other health personnel, we are serious. This year we have adopted or are just before adoption, because the general agreement has not yet been adopted, it must still be dealt with in the government, 150 new doctors over the renewal of the number of doctors, and this money is provided in the budget of the Health Insurance Office. In addition, 200 new nurses are expected this year in the same way, and these numbers are therefore foreseen. I do not want to say that there is much, but I want to say that this is within the framework of what we have announced that we need 700 new doctors by 2010, while today we will have some more opportunities to respond to the needs of the healthcare sector in more detail to the other Member. If we move on to reform, I would like to say that, even when we have put the reform into public debate, we have made it clear that it consists of work where we need new legislation, and from work where the existing regulation also allows for changes if, of course, they are adopted in an appropriate way, with some of these changes, of course, taking place more effectively if and when we change health legislation. So let me first say what we started this reform and, of course, not this year, because they have been at this level of preparation for years and which we claim to have been dependent on agreements between partners. I mean, of course, the contractors, the payer and the Ministry of Health. First of all, I think that this year, after we did this experimentally last year, we are introducing a new way of paying for health services in hospitals this year with April, which means that we will allocate a significant part of the hospital budget to health treatment. This concept is known to the Member, whether it is a group of similar cases or a diagnostic related group. What we introduced last year, and about 10% of what we counted this way last year, will be made 100% this year. Let me say this because I do not have the opportunity to go into detail, that other experts have also found that this is a fundamental motive in reform, how we will increase the efficiency of work in hospitals. The second thing we started, however, is that it makes sense, is the so-called central coordination of orders in the public system. In this area, too, we have been predicting this for at least two years, and we have been constantly encouraged by the directors of public health institutions to start already with joint purchases in the Slovenian space, which is so small that it makes sense to acquire the main elements together. We last year, I think I had the opportunity to report this in Parliament, to make so-called pilot supplies for six hospitals that volunteered and participated in these pilots. We don't want to do this to ourselves, we just want to coordinate the procurement services of the contractors. What happened? In a total purchase, which was indeed small for the health situation, was worth 400 million, we saved 19%. From this we are expanding these supplies this year. We are voluntary again this year, of course, because we do not have the legal basis, those institutions that want to cooperate will join us, and we anticipate that we will be able to absorb some billion money for purchases and expect adequate savings. The third area, which is already known, is the regulation of medicines where we introduced so-called reference prices in last November. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity to say that after the first month where there was a lot of talk, prices jumped, of course not prices, but stocks in patients for 14 days, significantly reduced the cost of medicines in November. Of course, we're waiting for this information to last for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Complementation of the question, colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you. First of all, I am not exactly impressed with the methodology that once a large amount of material is given, some programme is given to the National Assembly for consideration, a public debate, and then in a short time a small part of this programme is exempted from further consideration and, of course, goes on without any negotiation in its solution. But there is another problem that I wanted to raise with the original question. In fact, the staff force is also questionable in the field of pediatrics, gynecology. The White Paper is nowhere, even in that chapter, which should provide for this profile to continue, i.e. the chapter on funding, the second objective of financing basic health care, and where the doorkeeper is listed to enter the health system only as the general doctor who gradually passes into the family doctor. And only after the public revolution was so strong by collecting signatures did you remove or leave out a pediatrician and a gynecologist again did you forget your psychiatrist. This is probably still waiting for signatures to be collected, and you said that gynecologists and pediatricians will have exactly the same role as before. I believe that this role is not good and that a change in this role has already been required by the National Health Programme, the Staff Staff Regulations, because we have places in Slovenia where 5,000 women come to the gynecologist and other places where 15,000 women come, three times more to the gynecologist, and this balance, this concern for the completion and regulation of the staff, of course, has already been imposed on you by the Health Services Act of 1999, the National Health Programme of 2000. This is neither in reform nor in your current promises to regulate the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u48	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u49	First of all, let me tell Parliament once again that what we are doing today and what the Member has almost made clear that we are working too quickly, because it will not be possible for Parliament to discuss this, to ensure that this is exactly what can be done in the existing system's coordinates, but that it will also be necessary and we will be able to work more effectively if we change the relevant parts of the legislation as well. So that the debate on the formal aspects of these changes, which we are now merely practically improving, is still ahead of us. As far as pediatricians and gynecologists are concerned, allow me to repeat on this occasion that the White Paper did not interfere with the relationship between specific specialties. She hasn't touched any of the 40 specialties we have around this country, and for every specialty it makes sense that she has her own network. Of course, each specialty will not have its own network in a microgeographical location. For some of the narrow specialties - and this is Dr. Tuckati's very clear, we have already discussed this in the past - the network can only be in one place. For example, top-of-the-line services are provided in one place, and in this case, gravity is the whole country. For some other services is a network in a small village. And when we discussed the white book only about this concept and only when we touched on it, who is a suitable doorkeeper in this geographical small area, to cover the same fact that it is a few inhabitants, who, despite everything in the middle of the night, want to get to a doctor quickly or to travel - there is still a small Slovenia - a little longer to a larger place where there is another doctor, who is also a doorman, but in this case also has to work 24 hours a day. In this concept, we have written down the idea that it is appropriate to encourage a family doctor, as the European Union has adopted. We didn't prejudge that. Not only have we not preconceived, we have not even opened a possible question for pediatricians and gynecologists. Let me just mention that the number of pediatricians and gynecologists in Slovenia is very similar to Europe, unlike some other specialties. And of course we'll make sure that that's what's gonna happen. However, we will also have to resolve the micro-completion of some geographical locations with the local community. We want to cover ourselves with white foxes. You know how hard it is to do that sometimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be raised by colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members! I ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Mr Dimovska. The government has consistently stressed in its last term that the country's concern for social, health and other security is at the highest level. Mr Dimovski, you have also assured in the past at your previous meeting, my colleague, Victory Jelinčič, that all parliamentary issues in the field of work, social and family are irrelevant. But that's not the way it is, Mr. Secretary. The Parental Protection Act provides that the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood is protected by one of the parent’s parents up to the third year of age. However, it must cover at least half a week's liability. The Centre for Social Work shall decide on the rights granted by the State in the payment of social security contributions from the parent who is caring and protecting the child. Of course, on the basis of the right to a shorter working time with the employer. And the last one's got a problem. In practice, there is inequality between parents in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me give you just a few examples. When young mothers, because of co-ownership of a company where they are employed or engaged as independent entrepreneurs, are not entitled to the rights mentioned above. They pay contributions like everyone else, they are employed, they have a contract of employment, which means they receive personal income. It is true, however, that some of them are principals and here are state-owned entrepreneurs, mothers who, despite their hard life, decide to have children, refuse to help. Worse yet, deny them the rights they belong to. And that's what you call caring for an increased birthrate. What's the problem? The Centre for Social Work subsequently finds that the applicant is the owner of the company, so it could not present a contract of employment on the application, as it cannot conclude it with itself. The mother, as the owner of a share company, is therefore not to be insured on an appropriate legal basis, which is the basis for the exercise of legal rights, and therefore the application is rejected. I ask the Minister for the Family: How can the contract of employment of a part-owner of the company not be a contract of employment at the same time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u53	I should see this decision exactly on this particular issue. It does not seem logical to me that a contract of employment would not be a contract of employment. I don't think that makes sense. For this reason, I would ask you to inform us of these specific cases, even before the questions raised by the Member States, which could then be answered with a clear answer. However, in my reply the previous time I answered the specific question of Mr Yelinčič, I never said that the debate on the social state was irrelevant. Moreover, I have said that it is actually very subjective and that it will also be such in the future that, of course, the concern of the social state is the concern of all of us, not just of a certain source. In general, I think the issues of the social state, social security, are often reduced to, I would say, a particular sector, not an undetermined right, but that is not the case. When we do all these international comparisons, we can find out, and this has also been demonstrated by the analysis and also by the results and the last report of the European Commission that we are actually very, very comparable, but when we talk about the social state, there is never an end to concern for a citizen and a citizen. That is why, in this particular case, I hope that the matter will be clarified and clarified, and I also believe that there may be some mistakes in the Centre for Social Work. As far as parental protection is concerned, let me say that the legislation we have adopted in this mandate or adopted it on the basis of a proposal from the Government, in fact, meant a substantial extension of certain rights in the area of parental protection and family benefits. Let me remind you that we are, in fact, almost the only country in Europe that has a maternity leave of 1 year, 100% paid. At the same time, this law on parental protection and family benefits has also introduced an institution of paternity leave, which I must say is very often used this year and that, in fact, fathers who are looking for paternity leave for these 15 days are very large and I think this is just a contribution to, to say, a better parental life, parental protection. Another issue that we have also presented in at least some of the issues and the professional public is the national programme for development and the rights of the child, a national programme that will have, in its own chapters or almost two chapters, also a family decision on the child and so on and will be based on the latest research and initiatives of the civil spheres. This is how I count on these issues: parental protection, parental protection systems, family benefits, that we have a comparable system, and I allow, in individual cases, derogations for such or other reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you, Minister. Completing the question, please, colleague Sonja Areh.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your answer. I would add that you have this complaint at your Ministry of Labour. Now I can also tell you that this complaint states, say, I can quote you, but you better take a look at this for yourself. But I would ask for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u56	Is there anything you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much for this statement. It is clear that the Ministry of State, in some cases a second-degree first-degree resolution body, will, of course, resolve this through professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister of Labour. The question will now be raised by Comrade Pohorec to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Bohincu. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your word. Mr Minister, since this year is the year of elections and referendums, this issue can be more topical than ever. I have received several comments from the mayors and secretaries of the municipal electoral commissions and other professional members of the municipalities regarding the award of the municipal electoral commission, in particular the president of the municipal electoral commission, who has, as I have been told, failed to verify, the award for the holding of a single election or referendum at the level of the mayor's salary, gross or net salary. To these people who probably know it well, it seems that this award is disproportionate according to the time invested, given the work done and the responsibility compared to the mayor, if the mayor has to do 176 regular hours on a certain schedule of work and come plus all Saturdays and weeks for any other activities, the time spent by the President of the Electoral Commission is there, about 15, 20% of the mayor's working time. Of course, the salary is the same as the mayor's. Technicalally, the administrative work is carried out by the professional staff of the municipal body. The President of the Electoral Commission, however, has one session before the elections or referendum; on election day, of course, the referendum is present, and then he has another session after the elections, he has a report and the work is finished. However, I received another comment from some of the presidents of the electoral committees, who also have one flat-rate prize. Among other things, the award for those costs of coming after electoral material and then transferring the results to the municipality, if local elections or to the administrative unit, in the case of national elections or referendums. But they get 1,000 tolars for that kilometer all the same, that's what they told me. And the difference is also 30 kilometers that someone makes, and four times they have to go, they make 120 kilometers for one election, and they get 1,000 tolars, just like the one whose electorate is two, three kilometers away from the seat of the administrative unit. I wonder if you'll do some analysis in this regard, get this data, check it out, and suggest any changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Member, Valentin Pohorec, for this question. At the outset, let me say that so far, in the practice of the work of the electoral commissions and the municipal electoral committees, this issue has not been detected, at least not according to our conduct. For us it is critical, this scepticism to the correctness of rewarding one and the other something new. At the same time, we have also looked into both communities or the community association as well as the Republic Election Commission, and at least so far, in preparing for this response, we have taken the view that the legal arrangements for the award of the President, the Deputy and the members of the Election Commissions are entirely correct and that they correspond to both the responsibilities of the work of these people and the scale of these people. It is for the members of the electoral commission, the deputy and the president to make extensive and responsible preparations for these elections at least a month, if not days before the day of the election. These include, as you are aware, not entirely logistically organisational questions related to the functioning of the electoral committees, the information bases in this regard, but also important and responsible tasks related to the certification of the candidate papers, the identification of the electoral results. Finally, they are responsible for the correctness and correctness of the elections to determine the electoral outcome of the report, as well as the resolution of the electoral rights claims. All of this says that it is a matter of responsible action and that it is a reward, as prescribed by law. There is something else entirely different about the work of the members of the municipal electoral committees. This work is limited to a day or two, on the day of the election or the day of preparation before it, and it is also appropriate to reward it. The award shall be in the form of diaries and the corresponding costs, travel costs in this regard, but must be individualised and not on average for all, irrespective of how these costs are. Nevertheless, Comrade Pohorec, we will examine this question that you are raising. We will examine whether any of the arguments you are referring to here may be supported in the opinion of others. Like I said, we haven't been able to track it. If there is a belief, perhaps in one community or in a community or in an election committee, that any changes must be made, then we will do so before the elections. So far, however, the findings have not shown us in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Completing the question, Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you. I said I didn't know enough what the president of the electoral commission was supposed to do today. The mayors and secretaries of the municipal election committees of at least three municipalities told me. That's why I've referred this question to you further. I was alone on the electoral boards and committees when we were still doing everything for free. Not later, though, when this work began to pay. Thank you very much for your answer. I hope you'll check whether that's true or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u64	The next question will be raised by a fellow mag to the Minister of Health. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! You are probably aware that Article 25 of the Health and Health Insurance Act provides that some persons have the right to payment of services when it comes to urgent treatment of persons, even though they are not voluntarily insured and do not have to pay for this contribution. This law was passed in 1992 and has been virtually 12 years and has not been enforced. Why didn't he do it? You must also know that because a submarital act has not been adopted. Here's your responsibility. The question is also: why not also in your mandate have you adopted this act, a sub-legislative act which would allow some people to use health services without having to pay for this voluntary insurance? What are these people who would be exempt from payment? These are the categories from the margins of our society, people with disabilities who need help and services, people with disabilities with 70% disability according to the rules of the law on pension and disability insurance, those who are over 75 years old, then those who benefit very much from health services because they are very sick and are tied to hospital services, those who are recipients of social services, that is, those from the bottom of the social ladder. My question, therefore, is why in these years of your ministry you have not issued a sub-legislative floor and provided these benefits to persons belonging to it. On the other hand, in the white book, you promise to do so. Was it necessary to pay $300 million to promise this when you have a law written down that it is only necessary to do so? That's my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u66	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I am grateful for the question that I will be able to say again some of the elements of health reform. But first, to your question. Surely we could say how it is possible that some citizens - in my opinion they are not so few - do not recover for ten years from my mandate what the law gives them. This is, of course, a question that I am not asking to citizens, but to the law itself, which, of course, is clear to those groups of citizens that we say are depreviated to the extent that they are also unable to recover their rights under the law. The second thing, of course, is that this law does not in any way give all rights. 25. Article only refers to those rights in the event of urgent treatment of these persons listed. This means, even if they recover, and in individual cases this has happened, that means - later I will be able to say more about it - these citizens would by no means be equal to the others. And that's the injustice of supplementary insurance. Complementary insurance for those who cannot protect themselves simply prevents access to justice, not only that, but also for those among 100,000 or more citizens who do not have this insurance for different reasons, and among them are the socially lower layers. Even those with minimum wages or those with minimum pensions not covered by this Article, except when they fall into the category of the poorest citizens. But in this case, it only offers them the most urgent treatment. Practical answer. During these 10 years, the health crisis has been resolved informally. I hope that in most cases, in such a way that citizens who have sought help have simply not been required to pay, even though they have not been adequately insured. This was done by health professionals themselves, and in the past I was among them myself. Another method that was very rarely used to enable them to apply for and obtain an exemption from health insurance in the institution. Unlike previous solutions, the White Paper foresees a complete exemption from the payment of supplementary insurance or surcharges. Let me just say that at this very time, the final preparations are under way, in what way we will solve this problem. However, I can guarantee today that the following 100 or 150 thousand people will by no means have to pay any supplementary insurance over compulsory insurance in order to obtain all and not only the necessary rights, which promises a package of healthcare rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u68	Completing the question. Please, my friend mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with your answer. You're asking a question to the law. This is an insurmountable answer to ask a question to the law. The question is put to the Minister. On the principle of equality, it is necessary to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens. So, without working for some, if they have submitted a role, some have simply not been told, but it has not actually been done in accordance with the law, because a sub-legislative act should be adopted in order to adopt the criteria. You didn't accept this submarital act. And that's what you broke the law with. You didn't execute, and the ministers didn't do it in front of you. But the fact is, for 12 years, people have been played. They had no right to do so and had to pay for voluntary insurance. Or they had to pay for this emergency health service. One or the other. Some, on the other hand, have submitted a role and may have felt sorry for the situation or that they have been lucky and informed. Maybe someone didn't feel sorry for them. What kind of business is this in the country? This is not a proper business for those of our weakest citizens. It's the performers themselves. This cannot be a systemic work, however, when the law clearly states that it should set standards, standards, in agreement with the Minister responsible for health care. You just didn't do it, and that's not the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u70	Complementary response, please, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u71	Let me do the follow-up. I don't know if we got along by accident. First of all, I say that this law does not comply with health problems even when it is formally fulfilled to make criteria for poverty. It still allows such citizens only emergency services. And I completely disagree with him. You can ask me, of course, but you'd do something anyway. I have come with a general law or reform, I apologize, I come with a general reform, and I hope that this year we will also adopt a law that will give all these citizens all rights and equalize them with all citizens, including those who can pay these rights. My answer is on this level, before you this year will be the law that will solve this. Of course, the question is why this law was not on January 1st, my first term. Let me say that, at that time, I have also heard in this House that reform is not necessary, that everything is regulated, that only cosmetic corrections are needed. Also by the Members. This is not the moment that I try to bear responsibility. Of course, we have tried to take care of these individual cases, as we have encountered them. We are, of course, wondering what has happened in the ten years that at least some of these citizens have not articulated it. I allow the belief, the hope that maybe there weren't so many. Although I'm skeptical of it myself, and we've been extremely critical of it in the white book. We have clearly criticised this. Solidarity in the fact that all citizens have the same package of rights must be guaranteed and cannot depend on someone in particular being insured with the same premium of voluntary insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next question will be raised by my colleague Levič, the Minister for Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr Booth, Minister of Agriculture. Yesterday, a congress in Rome, so far the European Green Party Federation, was concluded, today the European Green Party, bringing together 32 parties from all over Europe. It is a group that is comparable by number of MEPs to liberals in the European Parliament. Slovenia is represented by the Party of Young Slovenia, including co-founder of the European Green Party. Congress participants, including 1300 of them, have also found some foreign minister and European Commissioner, accepted several documents, including a resolution on the slaughter of wild beasts in Slovenia. This is due to your decision in the form of a recently issued rulebook on your part. In the 2004 rules on the seizure of large beasts, you allow an extraordinary discharge, killing of 8 bears, 14 wolves and 2 lynx. At the same time, it is not clear what an extraordinary shot is and, in particular, it is not clear how many is the actual number, i.e. the size of the stock of the animals intended to be shot. The resolution expresses concern about such a way and calls on you to obtain scientific basis for such decisions before the decision is taken to determine the actual state of the wild animal population. I ask you, Mr Minister: Do you know the resolution and if you intend to take action and change the decision and act in accordance with it if the call of naturalists and opponents of hunting is unnecessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, it is an extremely sensitive area, but in some ways it must be regulated. A sensitive area is because we have such or different views in our society when we talk about hunting. We have the position of those who believe that the hunt must be abandoned and the views of those who feel that the hunt needs to be increased and those who feel that it is necessary to deal with such and other, as closely as possible coordinated interventions into space. Personally, I am not a hunter, but I have additional problems because by law I am obliged to sign orders or decisions, otherwise we may also allow anarchy in one country. With regard to the specific issue of regulating the population of large beasts, Slovenia is one of the unique countries in the European space, especially unique in the Central European space, because we are practically the only ones to have in addition to Bosnia and Croatia a mention worth or a large number of wild beasts, in particular we are unique in terms of the number of wild beasts and space. In Slovenia there are estimated to be around 700 bears and about 80 to 90 wolves. Why around? This is an assessment made on the basis of monitoring. However, it is clear that the number of bears has tripled over the last 20 years. The reasons are different, from wars in the Balkans to policy changes in this area. Second. If we come from the point of view that there is a need to act on certain professional grounds in a certain area, and as long as this is the case, we need to take note of what we are talking about. In fact, the number recorded in the regulation or in the order, I apologize, is the number that is exclusively and entirely proposed by the special expert commission, which has been determining this number for years. First, the Forest Department prepares a professional foundation. On this basis, the expert committee, composed of representatives of all or directly involved spheres, shall draw up a proposal to the Minister on the basis of an analysis of the proposal by the Forestry Office. This proposal is less than last year in the bear field for this year. This proposal foresees 60 regular shootouts and 20 so-called exceptional measures, as well as the consequences of accidents. On the other hand, as far as wolves are concerned, there is no regular shooting this year, which I would like to stress in particular. The only exception I have requested and also achieved by signing differs from what was given by the expert commission, which proposed 14 medium-range arrows, but I myself proposed that there be no regular shootings of wolves in Slovenia this year. So there are no regular shootings of wolves in Slovenia. All those who are can only be due to the urgent need, on the basis of this it is only an exceptional withdrawal. This means that in the event that an animal endangers the life of a person or property, an emergency recovery measure may be carried out in this case. Why and why such a number? As it is said, this is a proposal from the expert commission made up of representatives from various ministries and also from the professional public. As for the concern of the European Union, I would like to reiterate here that this concern of the European Union is double-faced, double-minded, certainly all the efforts that I have made in the countries of the European Union alone to take on these beasts for God's sake, bears for free, except for transport costs, have ended with us being concerned, but we are not prepared to take on any of the animals ourselves. And the fact that all these great countries have virtually no three bears, France has none and so forth, and they have historically had several times more than Slovenia and should have several times more territorially, speaks of a two-faced appearance and a two-faced position of the European Union. I think it is a very clear answer if the countries of the European Union that are so concerned about the great beasts also take over these beasts, it would be indisputable to manage large game in Slovenia differently. If you succeed in convincing your parliamentary groups, I am the one who belongs to my political options, and someone else, and then I think that something can change as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u76	Complementary question, colleague Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased, and I am also very surprised by this duality of Europe. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union will significantly exacerbate the protection of animals, especially of this endangered animal species. Here I am interested in the following: if Europe is going to give some signal that this is wrong or that you will change the policy of shooting these animals if Europe is going to demand it? But I'm joining in if you do anything, and we're gonna try to do something to save them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u78	Minister, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. If it were, I always say, if it were concern and the actual readiness of the European Union countries, then even with the bear population in Slovenia as a Central European country, where we are talking about neighbouring countries of the European Union about a few pieces or maybe something 10, 15, 18, 20 really would be so much more authentic in this case, I am sure that this problem could be solved in a much more friendly manner. I am very much in favour of him, and that is why I want different decisions to be made here. In this case, I think it is possible for me to understand the conversation with the European Union. We are absolutely prepared for every conversation, we want them, but it does mean that, according to my assessment, this problem, based on the proposal of experts, cannot be resolved without the cooperation of these countries. The main problem with Slovenia is simply that a bear needs a certain space of life and other bears in this life space simply does not leave. This means that an increasing number of bears, supposedly critical experts say, are also the result of feeding, adding in terms of, say, carrots and the like, because instead of one or one and a half bears are numbered over two to the nest, this means that there have also been certain changes here, which are due to a possible excessive interference of man into space. And if we define otherwise in Slovenia, it takes a social consensus to spread the bears from their present narrow place of residence, that is, from Kočevska, Ribnica, Notranjska and in one particular part of the Alps against Styria, to Koroška and north of Ljubljana to Gorenjska, in which case this is another matter. In this case, however, the space of the bear may also be extended. But it takes social consensus, of course. However, I doubt how enthusiastic this will be for locals, residents and the like. That's the story.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u80	Good. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the questions. Comrade Bevk will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! On the basis of laws on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, the Government adopted a revised long-term mine closure programme for the period 2001-2006 at its 101st regular meeting on 12 December 2002. The law also includes an environmental rehabilitation programme due to the consequences of mining and improving the health care of the people of Idria. The first part of this programme includes the ecological recovery of the consequences of the five-hundred-year operation of the mine, which mainly includes the rehabilitation of buildings where too high levels of radion radioactive gas are measured. This is where both kindergartens in the city are particularly affected. In addition, it is also necessary to systematically measure radon in more than 90 buildings in the city, which are built on combustible remains. It would only take 36 million tolars to measure the radon. Only on the basis of such a study will a program of rehabilitation be possible. The second part of the programme includes the health care of former miners and residents of the city of Idrija. The results of previous studies have shown that Idri miners are more exposed to disease and death than a comparable population in Slovenia. The mortality of miners due to lung cancer reaches even the mortality rate of miners in some uranium mines. The study also showed that all cancers in miners are greater than the average in Slovenia. Preventive health checks should therefore be organised for about 800 former or retired miners. On the basis of this programme, measures should be taken to create conditions for maintaining the health of the inhabitants of Idria who have been and are still affected by the consequences of mercury, radon and harmful substances present in the living environment and the food chain due to long-term mining. One of the proposed measures is the increase in the number of medical teams in Idrian health care, which will allow preventive health checks for risk populations. That's what the program says: In the Government's view, these measures are justified and necessary, so I ask the Minister, Dr. Teo Petrin: How does the government and the competent ministry intend to implement a revised programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idria, which also includes ecological and health rehabilitation and to provide the necessary financial resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u82	Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A nice welcome to all Members and Members of Parliament and thank you for the question. The Ministry of the Economy, as it has done so far, will ensure that, within the framework of budgetary resources, we are also earmarking for the recovery of mining damage, namely for systematic reviews of former miners, then for the systematic measurement of the radon content and their short-lived offspring in buildings built on burner residues, and for the continuation of research, the impact of mining on the health status of the inhabitants of the city of Idrija. These funds were provided in 2003 and are also available in 2004 and 2005. However, it is important that we get to these results as soon as possible from the research and studies already mentioned. Work in this area now shows that the results are expected to be known in 2005. These results, as agreed with Idria, will only show and provide the basis for the development of a comprehensive environmental rehabilitation programme, or they may reject the current problem of guilt, perhaps the fault of the mine for all the environmental problems in Idrija and for the poorer health status of its inhabitants. The law on the study of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, Idri, identifies the necessary works and means of closing the mine and, accordingly, allocates a great deal of funds. There is no provision under this Act for the rehabilitation of the environment and for the improvement of health care for the people of Idria. This is precisely why we have commissioned this research to provide the basis for the necessary activities, if it is proved that this disease is due to mining, then, of course, we would be looking for new sources of funding on the basis of a new or amended law. At a given time, however, according to the means at our disposal, as we say, we are already providing for systematic checks and for measuring the personality of radon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u84	Complementary question, colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister very much for that answer. The fact is that since 1996 the State has been providing funds for the rehabilitation of damaged sites on the surface due to the sinking of mine trenches, so that the state has done its job here. However, it will also have to do its job in the area of recovery of consequences, as you said, as well as in healthcare. The research done by Dr. Aleš Gnamus is a mercury in the land and food chain, a ten - year study has shown a great deal of environmental burden with mercury. We also know from history the very great ecological disaster of 1956 in the Gulf of Mina Mata, Japan, where one of the chemical factories threw 82 tons of mercury into the bay and then poisoned more than 12,000 people, 750 of which died. That is why I think that this problem needs to be given more attention, and in the coming years, even when mine 2006 is to be closed, these things need to be saved and provided with additional financial resources, even with the amendment of the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Complementary response, would you like a Madam Minister? [[No, no, ……]] My colleague, Dr. Brace, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! There are still fewer than 100,000 unemployed people in Slovenia. New cases are being announced at the time of entry into the European Union. We read about 10,000 in the media. Unfortunately, there are also a number of cases in Slovenia where employers act unlawfully. Let's say I have a case of meridian workers here. I don't know if you know this case, Mr. Secretary. This is Meridiana from Kobarid, who has been working in this textile industry since autumn 2001, fighting for basic rights: wages, status, to go to the institution eventually and so on when the employer threw them on the road. It was clearly a violation of the labour law, a breach of the collective agreement. Your inspector was there, he threatened the workers, not the workers, the employer, the employer threatened the workers, if they had to pay the fine, they'd rip it off their salary, and so on. Then, let's say, here's an 11-year-old case of unpaid debt to small-time miners. Last July, you talked about how successful you are in these individual cases. You mentioned Pekko, the Ripper. The matter, as we know, is not settled. We have, in addition to large unemployment, predictions of unemployment and major problems, in particular in industrial activities where industrial workers and workers are involved, it is important to note, on the other hand, that the labour inspectorate does not actually work effectively. An active employment policy does not produce the results that a person would expect, given the large-scale paper that would be available to us and from which it could be concluded to the extent that something is happening. There is also an example of these seminars for computerization. I get a lot of letters from people, they say, after so many years and so many years I've been sent to a computer science class, what am I supposed to do with it now? I did everything I had to do, and I don't get a job. Does this mean that these computer science courses benefit those who organize them more than those you send to these courses? Not only in computer science courses, but also in other forms of functional education. The case of subsidised employment is also problematic. Many, after receiving a subsidy for a worker who is to be taken into employment, decide a few months later or perhaps even in the same year and forgive him. Mr Minister: How do you assess active employment policy measures in the light of today's events and how can the number of unemployed increase after May 1st?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u88	Please, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much for that question. From your previous position, you know that this is a question or question that you have asked, that it is very wide and that it can be answered on the one hand on the subject of employment policy more broadly, about the problem of unemployment more broadly. I'll try to answer those questions first. Of course, the issue of employment is very important and I think it is one of the central issues that we must, of course, also respect in Slovenian society. Let me just say at the beginning, as far as unemployment is concerned, that it is in some ways a residual indicator of all policies. This is said to be the case if economic growth is too small, a smaller number of jobs will be created. If changes occur in the customs field, this will affect jobs. If the school system is inoperable, it affects jobs. This is said, in the end, the question of unemployment is, of course, a residual synthetic indicator. I wouldn't be here right now with international comparisons, because we've talked about this a lot. However, it is always a question of how actively the country then acts in the event of the resolution of individual surpluses. I must say that since 2004, on the basis of the programme you signed in August 2000, it is now finally the so-called 2004 National Employment Action Programme, which represents the first European Employment Programme and follows the European Employment Strategy. The results as they are are are significantly higher or significantly more effective than they were years ago. In fact, the active employment policy together retains more than 10,000 jobs and the creation of more than 8 000 jobs in 2003. This is what goes on in terms of active employment policy. Of course, it goes through a variety of active employment policy programmes, where practically for 2003 we can say that it was about 150 000 inclusions, which then resulted in such and such a number of employees. Many of them have received employment, but many of them have become more educated and have become more qualified to search for employment more effectively. As far as concrete cases are concerned, let me say our basic point of view that rights must be respected, so as regards the labour inspectorate, it is clear from the work inspectorate's programme or report that the index, if I may use it, is significantly higher than it was years ago, and, of course, the index of the number of decisions issued. The productivity of the labour inspectorate is increasing. It is clear that, in all cases, unfortunately we cannot find the culprit in each case, of course we are, and I reiterate that every employer's application for a violation of any labour right, under any law, on protection at work, on the law on labour relations, can also be anonymous because it is basically about protecting labour rights. As far as individual cases are concerned, of course we are informed. Most of all, they are informed at the district employment units where individual cases are dealt with. Unfortunately, when workers or workers come to the employment agency. We want virtually all policies to go in this direction so that the transition to so-called open unemployment is as low as possible. As a result, we also had some completely new measures already last year and also this year. Let me mention that in last year's so-called Escada case, where it was a redundancy from the Mure case to Escado, without the employee going to so-called outright unemployment. I also said about concrete data on Peck's employment after we joined the ministry, and it was a large majority of the workers who got hired. Some were enabled, some could get a job, and so on. I think we're actively encroaching on this part. But as for other things, let me just say that I think it makes sense for unemployed people to also be computerised, because access to individual jobs is also possible through the use of the Internet. In the vast majority of cases, the unemployed did not know how to use the Internet, and I find this meaningful. There may not be an effect immediately. Could be an effect in a while. But let me say that by entering the European Union [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will also use the so-called Eures system. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u90	Would you like to complete the question? Please, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I must say that you have not answered anything about how the Inspectorate should function better. I find it difficult to accept that it has increased efficiency when, say, we have the case of Meridiane workers who say they have notified the Inspectorate in Cyprus, and this one warned Ms Katja Stok and threatened with a financial penalty. But he didn't do anything. It is hard to believe, then, that the inspectorate does its job and pursues the illegal work of employers, but of course the inspectorate does not do its job. I expected at least something to be said about this programme for effective entry into the European Union, presented by the government last July to the public, where on pages 20 and 21 of the talk on structural reforms in the labour market and promoting employment. When this man reads, I get the feeling none of this was done. I have the impression that we are actually talking here about things that, at the principle level, can be very interesting. But you don't solve specific cases. In your interview, you yourself said this Saturday in one newspaper that people have known for seven years that we will join the European Union. The Ministry of Labour has also known for seven years that we will join the European Union and we fear that its programmes do not reflect this awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u92	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u93	There was a lot of work done during that time. I can, of course, talk very long about what was actually done here. You yourself know that because you have been following this well, in fact in the year and a half, almost eighteen, nineteen months, more than 120 different laws have been adopted and there are also sub-legislative acts from different segments of European character. After all, there is not a single law in this package that is covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I tell you, in fact, the employees you know well have done a lot of work here, and they have made a great deal of effort to ensure that this legislation was in some way in line with European legislation. As far as reforms in the labour market are concerned, I apologize if I cannot convince you of this, but I have on my board in room nine blocks and it is written "Work Market Reform". And these nine blocks have practically been a so-called labour market reform since day one, only that we have not named it, but we have actually implemented individual programmes, individual structures, substructures of this so-called labour market reform. And, if you want, we can also present to you about this report, in fact, any such segment of labour market reform. Of course, there isn't enough time here right now to do that. An active employment policy is the active role of the country in the labour market, and I must say that this year this programme is, for the first time, a European programme. Linkages from active employment policy are also part of the programme of effective entry into the European Union. If you have read those three indents there, there is one of these indents that says: "We will accelerate the employment of young people up to 26 years of age also through certain tax structures, that we will employ older than 55 years of age also through the so-called 'tax credit' and that we will address certain other segments and more vulnerable groups even more precisely". That's basically how this structure exists. However, the fact is that, this year, of course, we will also use the so-called European Structural Fund funds of almost 3.2 billion, which will actually be allocated to so-called employment schemes. But then again and again, the problem of the labour market is when there's a recession. And unfortunately, it's coming up. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] concerning job losses. [[...]] We just want these job losses to be as low as possible and that the preservation or creation of new jobs would be as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u94	Procedural. It's a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to propose, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the State Assembly hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. He also said that this is an extremely important issue; it is more than a hundred thousand people living in an unenviable social situation, and it would be appropriate for the State to take this time to hold the debate I am proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u96	Good. This is a provision of Article 246 which, if so decided by the National Assembly, may provide for a discussion of the Minister's response to be held at the next meeting. We will decide on this tomorrow in the first decision following the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty, so ten minutes after the last item on the agenda this will be the first decision in the vote. Now there is no minister without a director responsible for European affairs, so that colleague Dr. Bayuk will raise this question next time. colleague Kangler Would you like to set it up now? You have that option. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We didn't get along. Eleven days ago, a letter from the Slovenian government was sent to the National Assembly, through which we were informed that they had adopted a communication at one meeting to the National Assembly on how many laws were still to be adopted in the next two months until 1 May, because this was due to the talks held by the Government on 4 February in Brussels, where they were to be aware of certain difficulties to be left behind. It is 39 laws that must be adopted by 1 May and an additional eight or nine in the next two months, i.e. in the first half of the year over 40 laws. When we look at this list, it's about system laws. Some of them are known as the project, as they were also included three and a half years ago in the coalition treaty that finally formed this government. We can't think of anything else as if at least in this part of the game, we could say, "Imparium," but nothing more than that. We are interested, in particular, in asking a question to the Minister for European Affairs, because, as instructed by the Government, he played the role of coordinator with various departments and he also drew up this list. I was myself interested in getting a message from the government, as is normal, from the European Union, but I did not seek it in vain and have not yet received it. We expect to receive from the government a formal message from the European Union from the Commission on 4 February when these things were being reviewed. I would also like to ask him or the Secretary-General of the Government, who is not here today. I would like to ask him how he imagines that we will do so without violating the rules of procedure of the State Assembly, because this is actually impossible, at least in a legal way. Then the question is: What happens if we don't? Are such urgent things really going to have certain consequences that we don't know yet? Is the government actually willing to present to the National Assembly a clever list where they will really include only those matters that are really necessary? Will the government explain what will happen if we cannot do so and who will be responsible? Will we hear again what we hear every day that opposition is responsible for our government’s failure? I would expect a written reply as soon as possible, because these are urgent things, and of course an oral response to the future session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u98	This question will be repeated at the next meeting and you will receive an oral answer. My friend Kangler wants to ask the Minister of Education. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister! I am very pleased that you are in this Chamber today and that a large part of the government representatives are also present at this meeting, because you can answer Members directly. As you know, several times my voice in this Chamber has been heard in this direction, that I have asked questions about some centralistic views, centralisation in this country. Above all, I have asked questions about the centralisation of labour, capital and the like. In order to decide to ask this question to the distinguished Minister Gabr, I must say that I have been approached by a student who is studying at one of the universities abroad where he made a comparison between the University of Maribor and Ljubljana. In these statistics and some of the data that I am about to give, I just hope that this data holds, are from the internet, there are big differences between one university and another. I ask you: In Slovenia, scientific projects of Slovenian universities are shared through scientific research councils. Individual members of these councils are appointed by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Currently the university has the following number of members in these worlds: social sciences: law, economy and so on, University of Ljubljana 10 members, University of Maribor 0 members; biotechnical sciences: University of Ljubljana 5 members, University of Maribor 0 members, Humanities: University of Ljubljana 4 members, University of Maribor 0 members, Science and Mathematics: University of Ljubljana 6 members, University of Maribor 0 members, technical knowledge: University of Ljubljana 10 members, University of Maribor 4 members. These are the only 4 members of technical knowledge where the University of Maribor has its representatives. I ask you: On the basis of what criteria and when did you appoint representatives to these scientific research councils? Why didn't you listen to the minimum balance between universities? We have a third university, and I think it would be right for this balance to be established. These councils share projects through these worlds, and thus work places for young researchers and enable the development of individual faculties.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member! Membership in the Scientific Research Councils of the Republic of Slovenia, which decide on the research policy in that country, is governed by a special rule which provides in Article 10 that members of the Scientific Research Councils are national coordinators for individual fields within certain knowledge. At the same time, Article 14 of this Regulation states that national coordinators are persons who meet the conditions for head of the research project and that the Minister appoints them on the basis of criteria for a specific research area between candidates - and this is crucial - proposed by programme group managers and managers of ongoing research projects. Just as many times have been in those parts where vacant cities have been called members of these worlds. This is a very interesting situation according to different knowledge, which shows, among others, the coverage of individual knowledge at individual universities in Slovenia, as you say, we have three. In the Science and Technology Council, we have received 24 proposals for members and members of this Council - none from Maribor. So the University of Maribor also proposes membership in these worlds. Because there was no proposal from Maribor, there was no logical way to inform anyone about this world. The Council of Technical Sciences - there were 136 proposals from Ljubljana and Maribor, 27 proposals from Maribor, of which 11 people were proposed from Ljubljana from the University of Maribor. Then there was the relationship in the structure of the world that I named, 10 from Ljubljana and 4 from Maribor; I told you earlier about the data, it always tells you how many proposals there were, because on the basis of the proposals it is possible to name. Medical Science Council. 28 proposals came to the medical sciences world, this happened before we founded a university or university of medical medicine in Maribor. Four suggestions from Maribor. The evaluation of the professional services was that, among these 28 proposals, 8 are important better proposals than the four, which is why no one has been proposed from Maribor. In the world of biotechnical sciences - for this world we have received 28 proposals together - no proposal from Maribor. As a result, it was not possible to place anyone in this group. There were 44 proposals for the Social Sciences Council, 5 proposals from Maribor, but all of these proposals were for the Ljubljana coordinators. The University of Maribor has itself proposed coordinators from Ljubljana. In the world of humanities we received a total of 17 proposals, of which two were from Maribor for Maribor. Again, according to the expert services, these two were worse than those who were appointed. That's what this procedure looks like. I believe that when people are called in the next period, especially in the field of medicine, when the medical faculty is already there, it will be different in that area. I hope that people from Maribor will also propose themselves to people who are from Maribor, not especially those from Ljubljana, then it will be possible to do otherwise. Otherwise, the number of young researchers, you mentioned - the participation of the University of Maribor in the tenders was successful and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's growing. [[...]] So much for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. To complete my answer, I invite you to the word of Mr Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. According to the Minister-designate, the average citizen could understand that there are two culprits: on the one hand, there are professional services, because those proposals proposed by the University of Maribor were not suitable or less appropriate. On the other hand, I understood, Minister, that the Mariborians themselves did not propose to some of the councils of their representatives or propose others. But I'm asking you, given that we still have a third university and you have all the legal basis and as a minister the possibility: Are you thinking that because of the creation of the Third University, we would try to name people again in these research worlds and invite all three universities to re-propose their candidates and thus strike a balance between all these three universities? Undoubtedly, even in medical sciences - given that we received a medical faculty in Maribor - and I thank you and all those who have contributed in any way to this, personally, that we deserve to have our representatives from the medical faculty also Maribor. Indeed, it is insufferable that these relationships in this list, which is also published on the Internet, are very sad. I'm very pleased that you've informed me that much of the blame is also borne by the University of Maribor. If that's true, I don't know, but the ratio of 48 professors from the University of Ljubljana and 4 professors only from the University of Maribor, and it's only in technical knowledge, this relationship and this balance is not appropriate and not sustainable. So please answer this question: Are you thinking in this direction or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. There are reflections on the complementing of these worlds, we have already discussed the possibility of complementing this subject in discussions with the University of Primorsk on this subject, even on the basis of this question of yours, we will continue these discussions. However, I would like to draw our attention together to the fact that the regional key is only one of the keys, and scientific excellence is the first key and must remain so. So, one of the keys - yes, but not the key that will dictate the choice in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before asking a question, I would like to point out to the Minister that I would like to have the real answer - not the one that I received on multiple interventions in the matter when I asked how much of the Ljubljana Bank, when it was still in state ownership, was settled in a lawsuit in the case of the Tržaška Credit Bank. I received an explanation of Italian legislation and no financial evaluation. Now, here's my question. With Slovenia entering the European Union on 1 May this year, the borders between Slovenia and Italy and Austria and Hungary will become internal borders of the European Union. Customs infrastructure and customs clearance will be significantly transferred to the eastern Schengen border, however, it seems that the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia is misappreciating financial resources for facilities at this border, as if the amended facts were not concerned. As an example of unwarranted investments, I refer to the example of a customs office building in Sežana, where there is no need to replace the very good aluminium windows with new windows. 8 superluxurous and expensive photocopying machines were acquired Cannon, each printing for themselves, and each is worth over 3 million SITs. In 2003, new air-conditioning facilities were installed in each office of administration, while customs officers on the eastern border have been working in containers for 13 years and in summers without air conditioning and in winter with poor heating. Also at this time, all the lights in the administrative building are being replaced, although the current lights are still very good. An excessive number of new service vehicles are also purchased, while at the same time five to six out-of-use vehicles are parked in the parking lot of the building administration. That's why I'm asking: Are all such investments carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act? Why is it necessary to spend too much money on the customs administration building, which we will virtually no longer have tomorrow, or has no prospects in the long term? Why is money not directed towards regulating crossings at the southern border with the Republic of Croatia or the eastern border? Why is the Ministry not planning to move Sežana customs administration to Illyrian Bistrica, since Jelsana’s international border crossing is one of the three main border crossings? Why did certain privileged lobbyists with good ties at the top of the policy manage to make investments even when they did not need them? Is it true that broad - scale orders will also cover the resources that will go through the provinces to pay for the electoral campaign of two leading government parties? Why was it that, when the time frame for entry into the European Union was known, there was no programme to close existing customs posts and improve the working conditions of customs workers on the eastern Schengen border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Dusham Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much for asking. I'll try to be as specific as possible. The works carried out at the premises of the customs office of Sežan - you are right to have certain works done at this facility - are part of the necessary necessary work to ensure the vitality of the facility. This is a business building that was built 28 years ago and will be in the function of a customs service facility even after Slovenia enters the European Union. The replacement of windows and glass panes was necessary due to poor tightness and heavy heat loss and the resulting high heating costs. With regard to the replacement of lamps, it is necessary to say that this should have happened much earlier, since it was a matter of completely inadequate lighting of the premises, which was particularly evident when computers began to use at work. Almost three decades ago, when the building was built, we did not know computers at the customs office. All investments are, of course, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The claim regarding the purchase of eight superluxurous and expensive photocopying machines for the purposes of this customs office of Sežan does not hold. In 2000, only three more powerful photocopying machines were purchased for this office, replacing long-lasting and write-off machines. They're needed in the customs office because it's a huge amount of paper business. Since 2000, no new photocopying machine has been purchased. However, all that the customs office has, including three more powerful ones, will be needed after 1 May 2004, as the operations of the office will still take place at 11 locations. Moreover, the claim that new air-conditioning facilities were installed in each office in 2003 is not true. Given that there are 21 offices in the building, that would mean 21 air conditioning devices. In 2003, only 5 air-conditioning facilities were allocated to the Customs Office, of which two were allocated to the meeting room and 3 to the offices. However, the air-conditioning facilities were purchased before 2003 for residential containers in which workers work on the border with Croatia. As regards service vehicles, it must be said that they are procured for the purpose of carrying out the operational tasks of the customs service. Such activities usually take place during working hours. The workers must have cars after the tasks they have done where to park and CU Sežana is a parking lot in the customs office's business building. So parked cars are not cars outside of use. The number of service cars, in our opinion, corresponds to the needs of this office. As far as redistribution of workers is concerned. The rules are laid down by the Customs Service Act. Thus, regardless of the provisions in other regulations governing the allocation of workers, a worker may be assigned for a specified or indefinite period of time to another post corresponding to his or her education, knowledge and abilities, either within the customs office or from one to another customs office, as well as from the customs office to the general customs office and vice versa. The scope of work in an organisational unit, the acquired knowledge and skills of an individual worker and the provision of optimum organisation of work are circumstances that affect decisions on the allocation of workers. The fact is that the vast majority of jobs, such as border crossings, are located outside urban centres, which means that all workers have to drive, sometimes longer than they would like to. However, it is also in the guardian's law: the worker cannot be assigned to work elsewhere without his consent if he has spent more than two hours in transporting public transport equipment to work, and they do not have such cases in the customs office of Séžán. At the same time, we note that the proposed relocation of the administration to Illyrian Bistrica would now be a more expensive solution. Finally, let us recall that the customs service of the tasks defined in the Customs Service Act does not only perform at the border, so the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the EU and the removal of the western borders will not stop the work of the Central Office of Séžan and its role will be changed as a result of the adoption of the European Customs Regulation. That's how much my answer would be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u111	Mr. Secretary, excuse me! I don't know if you're that naive or you can't look the truth in the eye. Looks like the answer was written by lobbyists who forced such extensive investments into a location that won't survive in the long run. It's 800 million tolars of SIT investments, which I think is a lot of money. How does the Customs Administration do that? What's in the back? These are serious questions. First of all, you haven't answered me at all, is there any funding hidden here to cover the electoral campaign, as has happened many times? For the desperate state of public finances should be a serious question that would need serious answers. In fact, you must also pay attention to what, say, public finances work at this court coup in Telekom. Because if this is true, which is said to be one of the main reasons for the former Director's dismissal, to reduce the LDS' electoral campaign funds by more than 100 million, then these are very serious matters. Of course, there is talk of sponsoring funds for 3 billion, and even in this case, when state institutions deal with government money in the same way, there is no doubt that funds for some other purpose are being hidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I agree that this is a larger sum, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ljubljana customs office is also essentially covering border crossings at the border with Croatia. It is said that you do not have concentrated offices and administrations along borders and this will also, of course, apply to that part of the border with Croatia, this southern part, which will be covered from Sežana. This will keep him in Sežana, and this investment was necessary. On your question whether the funds for the electoral campaign are - of course we use the invitation to tender and in accordance with the law on public procurement, such contracts are also awarded, so that here, in order to be the means for the electoral campaign, I do not know that this would be determined anywhere in the law on public procurement. This is, in my opinion, a professional decision taken by the General Customs Office. The individual purchase or execution of works depends on the needs of the individual office and the available financial resources and it has been assessed that such investment in this building is, of course, necessary. Thus, from this point of view, I cannot deny the answer to the question that these funds would be for the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health will be asked a question by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, there has already been a lot of talk in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act on outstanding healthcare issues. As always, the Ministry of Health replied at the time that the area was regulated and that it would soon be regulated. However, I note that instead of regulating and correcting the situation, there are always new problems that suggest a deterioration of the already poor health situation. It will probably get worse for both healthcare professionals and patients. At the beginning of the white book is written: fairness, accessibility, quality and efficiency. Those are very nice words, but I wonder: Or did you take it seriously when you gave as Minister a green light to start a debate on the White Paper, the content of which is not directed to you in order to ensure the reality of those words? In addition to pediatricians, gynaecologists, dentists working in prevention, and children’s and young dentists, health workers’ unions are also advertised. They have already submitted their comments to the Committee on Health, Labour, the Family, Social Policy and People with Disabilities of the National Assembly on the consideration of amendments to the Health Act. According to the trade unions, however, the White Paper provides misleading information mainly about nurses and medical technicians. On the one hand, we have a shortage of staff to care for, and on the other hand, there are a large number of medical technicians and graduate nurses who are difficult to obtain or who are not able to train at all. When do you expect the Ministry of Health to prepare a patient's categorization and determine on its basis the actual needs for healthcare personnel? Have you ever, Mr. Minister, taken on the role of a nurse who has some 50 patients to care about, some of whom may need their help in changing beds in bed because they would otherwise get beds? How much more weight does a nurse have to put off on one working day? One doctor told me that he had calculated that one night a nurse on duty had to do as much of a physical work as she would have to put a ton to two tons. Of course, he also needs to do the rest of the emergency work with patients. I ask you: Are you sure that at the time of the burden described, you would be pleased to do so while ensuring its quality and effectiveness, even though you would know that you are carrying out your mission? So I ask you: When and how will you deal with this problem, or will you wait so long that you will receive calls not only from trade unions but also from patients? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Madam Member of Parliament. If I first answered whether I was ever present or as you said, if I was aware of the health problem, let me say - otherwise it would sound a little pathetic - for many years I worked with the nurses during the day and night, also with them patients in the buildings where there was no lift, on various floors; and, of course, as a doctor, I did it substantially less than they did, but still voluntarily, because I knew they had a lot of work to do. Nevertheless, let me now answer in a serious way. First of all, the number of employees does not depend solely on the standards, if that were the case, we should have 2,500 more doctors right now. By standards - if I just say the case to the other Members - we have heard the last presentation in the media that we lack 12,000 graduated sisters. If that were the case, we'd need 50 billion dollars for their wages. If that were true, the current money would have fallen to 25% just for the patients we're spending another 40% now, because 60% of the money is already paid. It would reduce the amount of health services, because you trust me that 50 new billion this country will not be able to spend much longer on wages, not on nurses, not on doctors and other health workers. So, of course, we try to develop the system as much as our body belt allows. In other words, as a social product grows, the standard will be greater not only for patients but also for employees. Let me calm you down. Despite all the recognition I am giving on this occasion to the nurses for their sacrificial work, we probably cannot believe that in countries where they have four times as many sisters on paper, they are four times less likely to work. It is obvious that each of us adjusts our work to the existing hours, and certainly the standards of care for our patients are those for which we have to ask ourselves, not the standards of work for a nurse. If I answer another question, which is often asked of us - our statistics on nurses. It has to be said that this country has been building for a long time, decades, on middle nurses that we don't have today because we've shut them down and we've declared them to be medical techniques that don't fit. That's true, it's only overnight that it's not possible for 11,000 medical technicians that we have today to turn into graduate nurses. It takes time. Let me remind you that surely almost everyone in this room besides the doctor had a midwife who was a midwife at her own birth - and today it is no longer. But this country, hospitals and health homes still use what is not a sister. We are waiting for appropriate initiatives by health care organisations - not only to be presented to us, how many graduated sisters we need; and I admit, we need more. Our grades say we need at least 1,500 more. But also the way in which today's medical techniques, not all of them, but try to reclassify by training at work, at least in the position of a senior nurse, in order to replace the gap and do what we really need. We need to improve the relationship between medical technicians and graduate or senior nurses. That means we can't pretend that 11,000 medical technicians is something called "ob." These 11 thousand technicians also mostly raise the patients you mention or turn patients who have bedside manners. These techniques do this and do a lot of other things. True, today’s system no longer recognizes their proper education, but it must be imagined. Today's schools produce only 200 graduates a year. We'll be waiting years to significantly increase the number of graduates. I also told you what the cost is. Another way - and we expect, personally for at least ten years now, when I have persistently repeated calls in my previous positions: let us arrange this second part for health technicians, the most ambitious among them, to try to cut down after higher education [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic, would you like the Minister to complete his response? Here you go! Here you go, Mrs. Tisovic. Mr. Secretary, can you turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. However, you talked mainly about nurses, and I also highlighted patients' issues. Actually, the nurses called earlier, it's the patient who'll be the last to answer and when the power of opportunity forces him to get the patient's voice to you. That's why I think we should just do something. I believe some things are overblown, some things are too small, but this is where things have to be arranged. We have to admit, medical personnel who work also doctors are a problem - but also for care they are very burdened, we have to admit that. That's why I'm not entirely satisfied with your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u121	Madam Member, I may not be myself. I would also like to see more health workers where I have been in the past - also in the interests of citizens. But I can only make a comparison and say that this country has a relatively good position and good health care for its social product; that it does, as we tend to say, on the shoulders of employees, but many other sectors say, "We work on the shoulders of employees." The options, we can assure you that we try to improve the quality of work for patients - not only on treatment, on curativa, on what is related to doctors and it is hoped that we talk more about doctors, but also how care is needed. For example, we establish conditions for care units in many Slovenian hospitals this year. For this reason, we increase the number of graduates by 150, which is small, but quantitatively means something: it means moving to an important bearing role of nurses in the care field in hospitals. And if we continue this trend, we will grow by number in the coming years. But it's a leap to increase this ratio that we've fixed on midterm nurses for 30, 40 years, and today all of a sudden, we say, "Let's turn all the middle sisters into graduates, it's going to be hard." We need more action than I said to increase this relationship. So I agree with the problem that you are opening up, I only promise that we are doing our best to solve this problem; the problem can be solved in a time series and not at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers and ministers. Dear Minister, my question does not concern a large group of young people, but it is important, because of the problems and special circumstances in which these young people are in need of assistance and attention. Since their future depends in many ways on the quality of their education, their responsibility lies with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In Slovenia, there are several educational institutions that include young people from primary to secondary school and do not live with their parents. Since there are more hours of schooling in the institution and because they cannot, most often, count on the help of the family, they should have a firm social network at the end of school, which is for a successful and speedy integration into a single life of vital importance for all. For these young people, who often face learning problems and behavioral disorders during schooling and overcome with appropriate professional help, self - conquest is even more difficult. Some of them, therefore, break down and all that has been done to involve them in society goes wrong. Therefore, before complete independence, it would be good if, even after the age of 18, an appropriate form of monitoring and guidance could be provided when a legitimate need is identified, so as to overcome the most sensitive period. However, for the time being, there is no adequate legal basis for such monitoring. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How do you plan to bridge the legal void that would allow some young people to better and better integrate into independent life even after the age of 18? For material possibilities, such as housing, could be guaranteed, but the legality of the right of the tutor to enter the apartment was lacking. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u124	Mr. Secretary, Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Members! As the Ministry of Education, we are working in educational institutions, where we are trying to correct behavioural and functional disorders, as they say, and we are trying to help those who have not found understanding in families or families who have not been able to support young people during the primary school period and during the secondary school period. There are several such groups around Slovenia and there employees are trying to find a way to work with young people. They try to prepare them for their own lives and to create, I don't know, their own path, even their own family, if that's their choice. It is true that we usually do this until the 18th or 19th years. It is also true that those who fail to do so during the normal number of years of schooling continue to be helped. That is how we know the examples of this assistance and this support there for up to 20 years. But I am reminded by the services involved in this professional work that, if within the school system, even after such a person enters a profession when he is of age, they would continue to retain this person in such or different status as a person who is not standing on his feet, they would go through what the educational doctrine would do. That is why we believe that when people are full - time, when they have been cared for, it shows that they are looking for their own way forward in life. After all, they do not seem to forget that they are not alone in being alone. Taking care of anything else in this regard, at least within the school system, would probably make more sense than this school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That's what I've been asking you. It is a matter of very proper concern at the time of schooling. However, it is about that time after school, when some individuals are not personally prepared to live their own lives. In some European countries, young people who have encountered such problems are accompanied, including by 26 - year - olds, in England. Even in the case from which I raised the question - it is a Maribor youth home which has a very modern approach, I would dare to argue and also a quality approach to solving this problem, and the question arises if I have a government home to get an apartment from a donor, where some young people could be installed, which, according to the profession, would be good for them, to be accompanied for at least some time by experts. For these young ones, that is certainly beneficial. I don't think it's really about education anymore. Because the sad part of this story is that these young people rarely get to higher education. As a rule, they complete vocational or secondary education. However, it would be possible, or I expect, to look for a way out in this direction too, to find a legal basis so that teachers should monitor them remotely and also enter the apartment where necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you. See, this question in certain parts, not only goes beyond my powers; it seems to me that others are more capable of answering it. And my ability to think about it in a very precise way goes beyond that. I can promise that we will try to hold a debate with one of the neighbouring ministries on this. However, I think it is most likely that in the event of young people agreeing to cooperate in this way, it is possible to do so by law today, while imposing on the law that someone would enter such premises against the will of someone, and I am afraid it would require more consideration than we are able to do here and now. So I thank you for the question, and we will probably, together with the Ministry of Labour, think about where the need and the sense of concern, when people reach adulthood, comes to the profession. And fortunately, some also go to school, and then again this system continues to care for them, in another way than in this critical period which we hope is behind them. I'm saying, once again, we're taking care of a lot of people there by the age of 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Minister without a department responsible for regional development will raise Mr Jože Tanko's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you. The government has tabled a proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development into the legislative process. It has established 14 development regions with which it has covered the entire territory of Slovenia. The regions are designed more or less by joining the undeveloped area in a developed area, usually in the municipality. This has achieved that the state of development of individual even larger round and developmental problem areas has risen to a higher level, the highest average, which has greatly deteriorated and masked the actual situation. Just for instance. The wider area between Ljubljana and Kolpo is approximately 2,600 square kilometres and has about 140 thousand inhabitants. It has very bad demographic indicators and is very rarely inhabited. There are not enough jobs in it, so there is a large day-to-day migration. There are no important and successful companies; there are extremely poor state-level institutions; there are limited factors for agriculture; therefore, the province is growing. This is where the Kočev and snow park are planned, where there is a large majority of the great beasts present, and the area is divided between the lower and central Slovenian regions, between the two most powerful and most pervasive Slovenian regions. The whole area shows very poor statistical indicators, and these municipalities cannot take advantage of these indicators, or this area of indicators, since so far the development of funds has been allocated according to a certain key within the region, both between successful and threatened areas and so far the differences and the development backlogs are not shrinking. More! This law will also serve as a basis for the spillover of the so - called regional development funds into rich areas, rich congregations, and thus completely miss their purpose. I'm asking: Do municipalities with sufficient income and no need for financial compensation and such areas even fall within the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, in which they are treated equally with undeveloped municipalities and run even for the same resources? I'm also asking: Would it not make sense if we wanted to develop a country in a coherent manner, to create such completed developments in the region in which they would link the lagging areas and from which the developed areas would be excluded and thus allow all other economic operators to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Zdenka Kovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Of course, all Members and Members, colleagues and fellow ministers are welcome. And, of course, thank you for that question. While it is true that it will be possible to give a more detailed explanation of everything that has actually served to create this law in the debate itself about the law that will emerge in the parliamentary procedure. The direct answer to these two questions raised is why each development region should also have a centre and why it should not be linked primarily to the less developed community, but it is of course two matters. On the one hand, we know that, in fact, in view of the existing shelter, joint development programmes and joint implementation plans on individual areas have already been developed as well - we are currently talking about twelve regions. We also know that this is based on our report on regional development, that in some areas things are simply not working in terms of regional development at the moment, regional development programmes have not been adopted and, in some cases, regional development programmes have been designed differently than statistical regions. This was one of the starting points from which we came up with a new proposal. Secondly, of course, more important is the one on which we can base more coherent regional development. We deeply believe that at the time of setting up the common infrastructure and preparing those programmes that will increase added value, create new jobs and strengthen the development of human resources in an area, and finally attract more investment into an area. Of course, we have also come from the fact that, if we want to build such an infrastructure, it is essential that such circular functional development of the region has a common centre and, above all, a large enough physical mass of the population in some area to make such a matter easy. And this has led us to the fact that the current 12 statistical regions, including through an in-depth debate that we have led both on the ground and through different stakeholders, who are actually supposed to make up this so-called leadership or management body of the future development region, have come to this list or to this distribution of development regions in Slovenia. Of course, we are not talking about the provinces here as a future, for example, a different level of local self-government, but we are talking about the establishment of infrastructure for development. It is a link between the economy, municipalities and the non-governmental sector within the framework of the so-called regional development councils, which together and with the technical assistance of regional development agencies will prepare regional development programmes and implementation plans in those areas for which they themselves assess the purpose of building them together. Of course, everywhere where the municipalities have already given their views at this stage of the debate that they want to be in another region, we have examined the matter and they have also led the discussion and, of course, based on the arguments -where possible - we have adapted the matter to these needs. Sometimes, in two regions, there are still some questions that remain open, and we allow them to form things differently at the time of the debate. This is how we want to establish a structure that will be able to prepare effective development programmes, development projects and which will be able to be a relatively equal partner in the country's negotiations on the development of an area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to complete the Minister's response? Here you go. Madam Minister, can you rule out [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you for your word and thank you for your answer. See, a lot of these developmental problems are becoming, especially because some areas are unnaturally divided. For example, if we look at the area between Ljubljana and Kolpo - everything is gravity in Ljubljana. All communication is gravitating to Ljubljana. Half of the area is divided into new town parts, the lower part, the southern part, and the north part into the Ljubljana part. The entire area, as I said, is large enough, with very concentrated problems, with very similar problems. I am sure that this area would be able to prepare a development programme for the common part, as it was known either for the Ljubljana or for the New York Development Agency. No problem. So in this regard, trouble. The other is - look, the concept is being put on a new one. You said it yourself. I think it makes sense that when the concept is being put on a new footing, all the options so far are being checked. In such cases, it makes sense that certain things are also being redistributed or otherwise designed. Somehow, however, I cannot avoid that there are some special interests in the back; in short, the area that we distribute in this way is raised by the criteria, its statistics are substantially improved, and in the end, the area is significantly less at risk than it is under actual criteria. In short, if it were a circled area, it would have status, say, Pomurje, by criteria; because it has been divided between two large and powerful regions, it shows very high quality data and is not, in principle, at all threatened. And I think it would make sense that if you were already making a law about [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] consistent regional development, primarily making the law for areas that are demographically and so threatened; everything else can be resolved in some other ways. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u139	Yeah, just another addition to that. So, the initiative that arises in this space between Igo and Kostel, as the newspapers have called it, is only known from newspapers. What I can say at this moment is that, of course, according to our assessment of the nomadic and fishing area, I will say, good enough and effective cooperation within the development region or the present statistical region - South-Eastern Slovenia, which should be renamed to the lower part, as they themselves wanted. And that, of course, this area partnership, which is designed at this level, has led us to actually define these sub-regions within the development regions by law now, as so-called regional development partnerships, which will be monitored in particular, because we know that there are great differences within the individual development regions. The same procedure, the same conditions we have proposed to these promised municipalities, as we might call it, of course, to form their development relationship and within this area a regional development partnership and this area is being monitored separately. But because of this, it doesn't matter to me that the centers that are actually global development generators in some area are now starting to come out of this to show us statistically how good or bad an area is. We know that most of these people in these sub-regions, but they live and work - or they work mainly - in the center. This elimination would distort the image ten times more. However, in the law itself we have foreseen this special monitoring and organisation of these regional development partnerships, in order to give just such areas as you spoke about the possibility of having them under scrutiny and that such areas also prepare their development programmes within the development region. And even more, we also have specific measures envisaged in the law that will be implemented in such areas in order to address the shortcomings specific to such sub-areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok, the Minister of Justice, will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u141	Dear ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! One of the painful, great traumas of the Slovenian transition is certainly a judicial backlog. For many years, our citizens have been waiting for their judgment. My fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, says that the right has been postponed, in fact the right has been denied. Apparently, the Slovenian government or the Ministry of Justice, which hired German judge Norman Doukoff, who studied the work in Slovenian courts for three years and then made some statements last November that strongly upset our judicial types. Among other things, he stated that the salaries of Slovenian judges were comparable to those of other European judges. He also said that Slovenian judges are primarily dealing with themselves, with their existence and material position, not with the role they play as judges, and with the work they are supposed to perform. The German judge also pointed out that the Slovenian judges had no external control and that, in fact, work that was not supervised could come quickly. These strong statements have been responded to by Slovenian judges, and I am thinking of the judiciary here. The arguments, why the backlogs were so large, were different, and most of the time they all went this way, when judges were lacking in the Slovenian courts. Statements were also made that many of the Slovenian judges are actually judges and that these judges are going on maternity leave and that these are also the reasons why they are so large. So the question I'd like to ask is in this direction, if it's too small for judges: Why does it happen in our courts that trainees wait years ahead of time to be able to perform a traineeship in a higher court and then be qualified for further work? I've already asked the Minister in writing. I gave him the role of a candidate who, with an award, completed over eight studies in law, which also had Zois's scholarship all the time, and today he has been waiting for almost three years at the higher court in Maribor to perform his internship. I'm asking: Why is that? What will the Ministry of Justice do to improve this situation? And: Where are the reasons or are these waiting times really justified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u143	Madam Vice President! Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that it is the fact that a judicial state exam is being carried out and therefore they are also waiting for a traineeship, a number of university-graduate lawyers, not just those who intend to become judicial officials or otherwise work in justice. As a result, these species are also quite large. On the other hand, I do not recall that there would be any finding, including by Mr Doukoff, which would point in this direction, that the judges are significantly too few, but, above all, there is not a shortage of at least the last five years, of no candidates for judicial posts. Thus, these two matters are not directly related. Nevertheless, we are aware of the problem of judicial traineeships, as according to data from the end of last year in Slovenia, almost 1,400 candidates are waiting for this internship. Waiting periods vary, including in different courts. Of course, it should be borne in mind that the annual number of graduates in law schools is now around 500 and that, as I said before, most of these university-graduate lawyers want to pass a legal examination sooner or later. To illustrate, last year, 246 candidates applied for a legal examination, i.e. those who conducted the internship. So this is the number of the permeability of this judicial traineeship. You're asking what the Ministry will do. We have already done something, especially by increasing the number of traineeships on the basis of last year's amendment to the State Judicial Examination Act. You know that this amendment of the law has brought about a slightly different mode of the traineeship programme, allowing for a slightly higher number of trainees to be accepted by the courts. If we are speaking of numbers: until recently there were 336 places available in Slovenia to conduct judicial traineeships, of which 208 with a working relationship in court and 128 such places, where the candidate was employed by another employer or a volunteer. With the already mentioned regulation, we have increased the number of seats by 128, so that there are 208 such jobs in the court and two more times in court, 128, that is, 256, those who are employed by other employers, and it is necessary to say that they are carrying out one-year preparatory work, while those employed in the courts are two-year-olds. So it is now possible for him to train 720 candidates within two years. The entry into the traineeship goes through two waiting types, so provides for the law, specifically Article 8 of the Law on Legal State Examination, Half of the candidates are accepted on the basis of an average study assessment and the other half on the basis of the time of application, i.e. on the basis of order. In this way, of course, those with better success can get ahead, even if they later graduated, some who are longer in line, so the exact waiting period cannot be told. I am confident that these changes will gradually start to reduce the number of those waiting. There are currently about 580 registered candidates in Maribor, which are classified according to these two criteria, and there are 120 places for traineeships; that is 60 with employment and 60 external ones. In these frameworks, of course, we can assess how much time can be taken by registered candidates. However, I expect the above-mentioned measure to improve the situation and shorten the waiting periods.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u145	Of course, I agree with you, Mr Minister, Mr Doukoff did not say that there are too few judges. He drew attention to some of the other aspects of our judiciary. The fact that there's not enough judges can be heard from the judges' society, says our judges. I expected you to answer my question with some hands. You say that it affects the choice of candidates needs and the study evaluation and that this can lead to overcoming. So it's a system that allows candidates, when they sign up, to actually never know when they're actually going to be in line, and gives higher courts or presidents of higher courts the opportunity to make these moves themselves. I would expect the Justice Ministry to actually make some strong rules for this area and that candidates, when they sign up, may know at what time they can count on it to be possible for them to do so. Once again, I ask you directly, and if you don't know it now, you can also give me a written answer: How long must a candidate with an average score of 8.5 wait in a higher court in Maribor? How long does it have to wait: either two years, or three years, or four years? So that would actually be the answer to that question and to the dilemma of many who are waiting there, but actually they don't know what time they're going to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u147	Of course, I cannot say the exact time frame for a number of reasons, because I do not know how many there are who have an average score of 10, at least I do not know. Of course, these are more and more today. The second is: I said, 720 candidates in two years in the whole of Slovenia. This means that in about three to four years, if not for an extremely good new candidate to outrun someone, everyone comes in line. And secondly, this duality enters, I think it's justified. So, if we were only to accept candidates, then some would never come. And so half of them on one side, half of them on the other, and so on, all of them gradually turn. But another thing was introduced by a new law, or last year's novel - a single record. So far, all higher courts, each for their own area, have kept records of the candidates registered, so that the individual can also apply to several courts. Since the adoption of the novel, a single record, which will be kept by the Ministry of Justice, is being regulated. In this way, in my firm belief, it will be possible to prevent any unjustified skipping, if I may say so, and in this way it will also be possible to predict more precisely when a species is expected to emerge - at least with half a year's or one year's accuracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thanks for the answers. I propose that public debate be held in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure on the Minister's reply. I am convinced that this is an extremely important matter during the period of our transition and that new problems and dilemmas must be clarified in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Alojs Sok to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide at the next meeting in the framework of the vote. We're moving on now. Mr Franci Rokavec will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! On 5 February, the Constitutional Court decided that 3% of the RTV contribution in Article 82 of the Media Act, which was intended to co-finance local, regional and student programmes, was of particular importance, in breach of Article 39 of the Constitution. At the same time, it repealed the rules on criteria for funding programmes for the content of radio and television programmes with local, regional and student status. The entry into force of the contested provisions of the Media Act and the Rules has been postponed for a period of seven months. The 23rd point of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court’s decision stated that it took into account the legislator’s intention to co-finance the preparation of programme content for local, regional and student radio and television programmes in a way that would provide a more sustainable source of funding. This was decided not to completely destroy the legitimate purpose of the legislator, who also clearly defined this method of financing when adopting this law. By suspending the effect, the Constitutional Court thus gave the legislator the opportunity to co-finance the preparation of programme content for local, regional and student radio and television programmes in a constitutional manner. The status has so far gained ten radio and television programmes, and at least so many applications for status have not yet been decided on at the Telecommunications Agency. However, I grant that the status obtained following that decision is put into an unenviable position by the broadcasters and TV programmes. I ask the Minister: How will the ministry or government ensure the smooth implementation of programme content of radio and television programmes with a status of special importance until the end of the seven months? What solutions will you propose to the legislator after seven months when the repeal of points 1 and 3 of the sentence has already taken effect? Considering that this has now been regulated in the law, I wonder: Has the government included a solution to this issue in the current changes and updates of the media law, and of course in what way? At the same time, I ask: What will be the fate of the already concluded invitation to tender issued by the Ministry of Culture under Article 82 of the Media Act? The invitation to tender expired on 31 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andrei Richter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Member! You've said a lot about what I wanted, and I'm going to say it again. It is true that on 5 February this year, the Constitutional Court repealed those provisions of Article 82 of the Media Act relating to the obligations of Radio-Television of Slovenia to exclude 3% of the title of the RTV contribution for the preparation of programme content of local and regional and student radio and television programmes. At the same time, this effect of the annulment was postponed for a period of seven months. And since you also quoted the Constitutional Court, I suppose you will also understand the purpose of the postponement these seven months. The Ministry of Culture, as you have already mentioned, issued its first call in January, as the Telecommunications, Radio Diffusion and Mail Agency prepared or awarded its first status in December, i.e. I am becoming ten. And if I listed them, they obtained this: Radio Kranj, Gorenje mega heart, Radio Trbovlje, Radio Murski wave, Radio Sora, Radio Triglav, Radio Robin and Maribor radio student Mars. The deadline for applying for this invitation was published on 19.12.2003 and expired on 30 January. The applications were opened on 6 February and the Ministry will inform the notifiers of the outcome of the invitation to tender within 45 days of the publication of the date at the latest. That's what they say by March 22nd. In the last month, the agency granted two more status: A TV signal Lithia and your channel named Your Channel. That is why, at the Ministry of Culture, we intend to make another call within the legal time limit set by the Constitutional Court, because we expect to be able to provide the necessary funds to all those programmes which have failed to secure the status, because we know that this will happen in the coming month and will also be eligible for it. These are also legal instructions given to us by the Constitutional Court. At the same time, there is a more permanent source of funding for these kinds of programmes in preparation to supplement the media law, where we are complemented by the constitutional institution, but it would be difficult to tell you all the details now because it is in preparation or in final drafting this week's media law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I would only stress so much in addition that the actual content and diversity and the specific purpose of such local, regional and student programmes are of particular importance in our Republic for the integrated information of citizens and citizens and, of course, also an essential complement to the content that the legislator had in mind when adopting the media law in the case of 3%. Of course, I expect that the actual proposaler will take into account this very unanimous or large majority role of the legislator in this decision and try to find a really more lasting source in how to resolve this issue. Above all, I am asking the question that it is probably necessary to examine, within the framework of integrated legislation, so that the necessary resources are actually provided. I believe that a partial redeployment of these funds will be necessary in this country. I am just asking and at the same time calling for a reasonable reallocation and a timely solution. Otherwise, in fact, both television and radio programmes that have gained special status are at this point wondering what and whether it was appropriate to make an effort to gain this status because they are in a worse position than the other programmes at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mr Janez Cimperman. Mr Cimperman, since the Minister is excusedly absent, I ask you kindly to say, after you have asked a question, whether you want a written answer or an oral answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I'll ask you a question. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! Even though there's no minister, I'm gonna ask him a question. The association of breeders of cold-blooded horses, the Haflingers of Slovenia, held a general assembly on 1 February, attended by more than 300 members. They were from all over Slovenia. I know that because I was there and I responded to their invitation. The reason for such large participation has certainly been the expectation of information about what will happen to the horseman after joining the European Union or in general. Unfortunately, they did not receive this information because no one from the Ministry responded to the invitation. More. One of the high representatives of the ministry, who had previously been asked if anyone would come from the ministry to attend that general assembly, even said that they did not go to each birthday party. Ignorance by the Ministry caused a lot of dissatisfaction and ill-will among participants, and several strong words were made at the expense of the Ministry. I ask the minister: why such an attitude towards the association? What are you going to do to make this relationship change? Will you accept the Board of Elders in your office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice will be asked a question by Dr Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Well, Mr Minister knows what I'm going to ask him, because I've asked him many times, but I haven't received an answer, not from him, not from Mrs Cerar, who is the answer to this question. This question is: What does the Secretary of State do in the face of the killing of the captives who were taken immediately after the war from the hospitals in Celje, Ljubljana and elsewhere? All of this was well documented in a book written by Professor Sturm and you probably know her. If you don't, get to know her. I find it totally unacceptable that we behave as if we were in a barbaric state, not your ministry, not your secretary of state, for the first time, not answering, for the second time, we don't know that there's anything she'd do, for the third time, there's no sign that she's going to do anything. If this happens again, not only in this area, but also in some others, because you also have a bit of a problem with it because it interprets the laws in its own way, then I would advise that it might not be bad if you suggest that this lady resign. I expect an answer, and I expect your comment on that. Besides, I also want to have a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u161	Dear Member, Dr. Bernick! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that you have already asked such a question, and already in November of last year we have provided an answer to the details of the report prepared by the Attorney General on the basis of this reply. If I briefly summarize the essential details in this regard, the following should be stated. I quote what is said in the report: The District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, the external department in Kočev, just on the basis of the data from the book you are mentioning, required the Ljubljana Police Administration to collect data on the events dealt with by the book. The police administration has submitted a report, and the prosecution has tabled a motion to redress individual investigations against an unknown perpetrator for a crime of genocide. The excavation of skeletons and the establishment of a forensic expert was also proposed. However, when the report was prepared, the investigating judge had not yet decided on this proposal. This part refers to all victims who were killed in the karst abyss, Confiney 1 in Greeks. The State Prosecutor's Office has legally classified these crimes as acts of genocide because it was felt that it was intended to destroy prisoners as a specific political group. With regard to the unknown number of wounded and sick members of the Home Defence Units who were captured in Ljubljana and killed in the so-called Brezoara Brena, individual investigations were also carried out, and on 30 June last year, the Ljubljana police administration was required to interview two representatives of the current authorities. With regard to the wounded and sick members of the Home Defence Units who were killed in the Iga area at the so-called Koszczak's Blaze and in the Iška Wintgar, the police, according to the State Prosecutor's Office, are still gathering notifications. So much for what was transmitted in November regarding your similar question. I understand that you want to know what has happened in the meantime, so of course I will request the update of the report in terms of new activities and possible new findings during this period from the report which I have now partially taken. As you yourself have expressed your wish, a written answer would be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thanks for the answer. I would very much like to see that letter that you say has come and then please add to it what happened then, and not just to stop at it, "it's being researched" because it can finally be researched by an adeternal, and we are not. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] So I think it's appropriate for the prosecution to go a little further and tell us where things are and where they're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Trophynik will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. Although it would make sense to address the government, as this is not the case, I have decided to refer it to the Minister of Transport, Mr President, even though he is not present. On Tuesday 17 February, in Brussels, the Committee on Regionalism, Transport and Tourism adopted an amendment concerning the Lisbon-Kiev railway connection, concerning the Ljubljana-Budapest route, so that the route would change, namely Ljubljana-Pragersko-Maribor-Graz-Budipesta and not as previously foreseen route Ljubljana-Pragersko-Ormož-Murska Sobota-Hodos. I ask the Minister: Is the government informed and what is the position of the government if the change of route adopted as an amendment to the committee is finally adopted on a proposal from the Austrian Members? What are the consequences, if accepted, for the modernisation of the railway at the Prague-Ormož-Murska Sobota-Hodoš section and for the development on this part of northeastern Slovenia? The reconstruction or reconstruction of the railway from Prague to Hodoš, however, included the funds we intend to obtain directly from Brussels. Next: Is this decision in any way related to a similar idea that was transmitted to the public by representatives of the Municipality of Maribor a few weeks ago? Finally, I want an answer on the final costs of building a new railway section from Murska Sobota to Hodoš, according to the original contract value. Is it true that the quality of construction results in a 50 - mile - an - hour - an - hour speed limit? Who's going to pay for the rescue and how much will this recovery cost? I expect to receive the Minister's reply at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the question to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice President, Your Honor! We've heard about this before today, but I'd like to hear it from other people. This is a disproportionate situation in public sector wages. We could say that, in this area, the real government is already a real anarchy and based on data that, of course, we have not been able to obtain in the National Assembly, but we can see some of them and read them in our media, which is strange, given that we discussed this in the National Assembly. As far as I can recall, my fellow Member has requested this, and unfortunately we were unable to win. But things are moving. On the basis of these published data, I ask the Minister of State: How will you act on what the government will do to enable the public sector's wage system to function normally as envisaged by law? As you know, this law should already be in force, but we have postponed it to 1.7.2004. Since this is really a huge imbalance, I wonder, ‘ What will the minister or the government do to make the marriage possible over a good or bad period of three months? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much to Mr Petan for this question. Madam Vice President, let me start with the next one. As the Prime Minister has said today, wage policy in the public sector has been very successful in recent years by measuring it according to the following two indicators: since wage growth in the public sector is lower than private sector growth, it is slower and wage growth in the public sector is slower than productivity in the public sector. These are two indicators pointing to the success of public sector wage policy. By the way, I'd like to say that 1.1% was growth in 2002 and 0.7% in 2003. Compared to 2.3% of private sector growth in 2002 and 2.1% in 2003. This data suggests slower growth and over-growth of public sector wages. That's one question. The second question, rightly raised, is the question of so-called disproportionates. The new system law on public sector wages, which would have been adopted in 2002, and also the policy agreed for 2004 and 2005. Let me say that an extremely good policy has been agreed with the social partners in terms of growth and I am thinking of an agreement on wage policies and the annex to the collective agreement, both for 2004 and 2005. It was set up to use half of the projected wage growth in 2004 and 2005 specifically to address imbalances. This is, of course, the beginning of the application of the law on the public sector wage system. Thus, the second half of the 2004 growth was only 1.56% and for 2005 total 1.5.2%, as the overall price growth, and the rest, as I say, was to address the imbalances. What will need to be done, and what has been done to really implement the system of wages with 1.7 in this year, as we postponed its entry into force for six months? Before this, let me say that the beginning of the application of this law is also a condition for reducing the difference between the highest and lowest wages. This is currently valid 1:12.3 and for this year, including the second half of this year, when the law is to enter into force, we plan 1:11.9. For the marriage to come into force, we have been making great efforts for a year and a half, not alone in the government, but together with the social partners. However, to make it clear to all that we will succeed, not only depends on the government and the negotiating groups of the government, but it depends on whether or not we and the social partners in the various areas are able to reach consensus on this. As is now the high level of preparedness and engagement of trade unions, especially after we have successfully implemented the law and its implementation on collective supplementary pension insurance, as it now shows, we will succeed in doing so. But it can happen that it will get stuck in some area. It can almost certainly not be stuck in areas where we are dealing with these issues without the social partners. This is the area governed by the regulation on official salaries, the regulation regulating salaries for directors of public institutions, directors and secretaries and the whole state administration. In this regard, I do not see any serious obstacles to the law in this work being able to be enforced because it is essentially a decision that is solely within the power of governments. In other areas of the public sector, particularly in the field of culture, collective bargaining has been very intense in the sphere of activity, especially in education. We're expecting some problems in health care. Three collective acts will need to be adopted. These are: a collective agreement on methodology, which is already largely harmonised and also applied, in the second part, that is in determining indicative jobs and in the collective contract for the public sector. The negotiations on collective agreements of activities are also ongoing. These are the three partnership acts on which consensus must be reached in order to lay the groundwork for the entry into force of the Act from 1.7 this year. We will make every effort to make this happen. This is also a condition for serious elimination of planned inconsistencies. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what our ministry has proposed and requested to be published in the media, and IAPES has made all the data available to it. Thus, data on public sector wages will be published each month in the coming period, so that they will be available to all supervisory authorities in order to eliminate the part of the imbalances related to the infringement of the legislation. What is a violation of the law must be distinguished from what is found to be non-compliance. I apologize, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, I wish you every success in what you've said. You know that in our party we have also supported these efforts to adopt, I think there have been 5 laws on public administration, including with pay. That's why you can trust me that I wish you success in this and the rest of you. But something would be right if we could probably clear it up. I do not agree with you when you say that there has been a very successful policy in this area. She can't be successful. I can agree with you, I trust you that information is when you said that growth has decreased. After all, we might ask ourselves why it has decreased more than is necessary. After all, it's mass, and that wouldn't be necessary. This would not be good to brag about, because what can be paid for the public sector can be done. We have nothing to hide here. But there's something else that's bothering you. These terrible differences. It's less than a lot of money, and it's such a big misunderstanding. That is, if I have the right information, it is 3021 public servants with individual contracts. These have probably exceeded substantially that percentage of growth as a sector as a whole. The others were probably deprived. That's how I can explain myself on the basis of this data. That is why I cannot agree that it has been successful. Maybe in one piece, but not completely. Because then there shouldn't be such terrible imbalances. At least then, to pretend it's not our fault, that's one of those, we don't have anything here. I don't think it's just flying at you. Let's get this straight. I don't want to go through procedural again. Given that I am not satisfied with this, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, I would call for a public debate on this. However, I would like to see this debate adopted when we vote on it to obtain this data from a government source rather than to obtain data instead of 3021, perhaps one 70 or 80 from the public media. However, I welcome this, but I would like you to have these 3021s at that meeting. I don't know if that's possible or in any form. For all these salaries, which should be public, they are not to receive this meeting in order to make it easier to discuss. I'm sorry I overstepped, but I took advantage of the time that I might later consider a procedural question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u173	I want to do it again. All data on public sector salaries are now public at the request of the Ministry of the Interior. On our home page, you have information on which home pages you can get them, the APIES agencies. I do not see any obstacles being drawn up as a material for Parliament. As far as policy performance is concerned. I repeat that a successful policy has been in terms of financial burden control, a high financial burden such as public sector wages. Now, through the public sector payment system, we also have this issue essentially under control and even more. The imbalances have not changed in any way in these years and have not worsened in any way. These are inherited imbalances, dependence on the will and assessment of trade unions, and what these relationships are, how successful we will be in concluding an appropriate collective agreement by June. If the assessment of trade unions is such as yours and mine that it is necessary to eliminate the tanesomerism that this means a great cancer wound in this country, then I am confident that they will engage in the resolution of these imbalances in a way that we will conclude appropriate collective agreements. This is a condition for the application of this law. I believe that this is a very complicated and big deal and I do not guarantee that it will also be successfully brought to a place within this period. However, I guarantee that we will do everything together with the social partners, that we will come to these consensus and thus eliminate the imbalances that have been inherited. In no way have these imbalances increased and changed in these years. However, I also exempt, of course, from the infringements of the rules, for which sanctions have already taken place, and so are they. These sanctions, however, have resulted in the very public announcements required by the Ministry of the Interior. This is not about any random discoveries that are now being made in the media, but regularly published, you can look at them. You will see this every month on the home page of the APIS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide at tomorrow's meeting in the framework of the votes. The Minister without a department responsible for regional development will ask Mrs Majda Zupan a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your word. Madam Minister for Regional Development! Slovenia is expected to receive €2.6 billion from the European Union's very indicative accounts for regional development and cohesion, if it continues to remain at least a partial beneficiary of resources to reduce the development of differences. For the time being, it is still seen as one region, which could quickly cross the 75% threshold as it already reaches 73.7% of the EU's general average and thus falls out of the beneficiary range. More importantly, how we will benefit from these funds within Slovenia within the regions. We know that there are significant differences within the regions. As the basis for the distribution of direct regional incentives to the regions lays down an index of developmental hazard, which can only be calculated at the level of the statistical region, but not at the municipality level, there is disagreement, which cannot be in favour of the less developed municipalities. How are you going to put an end to such differences? Do you plan to divide Slovenia into several regions in the future for inclusion in the policy of the structural elements of the European Union? Are they supposed to be cohesion regions? How will you ensure that the project of the development regions, as presented by the new proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development, actually complements the landscape design project as an administrative political decentralisation in the regional development segment, which is to be one of the key original competences of future regions. This is how you wrote in the proposal, and I conclude that you will not allow yourself to argue that the borders of the developing regions should also draw the boundaries of future regions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Member, thank you for this question. First of all, I must say that the questions have been asked so much that it is likely that it will be difficult in this short time, as far as it is available, to answer everything, so that we will particularly try to answer this question in writing. First of all, with regard to future cohesion policy. We will actually know where Slovenia will belong as a whole in terms of the implementation of cohesion policy only in 2005, when, of course, Eurostat, which calculates data on the level of development, will also publish this data. As we know, Slovenia has concluded its pre-accession negotiations with the adoption of the so-called unilateral declaration, in which it has defined its negotiating points for the three cohesion regions. However, this whole process of negotiations for one, two or three cohesion regions will only take place in 2005, when all data will, of course, be known. Currently, Slovenia is at 74.6% of the average European development according to the 2001 figures, and of course all these further data will depend on how fast Slovenia grew compared to other countries entering the European Union and the Member States themselves. We also know that, in fact, Slovenia has managed something, and I hope to argue this through a major agreement within the European Commission by all the ministers involved, namely that Slovenia, like the existing Member States, will be entitled to the so-called statistical impact if it approaches the 75% threshold. This means that within the future cohesion policy, a specific instrument will be allocated to all countries or all regions that, given the current state of development in the 15th century, would still be entitled to the most favourable situation due to the statistical decline in the average and will no longer be allowed to enter much less developed countries. This statistical impact is expected to move between 85% of the eligibility at the beginning of the period and then slowly down the degrasia scale. This will, of course, be all the basis for Slovenia's future negotiations for the next programming period, which we know will last from 2007 to 2013. How do we define development within this? I believe that in the current law that we are proposing in Parliament's consideration, we are establishing the necessary infrastructure, which will also enable all Slovenian regions to effectively draw on European structural resources and, of course, also more effectively implement domestic development policy in the next programming period and which will, in fact, divert our attention from those investments that have now prevailed in our investment intentions, to those investments that will truly contribute to greater added value in each development area, to better human resource development and to increased investment, which will open up new jobs and, of course, increase the competitiveness of each area. That is why, of course, we need a basic structure, but we also need the integration of representatives of the economy, representatives of local communities and representatives of that third so-called non-governmental sector, which we want to connect within the framework of the so-called regional development councils, and, of course, we need those institutions that will then be able to prepare quality projects. This is, of course, the basis for the effective use of these funds. The Development Hazard Index will, of course, be one of the criteria for the allocation of funds or for the location of development funds within individual development areas. Here, in fact, we want to establish a similar attitude between the individual development region and the country as Slovenia today has towards the European Commission. This is why we plan to have more development resources already through these criteria for those areas which are, of course, less developed within Slovenia and which will be able to quickly prepare their projects. But we need real partners there, like I said. We'll do this through this law, I hope we can assure you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u179	I'd be grateful for your written answer. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you a further question. The invitation to tender for European regional funds for the period 2004/2006, which could already be used from 1 January, is still not available, although it was announced for the end of last year. So when is the invitation to tender for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you very much. It is true here that we ourselves may have been too ambitious in forecasting deadlines, within which all the necessary procedures will be possible to adapt all the legal arrangements we need within our country in order to be able to define and implement a single programming document in accordance with the objectives set out. We are now in the final stage of preparing all the common documents necessary to meet all these conditions. We expect these calls to take place in mid-March at the latest.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic will ask the Minister of Economy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 5 December 2002, we addressed the damage to social property in Elan on the subcommittee on property transformation and ownership. To remind you of some of the events. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed and agreed to purchase Elan from the Economic Bank of Zagreb for approximately 7.6 billion tolars. Of this, it was a billion and a half to buy, and the rest were loans and start-up funds. On 18 March 2000, the SRD appointed a new administration, which began with financial consolidation and further restructuring of the company, the President of Primož Finžgar and the procurator of Uroš Korže. If you remember that famous contract. Uroš Korža demanded, and in the contract he wrote it down and received $35,000 for the start. This is also the case in the contract, which is contrary to our legislation. He received 35,000 marks for mobilisation and then, of course, monthly financial revenues, from 14 thousand to 17 thousand 500 net, without VAT. Mark, of course we understand each other. They also requested a 15% share of the base, which represents the total profit after tax calculation, increased for depreciation, which in 2002 amounted to about a billion 200. This was, as I mentioned, a debate. Three conclusions were adopted on this Committee. Until today, after a year and three months after that, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not responded. If I had responded to these conclusions, then we would have continued this meeting, as President Blaž Kavčič had promised at that time, when he said, "knows that we will re-examine it next time, as I said when we get the reports again." In view of the absence of these reports, I ask the Minister: When will the government respond to these reports?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Tea Petrin, please. Thank you, Mrs. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u185	Dear Member. Your question, of course, was very broad and very concrete, because it is certain conclusions from this subcommittee. I propose that we examine how the reporting delay has occurred and then provide you with written observations. If you'll excuse me, there may also be a question related to the success prize for the procurator, Mr Corget. Under the management contract d.d. I must say, of course, that since 2000 the premium has not yet been paid, that Skimar's members have also taken a decision unanimously to restrict the powers of Mr Uroš Koržet, and that the Assembly, which took place at the premises of the Capital and Pension Society in September 2003, also adopted the following decision unanimously, namely that the parties consider this contract null and void and, at the same time, to ensure that no realisation of this Treaty would occur, they have also authorised Mr Jadk's special authorised lawyer to terminate this contract. Which means that the management contract for Elena d.d. it shall not be extended after 31.3.2004, but shall also be cancelled, i.e. until 26.9.2003. This also happened and a special officer, lawyer Srečko Jadek also cancelled the management contract of Elan and informed the shareholders by that date. According to information we have by the Slovenian Development Company in liquidation, negotiations between the owners of Skimar d.o.o. and Elan's management on all open issues at this time are still under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, you want to complete the answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary! I agree to receive this written answer, because of course the conclusions are also quite broad. In addition, I would like to ask you to prepare these answers so that I can have an answer to this statement by Uroš Aljančič last week, on Friday, at the Ljubljana Court, that he has repaid all the loans he has rented on the account of Elan. In fact, the Zevec Bank Association in Elan's booklet, where a deposit of 3 million and a half Austrian shillings was deposited, served as a guarantee for Alyančič's personal credit, raised the total amount together with interest of 4 million 26 thousand 358 Austrian shillings. This rise was due to the fact that Aljančič Uroš did not repay the annuity. Of course, it's just one of 29 allegations. Since he stated in court that this was repaid, please give a report on when, how much, and on which transaction account these loans were repaid. To make this easier, of course, I will also hand over this written material to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u189	I welcome all present. Parents and children complain that the subject in the Slovenian school is too extensive and the children are overburdened. At the same time, international comparisons show catastrophically poor results of Slovenians in assessing functional literacy. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: Why not reduce the number of weekly lessons in the last three years of a nine-year-old to the average comparable number of hours applicable to the European Union? In doing so, it is not necessary to reduce the number of hours for selected subjects only, since they should be considered as optional subjects of as much additional training and instruction as possible for students outside the school. Now the students are further burdened by this instruction or voluntary activity. Selections are specific only in that they are selected from the selection of students on the basis of their interests, abilities and wishes and that the combination between students is different. The final evaluations of these subjects shall be taken into account, as shall the assessments of all other subjects of the mandatory programme, in the overall final success of the pupils. Why is there no regression system in place in a nine-year-old who would also allow children from less wealthy families to eat regularly without public stigmatizing them as poor people? Why have you introduced numerical assessments for subjects of education, especially those where success is linked to the child’s physical abilities or special talents? Do you not realize that by assessing the success of physical education, art education, or music training, students may be prevented from enrolled in high school or other general schools? As you can hear from the profession, for example, for 5 in physical education should be a student, 12-year-old, top athlete in football, handball, basketball, not even talking about gymnastics. Does this mean that less talented children for sport are in no way able to make a school year with excellent or very good success? But if it's a disabled person, God forbid, he can't even make first grade primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Your Honor! If we want to agree with your proposal and make the number of hours our children spend in primary school, comparable to the average of the European Union, then the number of hours spent in school should be increased. This probably wasn't your intention, at least I don't believe this is the intention of your question. For all of us who are in this conversation, however, it is only necessary to say that the number of hours we spend in schools is summed up as what children themselves define as the time they need for their homework, among the lower ones in Europe and is in comparison to the European Union at all in the last third of the amount of time. So I have to say that we do not intend to do what you implicitly and probably unintentionally proposed, but it is good that we are all aware that when a school in Slovenia is good and gives a lot to children, of course it also takes time to process the substance, to process it by talking to the child and that it also results in values and not just dry facts. With regard to the regression of school meals, I can tell you that, on the basis of what this National Assembly has approved, 45% of the increase in children's diet in 2004 has already informed schools that they have increased resources and already have written in the Rules that these funds are also intended for lunches for children coming from socially weaker families, and usually once a week in the last triad they remain in school for eight hours. So you will most likely be satisfied that we have already settled your question in the future. With regard to the number of grades in primary school, however, I have made it available to you for a more detailed explanation because I think this would make sense because we do not evaluate subjects in schools as you presented them. Educational subjects are evaluated in schools in a relative way and measured in the last triad the progress of the child from the point at which that child begins entering the class to the point at which he is supposed to be after one year of instruction. That means no one expects a top athlete and doesn't demand that for an A in sports education, someone achieves a result, I don't know, 100 meters below 12 seconds, or something like that. The experts who proposed this system were aware of the questions you raised, which is why both art education, music education and sports education are assessed relatively. This system is being established in school and wants to achieve, for the first time, but such an education climate also wants to give those who are better at education courses an opportunity to show up and round the school up in a meaningful way. For further explanations I have always been available to you and some literature on this subject is available and we will be happy to deliver it to you if that is your will.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u193	Look, this proposal really came from my mouth. Otherwise, these are questions of parents and children in the environment where I live. I've been out of what my kids have done to an eight-year-old, so I don't say it from my own experience. I speak for the children and the parents, but nothing else. I'm going to pass it on to them, or I'm going to give them a scan, or maybe they're going to look at you, or they're going to think you're still a bad minister. I don't know. They'll decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! My question is addressed to Minister Jakob Preseknik, Minister of Transport. I'm going to put together a basic question and a sublime question. I also want him to give me a written answer. It is sad that Slovenia belongs to the tail of the countries of Europe in the provision of transport safety. It's sad that too many people die on our roads. The heavy blood tax we pay is a heavy burden on the national economy. That traffic safety has improved over the last period, he also argues that improvements in road safety cannot be expected only by training drivers, by improving the rolling stock, but that adequate road infrastructure must also be provided for this, this is an irrefutable fact. In our country, however, we have all too many forgotten road sections that do not meet the requirements of modern traffic. One such forgotten road sections from the point of view of road safety is the Trojane-Shempeter regional road, where nothing has been done to improve traffic safety on the road infrastructure itself, despite the promises we received decades ago when we discussed the course and way of building the Celj-Trojane motorway. We even have a substation where there's no passage for the sand on the entire 10 km. Moreover, I hope to say that it is completely inappropriate to take care of the most sensitive category in traffic. It's for school kids who cross the highway on their way to school. In view of the fact that I have previously announced a merger of the supplementary question, I would like to raise a question with the Minister. In particular, I would like to know exactly when the Ministry of Transport will arrange for the construction of suitable pedestrian crossings in the settlements of Broda, Čeplje, Prekopa, Kapla, Pondor, this is on the 10-kilometre section of the Vransko-Sentrupert Regional Road, which is particularly burdened by the increased traffic caused by the avoidance of toll payments. Here the situation with the construction of the highway has not significantly improved as regards the burden of this regional road. I hope to say that the situation is even worse at this point than before. The second question is, this road is in extremely poor condition, including the condition of the vehicle itself and all other elements of the road body. At the time of the construction of the motorway, 10 years ago, the Ministry of Transport made a clear and loud promise that the reconstruction of this regional road would follow the completion of the construction. That is why I also ask the Minister: When will this promise be fulfilled, and when will this regional road be adequately repaired? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Sušnik, I exceptionally allowed you, when there are no ministers, the additional question is whether you are not satisfied with the answer, cannot be asked and cannot be combined at both times. That's what I'm asking for in the future for correctness. Mr Branko Kelemina will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy a question. Here you go. Please, quiet, quiet. Please, calm down. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u197	Mr. Jakich wants to beat me up, I guess. Good. Okay. I'll be very calm and I'll speak slowly. There is no doubt that the national energy programme is a very important document, as it has been produced, according to some data we have available, for about 8 to 10 years. I think it's a very long time and we can only imagine how we built energy policy in this area if we didn't have the right documents. I now have a proposal for a national energy programme, but the professional and interested public find it so general and inadequacy that its implementation will not be monitored. Such an important document, as experts and the interested public say, as well as our secretariat or our legal and regulatory service - they find that we do not really need it. It is true that energy operators are mainly economic operators not financed from the state budget, but energy is so important for Slovenia that the country is necessarily responsible for the development of this area. Due to the uncertainty of the missing data, we will not know what we are actually accepting. Members of Parliament who have power, although they very much agree with such a flawed document and are very pleased that it will allow manipulation and bluffing, this is extremely appropriate for LDS Members, the United List and DeSUS. These Members who now hold power in their own hands are members of the LDS, the United List and DeSUS, and they would like to adopt an incomplete document so that they can, in my opinion, start populism, especially because they do not need to think much, because otherwise they are running out of time to read newspapers, write articles in Youth, etc. I'm asking you: Can you explain how valuable a national energy programme is in financial terms? Because this is extremely important, at least we are assessing both in the opposition and in person, that the national energy programme should be at least financially valued, so that companies, of course planning this development, may also know how much funding they will have to ensure in different ways that they will implement the national energy programme. If you can answer that question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Of course, I can answer that, Mr Member, because all these data were, of course, the basis for drawing up the national energy programme and are also publicly available. Effective use of energy and renewable energy sources, in particular heat supply, subsidies to households, the service sector and small and medium-sized enterprises, is expected to cost 6 billion tolars between 2004 and 2010. The source of funds is the state budget. We have identified this in particular in the national energy programme. Sources of how money from this title comes into the budget are excise duties on energy inpa energy, carbon tax and taxes. From this heading, the budget will reach between 15 billion and 16 billion tolars, with a total of 6 billion 970 coming out. Second. Resources to promote electricity production in qualified power plants - these are small cogenerations and power plants producing renewable energy - are expected to need an additional 10 billion 400 million tolars by 2010. The source of the resources for this is the addition to the network and the indirect addition to the price of electricity for consumers. It's all running and subsidizing. In improving the quality of supply and extension of energy networks, Eles and five electricity distribution companies plan the following investments or subsequent spending. The electricity transmission network is expected to cost 46 billion and 400 million tolars during this period, 26 billion electricity distribution network facilities. So in total, 72 billion 400 million tolars. The resources of public companies will be provided through the network or indirectly through the price of electricity to consumers. In natural gas, it is estimated that new gas pipelines and compressor stations will require 36 to 49.6 billion tolars during the period for which you are asking. The source of this is Geoplin resources, i.e. companies carrying out natural gas transfers, and are expected to be covered through the natural gas network tariff. For new facilities for electricity production, including buildings that are already in construction - and here the estimates are really very indicative - we estimate that the power plants potentially planned by the holding of Slovenian power plants will stand in the frame of reference during this period, these data are indeed indicative, 106 billion tolars. Other power plants in Slovenia, so past the Holginga of Slovenian power plants, could be very indicative of up to 60 billion tolars. And this together, if I make a very short recapitulation, means that the budget will go a little less than 7 billion dollars over the years 2004-2010 and 400 million dollars from the 132 billion tolar network and about 166 billion dollars from other sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u201	I thank you for this information, otherwise I would say: I don't know, I'm dealing with these things myself, and I'm looking for this data, from the media, from the Internet and from everywhere; I don't know why this information isn't in this information that we get along with the national energy programme. Then there are also some data, and I now find it difficult to compare them - those you said, I will re-examine them - with what I already have, because I have some data. But with regard to investments, if I recall, on electricity facilities - I have a significantly higher number to make it necessary to invest significantly more on this segment if we want to meet the needs of electricity, for example, if I am in electricity now, in the next 10 years. So now it's hard to "dispute" you and the data you've given at this time, but at least some, as I've remembered now, are inconsistent. I don't know why we can't get I understand that you can't tell me whether some electrical transformer is going to be built in some village - or some small object, so to speak, or whether this transformer is going to be restored - whether it's 200, 500 or 1000. [[...]] No, I'm not asking you to do this, but I'm asking for global data, where it's actually about whether we're going to invest with our investments, which the state must certainly make sure that they are carried out in some way in these public companies through its supervisory boards and other instruments, which it has at its disposal, so that these investments will be able to provide sufficient security for Slovenia to all energy providers. I don't know why it's so hard to give this data away, and I don't know exactly how many individual objects are expected to stand and put it in a table, and that it could then be both dynamics and finance, not only Members and the National Assembly, but also experts and interested public, and it could also be commented on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u203	The public funds we plan are no secret and accessible to everyone. As far as planning is concerned, how much will it take to invest in private electricity facilities, this is a thing that we cannot guarantee and can only be delivered in the form of some very harsh estimates. However, we intend to propose to the Infrastructure Committee that, in the form of an amendment, the relevant tables should also be included in the resolution on the national energy programme, in order to avoid any evidence that the resolution is not concrete enough to be monitored. As far as public funding is concerned, of course, concreteness is not a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Drobnic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, I will ask you a question about the functioning of student or youth services. The question has also been submitted in writing, I think, quite precisely, so that the questions relating to this matter are clearly raised. In fact, it is a matter of paying student work concession fees for special purposes, of course, for the operation of student organisations in Slovenia. Last year we adopted additional legislation or new legislation that imposes an additional concession fee of 2%. According to some data, a good part of money is lost somewhere, which is of course not good. Besides, the students are working, and the middlemen who do this deserve fat money at the expense of hard student work. That's a question, of course. In addition, as you know, we will face this problem because student work, way of working and accounting is not in line with European standards. That'll come to light as soon as possible. This has already been pointed out by labour inspectors, and the 2002 report warned the Committee. We want to know: How many student travels were issued in 2003? What was the total amount of payments made through student fees in 2003 and all invoiced revenue from the concession fee this year? How much revenue from concession fees did the student organisation receive in 2003? From the beginning of the law until 15.2.2004, how much money has been raised in the account of the student organisations of Slovenia? From the beginning of the law to the previous date, how much money has been raised into the fund - the one specifically designed? Who's the trustee? Is that being monitored? How much of the funds paid under the law by the employer for insurance in case of injury at work or occupational disease were allocated to the health insurance institution in 2003 and for what purposes were they spent?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you very much for that question. There is something, I would say, that the question has come up here, so I hope to be able to answer all your questions and some of the arguments that you have just added here. In fact, let me say that the method of work and the allocation of student services to so-called centres of youth has been in force since 1999. This is essentially defined by legislation, which is the law on employment and unemployment insurance, and in particular by the rules on student work as a sub-law on this basis. These are the legal bases. However, there is a special law for a two percent additional concession fee, which was adopted last year, so that in this case this 2%, in addition to 10% of the concession fee, is allocated to this fund, which was authorised under this law by the Ministry of Education, which is supposed to adopt a contract or sign a contract with the SHOS - Student Organisation of Slovenia. As we learned today, this has not been done yet, but the money, it's accounted for in a special account and these funds, I think it's just over 400 million. That's the first one. The second important thing is that we last year have changed the rules so that in our view we have achieved greater transparency in the allocation of these funds. In fact, if in the past the service has negotiated and signed a contract with a specific centre, it is bound by the new regulation to essentially indicate all service assets directly to the SOS account and then to the SOS, in accordance with the student constitution, allocates these funds to consumers. This ensures, I would say, greater transparency in one account and, in fact, the separation of these funds - it seems to me that a step forward has been taken here. Secondly, of course, it was necessary to even out the business conditions of the so-called student work as well as of the industry, as the representatives in this work like to say. Here, however, the following position was adopted, which was fully aligned with the two student organisations which, in the meantime, joined together into a single organisation of the SOS. Here it was that 50% of the recognised costs gradually applied to all student services, which was in some ways a requirement, in short to balance and, of course, to level the business conditions. Up to now, certain services had 70% and the largest 50%, which meant that this needed to be harmonised. And that was also the wish and demand of a student organization. Well, because of that, of course, it would mean that smaller services would probably have bigger - in order to be more, I would say, pressed against the wall, we have adopted a sort of four-year transitional period by 2007, when the gradually recognised costs are to be equal to all services at 50%. And this has also been fully accepted and coordinated with student organisations. Well, as far as the data is concerned, let me quote some data mainly from the final accounts in 2002, because I think that would be most appropriate. In this part of the Member's written question, you have asked that it restricts the work of smaller services. In fact, the changed and more transparent conditions increased the number of student services from 80 in 2001 to 87. In our view, this should increase competition between services in terms of better supply, in terms of faster supply and in terms of lower costs. In particular, some over one million passengers were issued in 2002 and the invoiced group’s concessionaire’s income was 6.4 billion. After the abolition of concession fees and recognised costs, student organisations were eligible for up to 2.3 billion and up to almost 40% [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the invoiced revenue of concessionaires. [[...]] In short, I tried, of course, to answer your questions raised and to follow up when this new rule was adopted last year and there were many questions about whether and how this will affect mainly small student services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Before giving an opportunity to respond further, honourable Members, allow me in our midst to extend a warm welcome to the Vice-President of the Slovak Government, Mr Pál Csaky, with the delegation. Hello! [[...]] [[Applause]] [[...]] You wish to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u209	Yes, Minister, I have asked you another question concerning the organisation of student services, the way in which students work with the European acquis. There are likely to be some concerns in terms of unfair competition. In this. And we're going to have to meet somewhere else, probably the Minister for Education and Sports. Functional illiteracy, studies last much longer than in comparative countries, perhaps because some students have to study hard to do. However, we must also ensure a decent student policy, which is not now, so that talented children can study so that they are not only rich and rich. Because our school isn't free, it's expensive, and it's all connected. So: What will you do to prevent us from meeting the problem when we officially enter the European Union? For some warnings have already been given.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u211	Thank you very much. If I may answer this additional question, which, of course, is very broad again, I would say by the indents. The first, which is very important, is your finding that, of course, the terms of the study will change in the direction of the so-called bologna process - three plus two. This, of course, needs to be prepared, so that the issue of efficiency of the study is likely to be more acute here and so on, of course, than it has been so far. Another time. On all such issues we have tried to find a common agreement with students within the student council. The student council is a consultative body of the government, so we have agreed on a special agreement on cooperation between the student organisation and the government, which will be signed on 27.2. This is the end of this week. Here are from all the areas you listed, and others, very precise commitments from both sides, what the government will do, what the student organisation will do to avoid questions, problems and so on, which can always be a challenge for us to find the answer in some way. However, as far as student work is concerned, we have defined student work as a legal category in the Labour Relations Act, and this law, as has been mentioned several times, is European law and is in line with European directives. Of course, all practical entities will find themselves in a situation where they can also acquire other jobs or, above all, I would say, what you have probably thought will also be interventions for the work of those organisations which also have a concession for the so-called general contract for the intervention of work. Among them are a number of student services, which are likely to take advantage of this. So here are some elements for this answer. I hope, at least in this principle, that I have satisfied you with these explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much. My colleague, Franci Rokavec, will now ask the Minister for the Information Society, Dr Paul Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow a minor apology for the slip that was made in the announcement of this question. However, as I was then informed by the Ministry of Finance, this issue was also adequately referred to the Ministry of Information Society, which is also addressed to the Minister. In fact, on 9 February we read the title in the Finance Journal: Mobile was doing business with its employees. Indeed, it is a matter of actually so-called interaction with influential people who have been or have been employed by Telekom or their subsidiaries, whose total annual value, at least these three contracts, is reportedly about 95 million tolars. Indeed, it is a question of the possibility of taking advantage of a special situation, for which persons in management functions have a significantly greater opportunity than anyone else. I will not comment in any more detail, but I would like to refer, perhaps with a point, one statement, which Mr. Golobič also provided in the Finance Journal, the Secretary-General of the LDS, who said, quote: "The pigeon is confident..." - the President of the Council, I apologize - "The pigeon is convinced that the fundamental values also include the fact that the important employees in the company do not have their own business, which is important in cooperation with this company, but if this happens, the President of the Board must know, take full responsibility and ensure the necessary transparency of business." In this context, a code of ethics was adopted at Mobile on 20 January. In fact, it states that employees and their immediate family members must not be suppliers or represent suppliers, work for them or be members of their administration, unless explicitly authorised by the company's management. I have here my own opinion that in cases where a member of the management team of the company has its own company and that it operates with the company, there is a great danger of potential exploitation for its own private purposes. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Did you know about these contracts as a department minister, or did you ask the Telecom administration to obtain information on the conclusion of so-called mutual agreements? Second: Did you, as a whole, take note of the conceptual contradictions between you and Mr Graška? And third: Are you going to initiate procedures for appropriate investigations in Telekom as regards the entries in the Finances magazine? Or if it's not a secret: What will these measures be? Now there is also a question that Mr. Minister will not be able to answer, but I ask myself: How come the Court of Auditors hasn't reviewed Telekom's business in all this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Minister of Information Society, Dr Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. First of all, what is the role of the government in relation to Telekom and the subsidiary of Mobilela? The government does not directly control Telekom, but through the supervisory board. Of course, as a subsidiary, Mobitel is controlled by the supervisory board set up by Telekom, who is the owner of Mobileel. So the government doesn't control it directly. However, I have read the Finances myself, and today I have read them again, and I find them to be, like Mr Member, that in two or three cases, the conclusion of contracts, in particular for the construction of base stations and the hiring of a business space, has occurred to conclude contracts between relatives of the employee at Mobile. Such a practice is not acceptable and must be rejected, and it has already been rejected by Mobile itself by adopting this ethical code. It also put all such possible contracts outside the rules that must be adhered to in the course of business. That's the first thing. The other thing is that it's understandable that in the construction of base stations are often in distress because it's hard to get a location and it's just trying to get a location where maybe someone wasn't hard to convince. However, both in the newspaper Finance and in the report of the Board of Control, Mobitel, it is obvious that these were indeed isolated cases. As regards the question whether I have actually informed or informed the government of the conceptual opposite views of the President of Telekom Grašku. Of course, I did not inform the government about these matters because this is absolutely unnecessary. I think it's my responsibility to run this department as a minister, and I think it's only within my jurisdiction. But if necessary, I explained things later. So much for that. I forgot to say that. Mobitel’s Supervisory Board has considered this, I have obtained a record and the Supervisory Board has found that there has not been any damage to Mobilele in relation to these contracts. Therefore, there has not been any conclusion of contracts that would in fact have caused financial harm to Mobil. Although, as I said, such types of contracts are not actually those in force in the business world and must also be prohibited by business ethics and code.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please choose a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u217	Thank you very much. On the contrary, Mr Minister, I believe that the first question you have asked is when you said that the government does not directly control Telekom, and the other answers when you said that there is really no need to inform the government of the conceptual contradictions that have been between you and the former director, Mr Graška, but you have already answered the first question - that as a department, you have direct control or influence over this state firm, which is a key company in the field of telecommunications. In this regard, I believe that we should actually know about these treaties, and above all, I ask you the following questions. What is your opinion regarding the conclusion of so-called mutual agreements among the employees of Telekom, who, of course, are in an influential position and who have been or have been in managerial positions in Telekom? In fact, I think the answer to this question is that we should also know clearly what the attitude is to the so-called appearance of mini-company. Above all, I believe that this is sensitive in state-owned companies, that there may be greater temptations and, above all, abuse that these companies can actually indirectly damage a state-owned company. And I want the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u219	Your Honor, you'll get it. For the first time, what kind of a minister would he be if he didn't take a stand or give an opinion on some important proposal, such as the reorganization of the Telekom Group. I think I would be a very bad minister and that I have to show and say, I have told the public a number of times and I have shown how I imagine the development of telecommunications and even information infrastructure, the information society in Slovenia. It's quite clear that I have to do this - who else can say it? And the second question is, what impact do I have on this? Is it really up to me to decide, instead of the supervisory council, whether the supervisory council can tell me, if I may say, "buy every idea I have" or not? That's another question. Of course, I will always make public what is our policy, the policy led by this government, in relation to these important issues. It is quite clear that from this point of view I cannot even manage Telekom, even less Mobile, and therefore I cannot know about all the contracts concluded in these companies - not by any means. And we don't need to know that, of course. Next I would like to say about the opinion of such treaties - I have already said it, for the first time clearly and loudly, and I will not repeat it. As for the small companies that are emerging, I would say that this is a general trend. Companies, especially in the telecommunications industry, want to exclude from their activities what is not so-called core activity, or in English "core activity". Among them are reasons for maintenance and similar things. This is not unusual and it is right that such matters are excluded because they are not a core activity, but the business with such companies must be transparent, clear and visible and there must be competition and the management must always provide clear accounts to the supervisory boards in relation to such contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. On the basis of an inappropriate reply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, I propose that, according to the Minister's response, the discussion be held in response to the next meeting of the National Assembly and that the State Assembly decide on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u222	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Rokavac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Information Society to his question, the State Assembly will decide at the next meeting in the framework of the vote. Mr Jože Tanko will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. Most of the municipalities in which the Roma community resides are also one that the state does not give them an increase in headquarters, and has been trying to resolve problems gradually in recent decades. Most of the Roma live in black, communal and proprietary unregulated locations and also in black-built buildings. Despite major problems, however, a small part of the Roma managed to avoid an impossible situation, to work, to build houses, and to get housing, and to set up a decent life. However, much of the remaining Roma community still has the biggest problems with the enforcement and application of social standards and standards. This is particularly felt by citizens who are forced to interact with individual larger or smaller unregulated groups of the Roma population. A small part of the blame for the problems can also be attributed to municipalities and the weak and patient majority population, but the main part of the burden certainly falls on the individual authorities and institutions of the country and this part of the Roma, which makes abundant use of national generosity and flexibility. In recent times, relations between the work of the Roma population and the majority of the population have become extremely acute in some areas, which are simply no longer sustainable in particular treatments and statuses enjoyed by Roma. There are many threats, there are extremely strong thefts, drug and arms trafficking, extortion, unregistered vehicles, uncontrolled migration and property displacement, new agricultural land movements and could still be listed, but government authorities, although they are usually timely and properly informed, do not generally act in the way that is customary for ordinary citizens. I want to know: Why do the State authorities not disclose and act in accordance with the law or act in a double manner to the work of the Roma population? Why are the most problematic members of the Roma community given special treatment by the state authorities? And what do you intend to do in the future to eliminate these obvious and extremely disturbing shortcomings for the majority of the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u225	Thank you very much for this question, Mr Tanko, but at the outset, I must conclude that the State authorities, perhaps you have in mind the police or detection authorities, perhaps even persecution, do not have any specific instructions or guidelines on Roma, nor general policy or attitude towards them. Moreover, to the Roma or to groups of any other nationality, it would be directly discriminatory, contrary to fundamental human rights, as well as to our constitutional principles on equality before the law, if you act in the way you say you are facing it in practice. Moreover, we do not have any specific policy towards the Roma in the idea of collecting data on crime caused by them, as you state, it is a typical crime in the area of property offences, land rights, threats and the like. We do not run any statistics on what crime is, nor how many crimes or offences against public order are committed by Roma. It means no special relationship. These are the people who are burdening our community with all the problems that are unfortunately due to their unadaptability to co-existence. Of course, the environment in which people live perceive this. The fact is that more sensitive than elsewhere their neighbours perceive and also feel the crime they face, but you yourself say that many of them have already fully accepted the standards of human behaviour and life and society must - of course not with aggression and with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but in all other areas, strive not to do so. I repeat and conclude: no specific policy towards Roma as regards the security risks posed by their conduct, but a fully equal attitude towards them as against any perpetrator of a crime or a violator of public order and peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u227	Thank you. See, the fact is that these differences in the conduct of the organs, whether they are bodies in your composition or also inspections and other authorities responsible for this - this environment is perceived. The fact is that not long ago there were protests in the vicinity of the New City and there the citizens said publicly that the treatment of the State authorities towards Roma was different from that of other citizens. To drive many Roma in unregistered vehicles, to cause accidents and not report them to citizens, because this in fact avoids all the inconveniences and problems they would otherwise have, that there are many problems among primary school youth, including blackmail and the like. However, the fact is that because public authorities do not act and tolerate this, they also give in to the will of citizens to even trigger these problems in front of the institutions. Therefore, statistics, which in some ways could also be run, are very empty, are not recorded events, and in some ways also distort the actual situation. However, the fact is that these things that I'm talking about have been publicly triggered, that you've certainly been informed about them, because the police also had to act and intervene, and I'm curious: Why do such things happen? If people say that to the camera, then something's true because otherwise they expose themselves. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] other problems? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u229	What I have said is the rule of Slovenian law and also the rule of law of European countries and also of other civilized countries - in principle equal treatment before the law. Of course, this is not only a violation of this principle in specific relationships, and it is therefore necessary to deal with such issues individually, individually and wherever infringements occur. We are prepared, as the Ministry of the Interior, to respond to any announcement or communication that there has been positive or negative discrimination against Roma in the individual case, as regards the procedures led by the state authorities. I will also deal with the problem that has arisen as a result of the recent meeting of the countrymen in protest against the behaviour of the Roma, I intend to visit the responsible people of this place and try to see what we can do within our powers. However, I would like to point out that our responsibility as far as the police is concerned is to manage security risks and perhaps to resolve procedures in the event of an infringement by administrative authorities. We will certainly shake these two in a separate case, and the system's regulation remains the way it is, and the rule remains the way it is. It is important to strive for such excesses, such irregularities as little as possible, and it is good for people to talk about it in a normal way, perhaps without too much expressive ways of demonstrating it. I think it's better that we convince things than that there are such excesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport will ask Mr Aloise Sok a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It's a question for Mr. Gabra. Many of the principals and teachers at the time had commented on the rules on the rights and duties of pupils in primary schools and the school rules in secondary school in 1996. Together, they noted that the rules on the rights and duties of pupils bring disorder, non-discipline, anarchy and excessive to primary schools, could be said in pronunciations, 'democracy'. In many schools, the Ministry, therefore, has provided you with a large number of comments, particularly regarding the definition of worse and easier infringements and the procedure for the imposition of educational measures. Unfortunately, all these suggestions came across a deaf ear. Today, the Ministry’s representatives are surprised that directors and teachers do not deepen and propose changes if they think they are necessary. So at least I understood on the radio Fireplace, which was on January 12th this year. What's the situation in our little hotel-equipped schools, we all know. But we all know how it insisted on education and not education in the preparation of the new school legislation. Against the will of the teachers, and you don't ask us anything, you've canceled your grade on school behavior. The result is that there are no clear rules of conduct in our schools. Anarchy and the inability to control students is greater from day to day. We all know, except for the appearance of the most responsible, Mr Minister, that rights are also followed by duties and that the school must also be brought up. It seems that your system of Slovenian schools has begun to collapse slowly, as so far quiet teachers have also started to say publicly that there is something very wrong in our school about order and discipline. They began to talk about this in public, despite the fact that officials are appointed by a minister and must therefore remain silent if they want to remain principals. The Ministry also decides on the progress of teachers. It's started. Teachers are mass calling for order and discipline to be introduced into our schools. A public initiative is being organised for the school according to the measure of the person involved in the main parent. It is becoming increasingly clear that, in cooperation with parents, the area of education needs to be re-organized, and in schools the social values of truth, honesty, respect should be restored if we are to prepare the young generation for life. And the question is, I'm not gonna take another two minutes. By what time will you, Mr. Minister, insist on your decisions, on your rules and so directly and indirectly participate in a school that does not reflect democratic changes in time, and in particular underemphasizes education in our schools? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u233	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member! In schools in Slovenia, we are doing our best to create the young generation together with families into a generation of truthful, honest people and people who respect others and also have a sense of solidarity in the space they live in. Of course, when we try to be patient and to have a normal dialogue between different thinkers, we face all the obstacles that society is trying to overcome in doing so. For the school does not go beyond that which surrounds it. It is not bypassed either by a tendency, inaccuracies, knowingly misleading statement, because we have heard some of these from you here today. I know you're planting them on purpose. I know you're not really interested in school. I also understand why you're saying things, like the ones you've now managed to read, like the ones you've written here. In fact, you know that this school after public opinion polls - such as - is rated as very good or well over 80% of the people in this country. You know this school raises people's values and that's what bothers you. It bothers you because you cannot exercise your own partial belief, your own partying. And that is why you will probably be famous, high-level, democratic school, about a school of human measure, with calls for riots in schools in Slovenia to continue. I can't do much against doing this. You know that there is, of course, a school order in schools, that school order needs to know how to maintain, you probably don't need to read a rule that describes bans on the whole side and worse violations, but that's not really what you're talking about. But I would ask you, if possible, and everyone else to meet the political stop at the school gates, because the fate of this country is too dependent on whether we will maintain inner peace in schools, or whether we will be able to solve those problems that we have there, and we will not be able to see the excessive standard that you have implicitly seen here. Because our children deserve it because they teach it, in order to do the work that we as parents never do in order to do it. If we want these children to form at least a little distance from our fights, then we can show these kind of discourses to enter school. Therefore, it does not indicate to the principal that he should share these, such, different and third. I had to ask you this morning because you wrote down in my question statements that I hope you know who to argue with, if not, then I would be ashamed to have them written down because they are written in your question - what about the clientship of the directors at your end, why are you disturbed? The answers I have received show me that you must have a seventh reason for these kind of claims that are flat, and it would be significantly better not to say them. Slovenian school is good if there were as many good intentions related to Slovenian school as good at Slovenian school, even in your claims, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, you continued earlier because you said you would not want a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President. I understood the interim warning as final, and then it came out that I still have 30 minutes of time, so I [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u236	30 minutes, I'm sure you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u237	30 seconds, that's me. However, this response by Mr Gabra is, of course, to be answered because I did not expect such an answer. First time. I don't care about school. That's what he thinks. He thinks that no one who has children in school is interested in this school, and that's how you act as a minister. What I wrote down, I can tell you with names and surnames, I didn't want this here, but what I wrote is true. However, the names could be given to you and the truth is that these directors are mainly members of your party and that they are also extremely politically involved locally. That the situation in our schools is not as it should be that our school becomes a place where teachers do not control students, where it is necessary to employ security guards, that they can control order and discipline, that students know more about what their rights are, but not what their duties are, of course I have never done it, was never a minister; but I am one of the parents of children who see how these things happen in schools and how this situation does not go any further. The fact that teachers are advertised and alerted in the media, of course, is well known to all who read these media and who can detect this pulse. It is also true that you appoint principals and that the Ministry decides on the advancement of teachers and that in such situations of course [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Those who have something to say must be quiet if they want to keep their place. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Look, dear colleague Sok. I do not appoint principals, and if you are already discussing these issues, it would be appropriate for you to at least learn about them. But if you are taught and deliberately deceive, then there is an even more accurate word for this deception. I expect you to apologize for deceiving people. Although I believe it will be difficult because you're not used to being able to apologize for what you're saying wrong. No, it's not a wordplay, and the principals in this country call them holy schools. In this country, principals get practically automatic, and that's what people tell me - the Minister's consent. Only when more than half of the people in the Chambers are against them do they get no consent or when the procedure has been mismanaged. That's the first statement I've made that doesn't hold. Do not hide behind that you can tell me that, as you wrote: "As a rule, at least directors must also be properly supervised, the best members of your LDS. At least that's the way it is in Ormož." It's a secret, and it's not worth upstanding people if that's what a man says and he can't prove it. I expect you to apologize to them if you're mistaken. It does not claim that our rule is written in such a way that it does not contain duties. I don't know if you've read it, but you'll believe me, I know the rules. Let me try to refresh your memory. The serious violations are: occasional unwarranted absences of more than 12 hours or joint unjustified absences over 18 hours, the use of pyrotechnic equipment in school, the blackmail of other students or school workers, the intentional damage and destruction of school equipment, the repair and registration of assessments, the place of ownership of the school and others, and so on, in kind, Mr Sok. The problem for all people is also when we discuss the need to be disciplined and that it is necessary to explain clearly the rules at school first and then to follow them clearly. This school has a problem with it, but no more, with certainty, no more than society, no more than any of us. Trueness cannot be just something we impose on others, it is our duty first. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will ask the Minister of Justice the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that again. Mr. Secretary, all due respect. In Slovenia, so to speak, corruption is present at every step, which is now clear to everyone: both to the politicians, to the public and to the EU institutions today. Thus, citizens remind us every day of the presence of corruption both in government, in the judiciary and in state-owned companies - in short, wherever state money is present. We note that there are probably thousands of people in Slovenia who are actively involved in corruption, and this also shows that they are extremely rich because they cannot be acquired with the normal work of such wealth. You too, Minister, I know you are working very hard to eliminate corruption in Slovenia. You put a lot of effort into this segment and you spend or use a lot of government money for these purposes. It is employed that I do not say almost the entire army of experts who are fighting this battle, and success is probably visible. Corruption will probably soon be crushed as soon as possible. I'm saying, probably. I ask you whether corruption - according to all the forecasts and also the documents adopted - will be crushed as soon as possible in the country as possible. I ask you for specific information on the effectiveness of the system over the last period: How many people involved in corruption were convicted in 2003? If you can answer that question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u243	Good-bye. Now in a slightly late hour before the bitter end. You say there's corruption everywhere, and how everyone's turning to you, and they're citing cases. I would point out here that everyone in this country is obliged to report such cases if he finds out about specific cases. I'm saying this, not because of any cynical attitude towards it, but simply because we're not just talking about it, but because everyone in their place is doing what's possible. Secondly, as regards our ministry, which, of course, is not the most correct addressee for this issue, at least as regards the detection of this phenomenon, I must say that there are no strong armies with us. The Ministry of Justice comprises 108 people, perhaps 110 people, in its narrower part. It's not like it's some big army. If you thought maybe all of justice, of course, that's another story. Just one more note before I tell you the information I have in front of me. There is no single crime of corruption in the current criminal code, but its various forms are sanctioned in seven so-called corruption crimes in three different chapters. Of course, there is also a number of indications that there is corruption in the service or in the handling of certain other offences, particularly in the case of two under Article 44 of the Criminal Code, that is, the abuse of the situation or rights and Article 261, that is, the abuse of an official position or of an official right. This is because in 2003, the police, of course, have filed 54 criminal charges for corruption offences in the strictest sense of the word. The year before, there were 51 complaints like this. However, given these two specific crimes, which are very often linked to corrupt forms, namely paragraphs 244 and 261, all criminal charges in the last year were 322, the year before and 299 in 2002. With the statistics of the 2003 legal judgments, this is a statistical survey carried out by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and data for the previous year will be available in a good month. Then we can complete this written reply with this fresh data for 2003. That's how much I can actually answer this question right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your answer. Yes, surely different institutions or segments of your field are also responsible for this area. Of course, I ask whether the criminal code in this area may not be effective enough to prevent certain elements of these crimes from being identified in the criminal code. If that's the case, I'd like you to give me an additional answer. Otherwise, I think that now in Slovenia they have the power of political parties and are now in power, if I am not mistaken of LDS, the United List and DeSUS. And these political parties and their members have been allowing the rise of corruption all these years, they have done nothing but, of course, benevolently, as well as the use of large funds for these purposes. However, it is also my view that Members from these political structures are guilty. I would ask you: Do you think that such major corruption in Slovenia is also the responsibility of LDS, the United List and DeSUS? Are the members of these ruling parties responsible for the rise of corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u247	Well, we would be dealing here with one of the extremely large issues that we have dealt with in this assembly not so long ago when we passed a law on the prevention of corruption. We would, of course, start by asking whether this widespread corruption is indeed true. The answer to the opening part of the anti-corruption bill was that, according to all the studies, this corruption is not only so widespread and that we are still in a decent place compared to other countries, that it is not to underestimate this phenomenon, I say in the same breath. Another point was that people are polling that there is a lot of corruption in this country, but that personal experience is not cited in the same surveys. This path would have gone a long way if it had been reopened. You asked if it would be appropriate to change anything else in the penal code. The proposal to amend and supplement the penal code which is already under consideration in this house and will be held by the committee responsible in the next 14 days, I think, also brings some additions to those articles which speak of these so-called corruption crimes. It is precisely those additions that, according to our assessment and the Government's assessment, are needed to deal with such crimes in a more effective manner. We've installed everything where we've estimated that there's a deficit that you mentioned. Then, I am sure, there will also be an opportunity to assess together whether these changes, which have actually occurred, are almost sufficient or not to all these corruption articles. The response from our side is also in this area, and I think this will also serve as a basis for a more successful confrontation. At the same time, let me mention that the National Assembly will soon be able to discuss the anti-corruption strategy. Undoubtedly, such intensive treatment of this subject will be able to further highlight those areas that are most sensitive and those that will need to be tackled more intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of the Information Society the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of the Information Society. The event in the administration of Telekom and Siola has been very public during the last days, although there have been frequent exchanges in Telekom, with the ruling party replacing the first man for the third time. It appears that this time it is a political game, because it is not possible that a different strategy, staffing and organisation, which is to be managed by the management concerned, which, hand to heart, brings good results, would be the reason for the replacement. It is not irrelevant, however, that the former Director of Telekom is under contract for 24 months of retirement, which according to some figures amounts to 30 million. How much of the pension belongs to the former director of Siol is unknown. Otherwise, as he himself said, he leaves without a tolar of retirement. I have taken note of the question raised by my colleague Jerovska, Minister Marble, whether it is true that one of the important reasons for Mr Graška's replacement is that he has reportedly drastically reduced his sponsorship funds and, within this context, indirectly more than 100 million to finance the LDS electoral campaign. Dear Mr. Secretary! I know you've answered these or other questions several times before, but I would like a good answer: Why has the state, as the majority owner, both Telekom and Siola, replaced the administration, which has great credit for the success of these two companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u251	Madam Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Zupanov. You wanted a good answer and you'll get it. I'm sure. However, some things need to be clarified in the context. Some have already been told, some have not. First of all, I would mention that, like elsewhere in the world, it turns out that the path of liberalisation of the telecommunications market is more, I would say, a conflict-based challenge, as it seems, and especially the way of adapting the leading operator to the new modern market situation, which is being liberalised. I would like to tell you first that we consulted the Supervisory Board when we formed the first administration after the transformation of Telekom into a share society. We wanted to bring to this administration people who have experience with the market who are able to fight on the market and who have no fear of the market and market issues in telecommunications. We did not fully succeed in this, but some of the younger, recognized professionals at home, home managers and Europe, Slovenians, were not ready to leave their jobs at the time and, say, come to Telekom for members of the administration or important functions. That is why we have drawn up the formula three plus two, three professional members of the administration and two non-professional members of the administration, who are the directors of the subsidiaries Mobitela and Siola. This formula was not permanent, it was never thought of as permanent, it was meant as temporary and also as a kind of strengthening of synergy, because there was a lot of talk at the time about breaking up Telekom, which I always opposed. At the same time, this formula had one serious weakness. One of the non-professional members of the administration, director Siola, was also responsible for the technique in Telekom. This has always caused discomfort and criticism between other internet providers and, of course, other players in the telecommunications market. The criticism came from the EU, of course. It was really unhygienic. A member of the board, as Director of Siola, did business with himself while also laying down conditions for dealing with Telekom for his competitors on the market. Such an incestous relationship had to be terminated. When we received the personnel that Telekom could additionally prepare to strengthen, we made a replacement to put two new people instead of removing non-professional members of the administration. The Supervisory Board never wanted to replace the President of the Administration, but only to withdraw two non-professionals and give two new younger and qualified men to the administration. This is where it started to get complicated. One was accepted, and the other was conditional on the President of the Board of Directors not to be called. The Supervisory Board stopped the horses, if I may say so, we said, don't rush anywhere, let's stop the ball, let's keep the four-member board going and we'll try to figure out who this fifth member of the board would be. However, the Governing Council did not have that time. The President of the Board of Directors has made a move and delegated to the Commissioners of Mr Kramberger a number of functions, such as the business area of service, regulations, pricing policies, operator services and the subsidiary of Mobiltel. They re-emphasized the condition we wanted to prevent, that is, this unhygiene. After all, however, the Supervisory Board has concluded a management contract for the management of Telekom with the former President of the Management Board, Mr Graška, but not with the Ombudsman. The focus continued with Mr Grašek proposing, at a meeting of the administration of Telekom Slovenije, the immediate accession of Siola to Telekom without any laboratory. I objected for already known reasons, which I have explained many times, so I will not do so now because of my lack of time. It must also be said that the rumours that this would amount to 5 billion more are unrealistic. These would only be if we developed two separate platforms of telephony, which I have always opposed, and I have suggested that this develops in Telekom. However, this does not necessarily mean that we should join Siol in order to do so. If I respond to your suggestions about the election campaign, of course it's a complete hint, a false one. These state-owned companies must not do this or do not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda, please. Complementary response. Mr. Secretary, just a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. Please allow an additional question. When can investors expect the return of telecommunications inputs? Do we not indirectly move away from the referendum decision to reimburse natural persons for the funds they have invested in the development of the telephone?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I am happy to answer this last question. No, no, no. The collection of applications is now under way, and this will be completed within four months. The cartridges will be reimbursed after the partial privatisation of Telekom has been completed and will, of course, start after 1995. I have already mentioned several times that this also means that we are also expecting an improvement in the market situation. At the same time, I would like to say whether this was a political change. I don't think that was a political change. In particular, I believe that Mr Janša has offered a good definition of political exchange for the last time. That is, political change is if politicians or political bodies change, say, the government in an economic society replaces an economist with a policy because of coalition issues. This is a typical political exchange, and as such it was also recognized. There is no political exchange if the supervisory board of a company where there is no politician or civil servant discusses the future development of society and, due to some disagreement, more or less important, replaces one professional manager with another professional manager. In particular, if a journalist, editor at Del says that this manager appears to be a racial telecommunications and information technology expert who, prior to his arrival in Telekom at a table offering high-tech companies from Great Britain, France, the United States, has excellent media skills, is a principled man, a first-class manager, is more restrained in character, can listen, learn about technology, so none of the suppliers can drive him thirsty over water. In short, rather than being accused of political change, I and the President of the Supervisory Council may have to admit that after a good three years of talking, negotiating, we brought this expert to Slovenia and Telekom, to Telekom's administration, that we convinced and killed an expert who could otherwise be lost in the world that he would work for a Slovenian company. That's not what I call political change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u256	Thank you very much. And also the last question put by Dr. Andrej Bajuk to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, Mr. Secretary! Let's just make it easy that this is the last question and that we can all go home. Mr. Secretary! I had a duty, on an official basis, to analyse and read the exact report of all ministries, including the Ministry of Justice on the final account for 2002. This has not yet been the subject of a broader debate. The government, the Minister of Finance, still needs to correct certain errors because we have found them this way, and the discrepancies between the explanations and the aggregate tables. But I do not want to talk about this matter with you tonight, but I would like to focus on just one part of your report, on page 8, in which you explain the situation and the development of the implementation of the law on denationalisation. We know that at the end of 1991 and at the end of 2002 68.6% of all requirements have actually been met, based on the DE2 record, which you know more than any other. You also report that at the end of 2002, the government adopted a decision requiring the administrative authorities to prepare, at a legal and second stage, a proposal for a time frame after the quarter to complete the denationalisation process. My question, Mr Minister, is: if this decision of the Government was true during 2003, if you actually have this information, have these reports actually been implemented? How did the Ministry of Justice monitor them? Can you report this to us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u259	Your Honor! Indeed, the Ministry of Justice has been working since the second half of 2001 to coordinate the implementation of denationalisation. If I start with some general numbers. By the end of 2000, 61% of all denationalisation cases had been legally completed and 86% had been completed at the end of last year. However, this indicates certain movements, without which I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with this state. On the contrary, the decision of the government, which imposed on the administrative units and also the ministries which decide at the first stage on denationalisation in order to draw up a plan for the completion of denationalisation after the quarter, was of origin - it was adopted in 2002 - from the assessment that it is necessary to bring things to an end. At that time, the chiefs of the administrative units themselves planned the dynamics of the conclusion, of course according to the resources they had at their disposal. And so is the Ministry. The Ministry of Justice shall monitor this data quarterly. As you have probably seen from this report, we cannot be fully satisfied with the implementation of this plan, which the responsible officials have set themselves. After the quarter, the planned realization, so the scale of the realization, in fact, fell because there was a communication of backlog for the plans, so that percentage fell to half of what they expected. So we have, in a round of words, that I wouldn't be looking for numbers very precisely, instead of about 1,500 pending cases now, there are still about 3,000 pending cases. At the same time, no administrative unit has fully completed the implementation of denationalisation, so that, of course, not all cases which have not yet been completed are in administrative units. That's what you have to say. All cases which are either at the hearing or at one of the courts shall be handled as unlawful. However, before the new year, the Sévnica administrative unit reported that at least once it had decided on all matters, that it had seven other illegal cases, which were under appeal at one stage or another. The Ministry, in monitoring this, did not just count the numbers and determine where we were, took a few steps, mostly in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the functioning of administrative units. If I add up a few last ones, we have been trying, above all, to achieve that those administrative units that have more or less completed denationalisation or have some spare capacity would be able to help those who are still heavily burdened. This has also worked in the case of a number of administrative units. Thus, for example, Kranj helped Ljubljana, the Armenian administrative unit was greatly assisted by Slovenska Bistrica. I mean, there's been more cases like this. On the other hand, we have sought to eliminate all the complications arising in relation to the decision-making administrators to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which is committed in the case of substitute land, to the state defence which settles in these cases, in some way has been approved. We also solved the complications in relation to the Slovenian Compensation Society and with various activities, and quite a number of such irregularities. At the same time, we have also endeavoured to reach a settlement in cases where the State is committed in order, therefore, to give as soon as possible a country where there are no grounds for refusal of return in nature or where other circumstances may arise where a settlement can be concluded in order to achieve this settlement [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u261	I'm sorry, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. You spoke as if there might be something else in this report. I didn't find this in this final account report. However, I would like to ask you if it is possible for the Ministry of Justice to send all this data of these quarterly reports to the National Assembly. Obviously, we must acknowledge that there is much going on in this area, but we would like to be informed of concrete measures, what is still missing and when this chapter will be completed in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u263	I am aware that the Ministry is 29 January this year, wait, here is the 2003 date, but I think it was 2004 error, to the title: The Commission of the National Committee for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance has sent a few pages of the report with extensive tables. Since this has been practically intended for you, even though it has been addressed to the committee, if this has not occurred to you, I need to investigate where this is stuck. The purpose was to provide this, and I was also prepared to do so today because I assumed that you would come up with additional questions on the basis of this. What I have referred to is what is known, I have referred to, as we have written in the case of further clarification, precisely to address what your committee is considering in this regard. If that doesn't work out, we'll send it to you again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Minister, thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item or interrupt it, because we are still voting tomorrow. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you all again and good night.
