ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Andrej Fabjan, Franz Kangler, Janez Kramberger, Yuri Malovr, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Villa Trophynik and Jaša Zlobec Lukič. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. That's what I wrote here. [[...]] As it is, it is. By the way, let me say that the President of the National Assembly has warned me to follow the rules of procedure; I have taken note of this. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the 2004 AGREEMENT ON THE ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL PLAN The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation. The representatives are not here right now. So that we don't waste time, we'll move on, and then we'll listen to the government representative later if he wants a word. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee as the parent working body. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, is expected to present the report of the Committee and I do not see it either. On behalf of the committee, Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment discussed the proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2004 and listened particularly closely to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the legislative and legal service, a representative of the National Council Commission for Local Self-Government and regional development representatives of the Association for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia also participated. The most important points that could be seen in the legislative and legal service report are the following: however, there is a need to pay a little more attention to the fact that the amendment of the company law for motorways has taken place, since the present act no longer presents the tasks of road and toll management and maintenance as a source of means for the construction and maintenance of motorways, but is taken into account in the work on concessions and represents a surplus over the costs of managing and maintaining these roads. The service also found that it was unclear how to deal with the issue of renewal financing, both in terms of the entity and in terms of the definition of resources. On the basis of Article 3b and Article 3d of the Law governing the operation of the company for motorways, the definition is slightly different, just as it was before. It would therefore be important for this annual programme to define the amount more precisely in order to put aside some concerns about the detailed monitoring of the use of resources to be allocated to concessions for the maintenance and management of the motorway network. The Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also draws attention in particular to the issue of the construction of additional toll stations and the trend towards a parallel road network and thus the destruction of this part of the state road network. This is also one of the segments that we have addressed several times on the Committee on the Construction of Motorways, and it appears that this is still a very topical problem. Otherwise, the Infrastructure Committee held a debate on the proposed annual development plan and also considered that the alarming increase in lending on the fact that fewer funds are being collected from the petrol toll and, of course, it also allocates less resources, which are the highest quality, to direct investments. However, it is a satisfactory solution to the fact that the dynamics of the construction of motorways in 2004 are appropriate. In spite of the relatively late adoption of this document, the Committee adopted a decision agreeing to the 2004 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, and also proposing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agree to the 2004 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways of 29.3.2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Presentations of parliamentary groups follow. Mr. Kebrich, please, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues and those who listen in the offices to what is going on in Parliament, say good-bye to everyone. In our parliamentary group, we have examined in more detail the material available to us, both the opinion of the legislative and legal service and the Committee's opinion or report, and in particular the proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of highways for 2004. This time, we must admit that the composers have worked hard and have written quite extensively this programme, which the government is giving consent to, and should also be given to us as a national assembly, but let me just put it this way. Whether we accept it or not, nothing will change. Essentially, I will not be humiliated to mention that saying: dogs bark, caravans go on, but I will say this beautifully modernly, for us to be worthy of being able to look at the matter in such a critical, constructive way, and we suggest that the matter will follow the momentum of experience so far. In particular, we have a lot of comments and questions, as each chapter ends in as many as five cases with a note: depending on the good weather; and one even: from the financial resources. If I say paraphrased, in a parable, there are many beautiful flowers planted, but they say in advance that they would blossom only under conditions, I will not say time, but in our case, if there are no circumstances that are already discussed and admonished as excuses. The treasury of the excuses for realisation is so rich that they can name them as much as they want. For example, depending on the time, depending on local communities, whether they decide on a particular option, whether they decide and agree on a particular route or will continue to argue and, of course, give the possibility that this plan or this assumption will not be implemented. If we move forward, we see that they speak and exceptionally write such and other anniversaries, but there are no more detailed deadlines defined, except when they speak and write, how many kilometres, specifically, 65.7 kilometers of motorways, will be put on the market in this year, plus 4.4 kilometers of connections. If we add a total of 17.8 kilometers of four lanes and the fact that there are still 10.7 kilometers of fast roads and 5.9 kilometers of curbs, it is written in many ways: by the end of the year. The predecessor has already said nicely in the report of the Infrastructure Committee that it is particularly important that this programme was presented on 25.3. So, at the end of the first quarter, only three quarters remain to be realized, and we now accept this in the second half of May - is it to say, what are we left with? They have not done so much to add to today's session a specific report, which has been foreseen and actually realised in the first four and a half months or the first four months since 2004. The chapter on funding is particularly interesting. I'm not going to say that proverb that can be a joke at the grave of a great statesman: oh, how do you owe us? We, too, owe those successors who will come after the autumn elections to this Parliament and will tell us how much we owe them, how many billions or millions of dollars - or now more of the next euro - we owe them to make this happen. For if we do not get that amount from the Cohesion Fund, it is only envisaged that we will again be able to accept and confirm in our mandate in this national assembly the guarantees for such and other amounts that will be necessary in order for this plan to be implemented. Since my fellow Members have the will and will to contribute, forgive me if they are a little less or less critical than I am of myself, to this proposal for an annual development plan, as I have done with my own experience from the previous mandate period when I was a member of the Infrastructure Committee. I repeat: whether we vote in favour or we vote against, it doesn't matter at all, the matter will go as far as it has gone. But it is true that they have tried to write a little more extensive things down, to define sections, to state certain amounts, and to protect themselves in advance if these amounts are exceeded, they will have enough excuses. Thank you to those of you who listened to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everyone. The annual road development plan is also very late this year, with considerable delay, and it would be more expected to adopt a rebalancing of the annual plan than the annual plan itself. The fact is that this country has major organisational difficulties in preparing and adopting in time the professional and legal basis for the implementation of the vast majority of programmes. It happens very often that everything happens late, after inertia and after the choice of performers, then we make and legalize all these previous decisions somewhere in the middle of the year. This way of working cannot be exactly a model of the rule of law, especially since the process and the "time" of accepting documents is quite precise and, of course, without any difficulty, calculate the deadlines that are necessary, to adopt and confirm a programme in a timely manner. And even in this case, there is this kind of inconsistencies. The fact is that this year is also an electoral year, and this is also reflected in this work programme, where significant increases in opening activities are envisaged. If this plan is expected to be implemented, the maximum amount or total length of motorways will be opened throughout the period of construction of the motorway programme. It must be acknowledged that the implementation of this programme would be a very great success for the contractor and also for the country of Ideal 70 kilometres of new motorways, especially given that we have built significantly less than 20 to 40 kilometres in previous years. It should also be welcomed that most of these sections will be built in the area of Dolenjska, which is economically very dynamic, which will compensate at least a little for the unreasonable delays of past years, with some influential political February being very clearly involved. However, it must also be said that new sections will also significantly increase the flow and safety of Slovenian roads in order to remove some bottlenecks. As I have already mentioned, these projects have been piloted during the electoral year, to demonstrate the activities and achievements of the government in the last year, but the problem is that not all these major achievements will be achieved by the tourist season, as many will happen too late, probably only in the summer's end, and all these things will be fully exploited only in the coming season. The annual plan is, as I said, quite extensive, quite strong, very strong next year and also next year - it is also seen from this programme - and will be quite modest. It is clear that there will be no significant political revenue in these years. As far as the financing of the petrol programme is concerned, it is extremely problematic, in our view, that for a number of years the petrol toll has been excluded from the programme and that these free allocations, half of which have been collected, are earmarked for other programmes and purposes, and not for what is its original purpose. And the fact is that an increasing proportion of these free allocations, collected by the citizens we pay when we buy fuels, are being replaced by much more expensive domestic and foreign loans. To a far lesser extent, this is compensated by foreign non-refundable resources from European funds. These European funds would, however, be much more useful in eliminating credits, but as most in this House have already decided, they are replaced mainly by free or earmarked funds. It is also becoming evident that no programme will be implemented for the return of the effluent of petrol toll to the programme, in accordance with the national programme adopted, which means that one of the main sources will fall out of the national programme, namely the gas toll. In my view, it is unacceptable for the government and the ruling coalition to propose and adopt solutions that are clear that they will not be possible to realize and serve pain only to create a fog, to increase mistrust, to stress irresponsibility and also to manifest obvious non-criticism towards citizens and the country. Therefore, consideration should be given to the rebalancing of the national programme, which we adopted a few months ago, three months ago, particularly in the area of resources and the financial design of the programme. For it is obvious that this will not be the one envisaged if the implementation and completion of the work are already carried out under the programme. It is clear, however, that the new Dars loan law no longer burdens public debt, that Dars' debt is off-balance sheet and that the audit or supervision of Darsa’s business will be very difficult for the Court of Auditors. So far, it has been avoided, perhaps with new leadership there will be no greater oversight desire and courage to do so. We certainly consider that this is extremely unwise, that the implementation of the largest national, largest national programme is not subject to institutional supervision, that is, the supervision of the Court of Auditors, and that there is no plural, professional and political control. Everything is going on in a closed circle, and this is also evidence that there is still some clientelism in this country, including political clientelism; however, the consequences, as we know, are happening and everything is being done that they are not visible. The fact is, we have a lot of comments pending surveillance on Dars. The fact is also that, at the hearing, a representative of a government party at Odessa said two, three months ago that he was thinking about preparing a change in the law that would ensure a different, better control over Darsa's work, just as he had already been, but after these three months nothing has happened. It is totally unacceptable that a company that has annual traffic there, about 100, 120 billion, operates completely without professional supervision and, we can say, independent control. It is also clear in this programme that the costs foreseen for an engineer of 3.2 billion or 3% are not accurately shown. The fact is that these costs are probably much higher, but the number 3% has been recorded for the public in the programme. The fact is that, on the basis of the new Dars Act, where the company merged, two contracts, one on the operation of engineering, are on the implementation of the construction and maintenance of the programme, and the other on the management of this motorway programme. However, the law does not define the costs of engineering anywhere and does not define the recognised costs of management. In view of the fact that this is an extremely large project, it would make sense for all of these to be determined when we have failed to define them in the law, so that the first annual programme we now have before us, at least the national assembly will be informed of this information in an explanatory memorandum. But the fact is, this National Assembly on what's going on in Dars after the change doesn't know a damn thing. We don't know how much fees there are for agent services, how much fees Dars can charge to rent credits, how much to pay off credits, how much he can keep from tolls and so on, how much a normal return is recognised. In short, all of Darsa's financial business after this new law is completely hidden - in short, everything is also going on, I can say, in a very closed and very small circle. And there's no way we can talk about any transparency here. In particular, this type of work is extremely appropriate and suitable for a variety of manipulations and interpretations in this field. In our view, it would also be useful to process slightly more closely the prices of the motorway programme, as well as the impressions which are necessary and necessary to monitor it. The fact is that it is necessary to operate on the right data somehow, I think it is right for the national assembly or us who accept these programmes to tell us what changes have been made due to inflation caused by the change in routes due to increased or additional works. We should also say what is the result of speculation and what is the result of deception, what is the result of different financial structures and so on. In short, I think that every year we should report these things very carefully to the National Assembly, and so we learn from this annual programme everything, except that someone would describe some negligence, or that something has arisen as a result of poor supervision, or, say, some other actions. It is extremely strange that nothing has been found in all these years in such a large project, which grabs around 6-7% of the state budget each year. And we're also wondering if everything is really going as brilliant as it can get from this public. I think something should also be done in the area of toll stations. Now, partly the toll stations are the consequences of an extremely dispersed approach to the construction of motorways. In this area, it is likely that certain rationalisations could be carried out and made. And especially those toll stations that are of a transitional nature would be able to build a substantial, substantially cheaper, but not to build as if they would be there forever. Toll stations are also one of the main problems with transit, for every 20, 30 kilometres there is a stagnation and, in fact, because of this number of toll stations, the impact of motorways is significantly reduced. Moreover, for a large part of Slovenia, the basic highway programme is also very important, as it is the one that builds up this highway programme and also allows a large part of Slovenia to join this balanced transport development and even regional development. For poor transport links are also one key condition that regions and areas do not develop and that the population is also displaced from these areas. I think that these programmes, or this part of them, should be processed in very good quality and planned in good time in the years ahead. The fact is that there is almost no activity envisaged in this supplementary part of the programme. However, we know that if we are to start a timely organisation of the supplementary programme, certain activities should also be processed and planned and implemented in previous years. That's the way this business is supposed to go. In our parliamentary group, we will support this programme, but we expect the National Assembly to obtain as soon as possible all the information we do not know anything about. This is mainly related to the reorganisation or structural programmes or changes in Dars, as well as to this supplementary programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the United Nations Group will be presented by Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you for saying that again. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we find that Slovenia has an extremely important strategic position, which proves, last but not least, the crossing of important European transport corridors, particularly the fifth and the tenth. It is important to know that we are also trying to establish our role in Europe by building an effective highway network. Not only for the successful integration of Slovenia into developed European countries, but also for the sake of coherent regional development within the country itself, of course, the motorway programme is extremely important. We also believe that it is the construction of a highway network that is one of the largest regional projects in our country. Of course, we would also like to follow the programme of other state roads, so that there would not be any further potential differences between those areas which would be directly and through which the motorway cross takes place and there would be no differences between others, where these options would not be possible, and a programme for the development of other state roads should be developed as soon as possible. This would truly achieve the desired goal, which we are often talking about, even through the laws on regional development and similar orientations. However, very concrete solutions can also be achieved through the effective development of these laws, especially the highway network and other state roads - i.e. by building other state roads. We would like and somehow all the time in the construction of motorways, we advocate solutions that must be provided as much quality as possible, these are petrol tolls and tolls. Of course, through the history of the construction of motorways, it can be found that the gas toll is not always allocated at the level envisaged, either earlier in the national programme or now in the resolution on the national highway construction programme, but the construction dynamics themselves are relatively manageable. Both lending of loans and unfavourable financial resources is not excessive and does not go beyond manageable frameworks. We are also pleased that it has joined the search for new resources to speed up the construction of the highway network, especially in securities, which are a more successful and better solution than lending. We therefore believe that the continuation of the construction of motorways will also be a good basis for construction in the coming years, on the basis of the programme to be adopted for 2004. For this year, we would also like to express our satisfaction that this programme states that work is being done in the framework of investment renewals that require the closure of sections of motorways, so that these works will be carried out outside the season in which the greatest burden is on motorways, and thus, of course, we will address some problems and dissatisfaction of both domestic and foreign road users on our motorways. This will also, we believe, contribute to the more friendly image of Slovenia when integrated into all international flows, which are reflected mainly in the summers in the tourist offer. Of course, this cannot be achieved mainly at bridge facilities. But if we really look at it, they have to continue throughout the whole season, regardless of the fact that we want to have as many freeways as possible. However, many times the weather conditions also condition the fact that some work needs to be done mainly during the summer months, because it is the most efficient and even the works are the most quality done. We are also pleased with the fact that we are aware that older motorway sections need to be updated, as they are also mainly about improving safety on our motorway sections, which have been somewhat prolonged since their long-standing construction and have possibly less built-in equipment that would satisfy or meet the conditions for safe transport. And this is also one of the segments that are important in this annual programme. Of course, when we look at the sources themselves and at the dynamics of construction, these resources also deviate slightly from the vision I presented in the introduction. In fact, we note that the 2004 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways provides for the implementation of the programme of 65 million 941 thousand dollars in respect of the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, which is a good and important fact. However, on the source side, we find that there are mainly more resources from concession fees, 20% and almost 21% are more from credits and less from funds, and about 18% are provided through securities. Thus, this dynamic of resources does not follow our wishes, if I may say so, but it is important that in terms of spending resources, 9.6% more motorways built and 11.4% more roads built under the highway programme. Of course, when the highway is being rebuilt, there is clearly less funding and it appears that this was the compromise where to obtain additional resources to accelerate the construction of motorways, but a few less resources are then earmarked for renewal. Of course, we expect that this will have no major impact on transport safety in the long term, and therefore we also support an annual road development and renewal plan in 2004 of 122 billion 337 million 363 thousand dollars, because in fact it is a reflection of the dynamics that are possible, mainly because more documentation is prepared for the construction of motorways than was possible at the beginning. We believe that this is also a good basis for the faster development of motorways in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u10	Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and Members. The proposal for the 2004 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Highways is certainly an opportunity for the National Assembly to become familiar with the plan in this area and I must say that we are slowly making progress. Last year we adopted this proposal on 14 July, this year two months earlier. Of course, it would be logical if the National Assembly had this function to influence this annual programme, what it would be like to adopt it before the start of the year, but if we move slowly after two months of progress, then, of course, for two or three years, we can count on such a programme to be adopted within or before the start of the year. Last year, on this occasion, most of us talked about the need for a rebalancing of the national highway construction programme. This year, of course, this need is gone, the balance has been accepted. However, I hope and wish that this National Assembly in this composition will adopt a programme for the construction of other roads before the completion of its work, as the debate on the rebalancing was set up in this direction and the conclusions of the Infrastructure Committee were adopted that the Ministry must submit a programme for the construction of other motorways or other fast roads. It is thus possible today to talk more about how to finance, how to manage the programme from a financial point of view, the financial resources available to the country, or how, according to the new Dars, when the legislation has been amended, it is possible for the State to be in charge of the guarantee itself. In 2003, it is said, last year, that we spent 116.4 billion tolars for the purpose of building highways, which was then 34% more than in 2002. So this year is not about this big increase compared to last year, it is about 5% and 122.4 billion. 91.1 billion were spent on construction alone in 2003, and 93.3 billion tolars were proposed this year. In 2003, it could be concluded that this was the farthest and most demanding annual programme compared to other years, and for this reason it will also be dedicated to the purpose of 47 kilometers of new motorway sections, which we have opened in some way 20 kilometers in the previous years. Perhaps the damage and here, as an opposition Member, could also say that they are not every year of elections, then surely the desired goal of building highways in this country would be sooner than we will be. So I'm afraid that after the elections, construction in highway works will stop. What is worrying and what I would like to present on behalf of the New Slovenia Group is the following. For 2003, 32% of all-purpose revenues, according to the gas toll, were for the construction of motorways. I have calculated these percentages for this year and will be able to be corrected by a government representative if they are not precise. The 2004 programme, however, is made up of earmarked resources, according to a gas toll, which is planned for only 25%. This means that this part of the petrol tolar is still decreasing and that the country does not actually use this intended source for what was adopted by law but also for other purposes. If the government's plan to obtain 6.4 billion from the cohesion funds of the European Union were to be implemented, this dedicated source of highway construction would rise to 30%, which is still less than it was in 2003. Interestingly, the toll, which was 22% in 2003, was only 11% in 2004. So, I think that we should talk about this and that the government representatives should tell us why. However, loans from international financial institutions amounting to 26% in 2003 increased to 42% in 2004. However, if we add some more than 6 billion domestic credits and the planned issue of 13.4 billion bonds - if of course this issue of bonds occurs, because the government itself says that if the loans are more favourable than the issue of bonds, then this part of 13.4 billion will be replaced by loans - then of course we can conclude that the share of credits in the financial programme is well over 50%. Of course, it is clear that all these loans will have to be repaid, and already in Darsa’s current debt repayment plan, the interest is almost 2 billion higher than the principal’s. It is also interesting that the cost of toll collection was also shown in last year's Rapporteur when we discussed the plan for the highway construction programme. Of the 25 billion $350 million collected, about 4.8 billion is the cost, or 19 percent. I did not find this data in this paper this year, and of course it would be very good to publish it, because I am sure and also in the Group of Members, we think that the programme this year, as far as the plan is concerned, is much more transparent than it was last year. But I could be even more transparent. Slovenia is a small country, we all know more or less all these sections of the road and it would somehow be easier to monitor the programme if the proposer even more precisely defined what he actually thinks to do on certain sections. I'm just going to be able to talk about one thing as a matter of more local interest. When you are talking about further acquisition of project documentation on the road Slovenska Bistrica-Ormož, I would really like to know in which parts, which areas, or also Ptuj, which is the most problematic on this route. Because only through one and only bridge on Ptuj is around 40,000 cars a day and, of course, is for Ptuj himself and then the areas that are less connected, the big question is when will actually come to the realization of the Ptuj bypass; for if anything happened on this bridge, the whole traffic in both directions would also stop. As far as the program is concerned. A few questions and a dilemma that arises when we accept this, however, I would certainly like to point out. One of these is that traffic in Slovenia is growing rapidly in recent years and that, if we are possibly already late in some part, it is still necessary to consider how to proceed, and bridge facilities, viaducts, can be built like this - at least in the vicinity of cities, where possible - so that the third belt can be upgraded in the near future. So if you're driving along Europe's highways today, you'll see that there's a lot of old viaducts and highways spreading to tri-passes or even in larger cities, in Germany they're actually building one complete freeway with them. So that's where they're facing traffic rising. What concerns this growing traffic is, of course, that we still do not have a transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia that would go in this direction to limit the growing traffic on Slovenian highways, if not for another reason, because we have committed ourselves to respect or implement the Kyoto Protocol and we ourselves know that transport contributes about 25% to the production of greenhouse gases. It is also wrong to say nothing about railways in this country. We are always talking in this National Assembly about transport policy in connection with the construction of motorways and other fast roads, but we are not talking about rail transport. And the consequence of this is probably the fact that it is somehow said that the fifth corridor has redirected itself towards Austria, not Hungary, as it is written in all our documents. Traveling, which some have already mentioned before me, is certainly a major problem. It is difficult for me to imagine that in some developed country, we could agree to a toll system like this. Because we have such a toll system, tolls are also extremely expensive. We have one of the highest, I'm sure, tolls in Europe. You have countries that do not have tolls, we have countries that have tolls, but have resolved these matters in a significantly different way. It seems to me that Slovenia, or it will have to land and start tolling in a modern European comparable way. We have already repeatedly stressed that the government should consider the introduction of vineyards, as is the case in Austria - no, but with us we are always building new and new toll stations and thus spend a lot of money collected with tolls back on the construction and maintenance of these toll systems and also on the payment of the work involved. Here are other effects of those who collect tolls. Imagine the environment in terms of microclimate conditions that these people working at these toll stations are exposed to. It would also be interesting to hear an analysis once from this point of view of what this means for health care or for the cost of treatment. The rationality of construction was also highlighted by some in front of me. On page 63 of the Rapporteur’s report, we are pleased to see that the cost of construction of some sections has been reduced as a result of the calls for proposals. That's very good. Of course, on the other hand, without explanation, the costs of some other sections also increased. So the case settled. Many sections have therefore become less than planned, but the issue of control remains. Before me, already fellow Member Tanko has this issue, so I would not like to repeat it. It was also pointed out on the Infrastructure Committee that the Law on Dars and the Supervisory Committee should be amended as proposed at the time with the amendment in the National Assembly; today, the National Assembly in the Supervisory Committee does not have its own representative. We always repeat unfinished sections through the work plan. On page 59 of the Rapporteur, these unfinished sections are mentioned. I think that once this should be completed, these sections should be completed because, in this way, if every year, on these unfinished motorway sections, which some have already been built in 1994, some additional regulation and some additional investment, of course, this represents great costs and reduces funds for other purposes. Finally, if I am not too long, I would like to point out once again the possibility of concession building. This has been repeated throughout New Slovenia. This is also enshrined in the coalition contract of the current ruling coalition; unfortunately, this has never happened. We are convinced that at least one highway section could still be possible, this is Slivnica-Gruškovje, where we have built a modern international border crossing so that this part can be built with a non-profit concession show. The government has always replied that this is not possible, but so far it has never with the right arguments answered why this would not be possible. If at least this section were to be built in the envisaged concessional manner, then we are convinced that by 2003 the programme in the national programme could also actually be implemented, it would reduce the need to rent domestic and foreign loans. As regards the programme itself in New Slovenia, we will support this programme with the hope that the government will consider these comments, which we have presented here, regarding the growing indebtedness and the question of how this country will actually repay these loans, and that it will consider in this regard some of the proposals that we have put forward here for this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Bozič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, everyone have a good day and, of course, also those who listen to us today at the gallery. We are discussing the proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of highways for 2004, EPA 1230-III. Nice program. When I listen to criticism of the construction of motorways in Slovenia or listen to them, I always remember what would have happened in Slovenia if the highway had not been built. What if there were black 1973 forecasts that we had only 40 years of oil in the world? But that didn't happen! We're building a highway! The Slovenian People's Party constantly supports it and we will also support this proposal, and thank God, the oil crisis has not happened. But it is true that, decades ago, the heads of politicians in Slovenia were flying when they first started talking about the highway cross. Let's just remember this a little bit. The critics of every piece have always been, and they will be. The realisation we have today in highways is always the result of what happened in this hall. My colleagues and colleagues, how many times have we changed the highway program in the last 12 years? It's been changed all the time! Remember a month ago, when you requested it and it was introduced into the national programme a whole bunch of connections to the highway that was supposed to be built after 2012. And don't sigh today that you can't do that much! If we build highways for 122 billion Slovenian tolars this year and open 70 kilometers of new motorways, we will continue to build 34 kilometers new and start building 18 kilometers of new roads, we must not be afraid, nor should we be ashamed. But I would like to say a few comments, which, normally, everyone also has in the construction of highways. I'd like to talk about the tolls first. Eight years in this hall, I've been talking about this, and nothing's changed. The mountain shook, the mouse was not born; not even electronic, but ordinary. We miss this program when we have electronic traffic control. Anyone who benefits from the highway should pay for the use or use of it, but no one needs to pay for it. And why can't we solve this? Secondly, the Ministry of Transport and Dars will have to start thinking about what part of the cost or share of the money they will collect with the tolls will be given to preserve nature; we do not want to talk about it for 12 years. I think that the data was previously used that by highway, we can be for the highway, but I think traffic in Slovenia adds 65% of all air pollution. 65%! Last year we signed in Athens to reduce air emissions by 8%. How do we reduce them? When we join the highways to Italy - okay, Hungary and Croatia - we will be hit by a wave of traffic from northern Italy, France, Portugal to Central or Eastern Europe, no less, there will be more traffic! And today we are building too narrow roads, and the tri-passengers will soon no longer be quite wide. This will need to be discussed in the next revision of the national programme and, of course, what is also true, it will also be necessary to talk about the game, because highways are too much to live in nature and wildlings can no longer move freely, which is also harmful for our nature. Of course, we must not speak too loud about this, because as soon as Slovenia grows, no country in Europe is. And if we are second in forestry in Europe, we can no longer blame anyone, but we are all to blame. I would also like to say that, for the first time in the use of highway construction funds, the development plan and the renewal of motorways for a year for 2004 is, in particular, not to mention two billion, which we will also give to the construction and maintenance of state roads along the highway. We've been doing this for decades, but we've deleted it from the program. If we spent an average of two billion on state roads along highways in ten years, we spent two budgets on state roads for this purpose. Two budgets! What about the ones that I come from Tolminsky, who we'll never have a highway, and we weren't getting that? But we support the construction of the highway. I would like to say two more things that may not be in the current phase, but still; on the highway built over Barje v Vrhnika, often, almost every year we have prisons and is being restored. If the Romans couldn't make it through Barja, why did we make it? And boasting about all kinds of technologies about how stable this is going to be, but today we see that it really isn't. No, at least he can't handle that kind of traffic, and he'll never be. The other thing I would like to mention in the end is the issue of the loans that our country is using to build motorways. We have written that we will build or use this year to build part of the highway in the Vipavska Valley Credit Autovia Veneto 3 billion 548 million216 thousand, but this loan has been available to us for more than ten years. We should use it. The first desire to build the highway was Vileze-Nova Gorica-Ljubljana, indeed through Col in 1968. And today the road is not finished, even though Italy has already made available money to Autovia Veneto for the construction of this part of the highway. I've already said from the beginning, any work can be criticized and commended. I have to commend the highway myself, I also commend all those who plan and build, we will support it, or we will support this proposal for construction this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. One last presentation of the Group's position. Mr Jože Ašić, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I'll be right here because I'm going to be brief because I don't intend to repeat those open questions that the predecessors have already pointed out, but especially because we've actually talked a lot about motorways this year, about the development of motorways, and we've recently adopted the rebalance of the national highway construction programme, which, of course, also comes out of this year's programme. There is also probably a reason to consider and adopt an annual programme for the construction and maintenance of motorways for this year only in May, because it must be based on an adopted national document, and this document has been adopted recently, although we have had it in the diabolical assembly since July or August of last year. Surely this annual programme is slightly different from what we have been trained to date, which is, of course, also the reason that we have not so far passed the new Dars Act, which lays down a slightly different function and tasks of this company, and this, of course, also stems from some of the comments that you or individuals have observed in this national programme. In particular, there is a major change in the fact that much of the tolls are included in the financial part of the provision of the necessary funds for the construction of the programme, because tolls are no longer the primary source of construction, but represent as part of - tolls - only in the part that represents the difference between the cost of managing and maintaining motorways, the source of funding for new sections of roads, but we have adopted this by law and we must also accept this as a fact. There is, of course, always a comment in our parliamentary group about tolls, tolls and tolls. I think it really has to finally come to a long-term vision and a way of collecting the tolls in such a way that we have a single system so that we do not have a mixed closed and open system so that we have an updated electronic way. In short, we expect that this problem, which we are constantly exposing in all the parliamentary groups, will be resolved once and for all. Anyway, this year's program is busy. It is true that many kilometres will end and there will be a great opening, but it must also be said that all these openings that follow in this year’s programme will result from last year or the year of the programme adopted. So it's not a programme this year that would be aimed at a particular year called the electoral year, but those projects that we started a year or two ago will be completed this year. And in this year, almost 70 kilometers of four - lane highways will be completed, including connections; I believe that there will be some 18 km of new roads being started, and that the next year’s program will continue for a number of miles of paved roads, I think, some 34, 35 kilometers. Well, in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the programme. Of course, we expect that it will also be successful in the expected framework over the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Kebrich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would add three things to the preliminary implementation on behalf of the Group of Members in short. We are surprised by Chapter 1.1.3.4, which speaks of the need to complete the final and additional work. This chapter deals specifically with those roads and motorways whose sections were placed on the market before 1994. It is now ten years and more, but we are still finishing, even though the location permits at the time prescribed what needs to be done. It's anti-group protection and something else, including some kind of signalling. We understand, however, that many have changed with regard to regulations, such as axle loads and so on. It is also an important item under 1.3.5, final works for those sections which were placed on the market after 1994. Those earlier and also now some are almost ten years old and are particularly questionable for citizens, on the other hand, we could say that in ten years certain things were not known or wanted, for such or other reasons - justifiable, because I had earlier said how rich the treasurer was an excuse - but unfortunately in this treasure house there was not what Members would expect me as Members of Parliament, that would also be a defined subjective responsibility and that it would be obvious who was responsible for something then, if I said - in another word - "kisss" or did not execute responsibility. Of course we won't find this in the future either. The second question when citizens ask us how we are so often restoring certain sections; whether the work has been done less qualitatively, where the guarantee is here and so on. Nowhere in this programme is there any indication of what will be paid, otherwise as the item is foreseen - but on whose account? Is the contractor, if any, less qualitatively executed than after the bidding, determined or obtained under these conditions? In short, the following points have already been mentioned by the speakers. After so many years and so many criticisms, a person would expect to be able to resolve the issue of toll stations definitively. In Europe, we see that the neighbours, even in Germany, who so far had free motorways, are now reintroducing a certain planned payment, and they are considering how they would do it in the simplest and most economical way that would least burden: for the first time, traffic as such, because toll stations are the main roadblocks. Since Dars, last year, last year, they've been promised to study, think about it. You would expect them to come to a certain conclusion in all their thinking, and I expected that in this annual development plan, even what kind of word would there be if there was no line on this, when are we going to solve this problem in the simplest, economical way? I recall the words of Minister Presecnik, what he said, how they studied through satellites to have such or other ways, and the neighbours simply introduced vignettes in the short term, and those who only drive for one day or a few days have that possibility, and others for a whole year, even if they drive only twice as a foreigner, but pay what they had foreseen their journey for a certain time. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We have heard a lot today, and we are likely to be talking about how many highways we would need and how few are needed, and who is neglected, which region is neglected. In doing so, there is a very specific problem, which has already been mentioned today, this is to collect the toll. In this short time, I would like to draw attention only to a particular issue or, as it is said, also to the compensation for the use of motorways. The system that we have at this point, or what came from this system that we had well-managed, is saying that this is some kind of open system that came from a closed system, has helped at this point to say that the system is no longer. I don't think what we have works well, works well, just the basic principle that we're building this system, it's born. In fact, collecting compensation for the use of motorways. By the way, what's going on? There is avoiding toll payments, which this system - which I say is no longer a system - makes it easy and even forces users, if possible, to avoid. Let's see! For example, in Styria we have these famous frontal toll stations in Pesnica, Slovenian Konjica, Tepanj, Vranska and then Blagovica towards Krtina and Ljubljana-west. This means that we have these frontal toll stations from 10 to 40 kilometers apart, one very together, and one is a little bit more distant. This means that at all these front toll stations, if you take a good 100 km from the border to Ljubljana, you have to stop four times - four times. What does that mean? It's irrational, and it's harmful. It's harmful for two reasons. I can tell you an example that I know well because I live there, that is the connection or front toll station in Tepanj near Slovenian Horses. You know this is where the main traffic comes from the north and east. Every vehicle must be stopped first. You know that the latest brake linings are also harmful to the environment. Not to mention the old ones with which trucks are still equipped from the east, where it's still directly asbestos. How much of that dust is in the air! The next time you pay the toll and then the gas and move on, it's acceleration. How many unnecessary emissions of fuel, exhaust gas, appear 20 meters ahead again! Thus, we have two harmful impacts on the environment, in addition to stopping and congestion and congestion. The other thing is. Trucks arriving from the east, by Hungary, by Slovenska Bistrica, as soon as they arrive on the highway, on the next connection they exit and on the old road to Slovenski Konjice, where they go to the highway where there is a smaller toll, or they drive directly towards Celje. That's why I said that the toll collection system doesn't work - because you can avoid it and someone who uses the highway can only use a part of it, but when you have to pay the toll, they avoid highways and go down the first connection and don't pay. In addition, we have built highways to have less traffic on local roads, to get some compensation for this and to increase the flow of this traffic. Now it's not like we're avoiding toll payments. And the next point to be made here is the unequal position of the users of the motorway. The fact is, in places near the toll station, those natives have to pay for everything, every mile of highway use, and just the case. In Slovenian Konjice it is necessary to pay the use of the highway, it is said to be toll, for five kilometres to the next connection in Dramalja, or to the next one in Slovenia Bistrica towards the north, where it is 10 kilometers, or to Vransko, where it is about 50 kilometers. It's the same use. But the one who comes to the Dramlje connection and drives 40 kilometers towards Vransk doesn't pay for anything. That is to say, there is no logic here and we are in an unequal position, and also the money for the toll is lost. And that means that the money is less, and those who pay the tolls have to pay more because the tolls are more expensive. That's logic, because it can't be otherwise. And that puts our system in some strange position, which we have now introduced so that you can avoid paying the toll and, as I mentioned, that is contrary to the purpose of building the highways. To get as much traffic as possible to the highways and to make the flow bigger. That there is something wrong with this, that I have asked at least 20 questions in the last six years in this regard - I will not comment on this. But the fact that something's wrong is also proving that we're building an entry-exit toll station with Krtina, as far as I know. I think that toll station will be that toll station because it's the biggest exit problem on Krtina, because there's a toll station a few kilometers further, and then it comes in because we avoid Blagovica -- I think there's a toll station there. And that now the entry-exit station is being built, which is part of the closed system. That's what we say, contrary to what we've done! This section was opened, I think two, three years ago. So, we figured out for ourselves that something was wrong. This is said to be an approach, that the solution will be systemic, that it will not be played and that it will be fair - if I can even use this term - or more just to pay those who use motorways. I think it would be time for us to settle this, because the damage we're doing with this is huge. And I think that in the next programme that we're going to have, there's more to say about it, and it's even better if we solve this problem at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. In the strategy itself or resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, we have foreseen a medium-term plan for the development and maintenance of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways. This year is somehow the first since we only adopted the resolution, and we can probably also understand that that first period, defined as Plan A in the resolution, is probably also the basis for some kind of medium-term plan in the three, four years that follow, and that this is also the basis for adopting a post-annual programme for 2004, which allows for derogations from the resolution in some percentages and a maximum of 10% of their total estimated investment value. And I find this year's program, I'll say, in these contexts. However, it would probably be very important to think that we also have medium-term plans ready as soon as possible, so it is even easier to monitor and monitor the implementation of the annual plans, and not least these annual plans can then be adopted faster and there will be no delays in the treatment or we will not discuss the annual programmes there in the middle of the year, but we will be able to do so probably because of better data this much earlier. A lot of controversy is usually due to these annual programmes, because, however, there is a significant lack of transport policy itself and when we find that we also do not have properly resolved line transport, that there are big issues, when and how the other state roads, the rank of these roads, will be built, and, finally, the adoption of the spatial strategy, which is in the process, is much more difficult because we do not have these strategic documents, but they are crucial for how Slovenia will continue to develop further. I believe that all procedures should be really accelerated in order to get to these key documents as soon as possible, so that the adoption of these annual acts would be easier, better and more transparent in the future. I would point out, however, this fact that we are facing in this annual programme. Indeed, the fact is that this year is also the first year after we changed the status of this company through the Dars Act and decided on a concession contract for the management and maintenance of motorways under this law. However, it is likely that the resources of this annual programme are somewhat under-defined. In particular, it is very important to know how much of the tolls are spent on management tasks, how much should then be devoted to maintenance of motorways. For the difference between these sources is then only a source of tolls, which is intended for the construction of new highway sections. And a more detailed presentation of these funds, as set out in this annual programme, is possible in the concession contract for the management and maintenance of motorways. Perhaps the weakness of this document is that we do not have enough information, how much resources, how much resources within this document are there to manage. In particular, since the process of broadcasting works relating to the renewal and acquisition of equipment is also linked to the signature of the contract and should be defined as an integral part of the development and renewal of motorways as well as very specific sections. Therefore, this document does not address this sufficiently precisely, and I believe that in the coming years the annual programme should be dealt with in detail or also define this part, and this document can therefore be much better than it can be in this first year following these important legislative changes in this area. Well, and with these comments, I would also like to conclude my thinking, further reflection on this annual development plan and the renewal of the 2004 motorway, which, in spite of all that I have already mentioned on behalf of the Group of Members, is acceptable mainly because it has allocated more resources in a global way this year to build itself, as we have foreseen in the resolution, and this is certainly good.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! I was also involved with this material that we received from the rapporteurs. More or less things are said. I'd only stop at things that I don't quite understand. For example, it says that 1.85 billion are ready for projects. And that's all it's written -- what projects, a little analysis in five, six lines should be written. Because just like that, $2 billion that you don't even know where they're going is simply unacceptable. I'm not saying it's wrong, because it probably is, but it bothers me. Also, for the purchase of land of 9.25 billion tolars, let's say we could write where this money will be used, for which it cuts and so on. I also need to link the construction of the Rebernics to this right away. Last year there were some things in which the surrounding population reacted. Then things sort of settled down, the route moved and so on. There's a very, very hot case, I'd say, because through Podnanos you drive, you know that, I think what everybody, is going through primary school, only one walk pass is you settlement and there's a road from the school wall, I think three meters and nothing more and it's very dangerous. And that's why the locals reacted so much that things were stalling. We know that the department is very demanding technically, geologically and so on. They're aware of that, too, but I got the feeling that the state was slightly ignoring them, and I also tried to calm down, and I'm not sure that's the case, but that's how it feels. At that time, it was said that he would go to the invitation to tender for this remaining section, 4.7 kilometers [4.7 km], because the upper part of the invitation to tender is being made immediately after the new year. Now from this material, I don't even know if the project documentation has even begun to work. This material is simply not clear to me, but if we look at the Internet, it is even more blurry. That way it could be like some kind of question, but I'm disturbed by things like this. Now that I don't have too much criticism, I'd like to stop at the chapter on toll stations that we've already talked about today. And I'm going to talk again about the toll station, whose terrain I know well, because I live on that end - Vogrsko. I've heard that studies have been done, how this will pay off, and I don't know what else. And look, it's now paid toll 350 tolars from Vipava to Vrtojbe and it's a toll station Black in Vrtojba. And of course people speculate a little bit, I'll use that word not to go to the last station, in Vogreska they go down. And now, of course, the idea is, if a toll station is made in Vogrska, it won't be. Of course it won't, but it will be the second - and it will go down in the village. And now, whatever you do or don't do, it won't make much difference. For example, if the toll station in Vogreska is made, and the investment is 840 million, because there is a house to pay off, but I don't know what else, and the 840 million to get at the expense of the toll station in Vogreska, that's an illusion, because you have to wait at least ten years to pay it off, you'll find out maybe on the day I know what, five hundred cars, calculate if it's 500 cars difference that it takes 20 years to wait for that money to be brought through that facility. And at the same time, we're talking about a technique that's going to solve everything, it's going to go electronically, and I don't know what else. And if this is going to be an electronic countdown in a few years, in five, six years, it's completely absurd to even think about it. Look, Mr. President is no longer in the Ministry, I've been talking to him, he said, because we're thinking anyway that those toll stations wouldn't work. I've been told that more in private. But if that's where you're thinking, I think you're thinking well. And if that's the case, let me delete it. I don't know what it's like after all these other toll stations that are already doing or doing, I don't know. Only this one is specific, and the country will have only damage with this toll station. Really. Then I'm curious because I don't have much time, one more thing. Because in no programs, all the years since I've been here, and even before, is there any idea that the Upper House would have any connection, with any centre? Let it be Nova Gorica because it is closest - at least to Nova Gorica, but not to talk about Ljubljana! Bovec-Ljubljana, for example. Will this be a tunnel to Kranjska Gora, or will something else be done? Does anyone have any thoughts in this direction? Because people are leaving villages and it's good that you even get a man there. But I speak for those people who simply feel like they've been completely rejected because they're geographically all the same. And if they're still political, then something's wrong. And we're going to Europe and they're on the Italian border, actually. And we're in Europe, they're in the middle of a Europe, and they can't physically come to Europe, they have to do 100 kilometers of bad roads. I think it's high time that this problem of theirs came to light and that it would begin to resolve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to identify or join those who are not satisfied that we are taking the annual program somewhere in the middle of the year. Perhaps this is why we talk much more about everything else, only about the annual program very little, and that we bring the matter as usual to somewhere else, because the highway is one thing that much can be said about. I am also very surprised that some of the concerns about the financing of motorways, but we remember not too far back when we adopted the resolution of the national programme, but that they supported all possible and impossible solutions in the way that we have already included almost Polish routes in the national programme for the construction of motorways. And, of course, today, the same one speaks of how we burden the country with the national programme is unusual. As for the annual programme, it is usually that Members are not satisfied with the construction of their sections. I am one of those who met this story at the very beginning, when the national programme was being created, it was made up of all kinds of plans and promises that then spread, and we have recently received a resolution that I am worried about getting another resolution. This is also due to the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways. In fact, the section of the Maribor-Hungarian border is dealt with here in such a way as to expect another resolution on the resolution. It is true that in the last three-, four-year period the construction of highways has been such that a person has the feeling that the construction programme will be implemented to some extent, but in this annual programme the issue is so entrenched that there is not much going on in this section. And the expectations, which are also covered by the programme, are such that the completion of the construction of some sections in this work, the Maribor-Hungarian border, will be postponed to where the optimists predict. It is true that we have one section, which is very well built, but allows only local connection; that really machines did not stop at this section and build further, slowly, but only until here. I expected this annual programme to include activities on the following sections, from Cugetinec onward. Because if we don't have the basic steps needed to start building on some sections in this program - we all know what this is, from the documentation, land acquisition and so on. And those who know how long it takes to build a section - some of course sell stories to build everything in two years, which is stupid, but then the story of completion of the Maribor-Hungarian section is such that some of us can worry a little. First of all, because we are the ones who have experienced birth cramps at the beginning of the construction of highways and we thought that the issue was glass, and now again we see that the cramps are experiencing individual sections, and we are skeptical in the annual programmes and, of course, in the further construction of motorways. I just wanted to point out that I didn't want the resolution to experience another resolution that would have moved this section back in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members of the Government! I would not repeat everything my fellow Members have said before. At the time of reading this point, however, I would like to say what makes sense to me about the Thinkinska klanec road, which is the only link between Koroška and Ljubljana, which has been promised several times and which is probably already a project. At the time of the consideration of the national highway construction programme, it was decided that the government would draw up a national programme for the construction of motorways, as an additional programme was drawn from the resolution and the reconstruction of the road The Thinkinska Klane was again postponed to not knowing what years. However, the fact is that it is becoming a very dangerous road for all means of transport. I highlighted this problem at the board meeting, but I didn't get an answer. Now, again, I ask the representative of the Minister, and I want a concrete answer to when the government intends to draw up a regulation setting out the financial means for the reconstruction of this particular slaughterhouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues. When we look at this programme to build an annual development plan and rebuild highways, I must say that it seems to me that it is ready to be a little more transparent, that the scale is somewhat shrinking, because we were practically lost in opacity last year. With all that my predecessors have already said, what are the real dilemmas of building motorways and construction plans, I would just like to say that I too am very disturbed by some things, that there is an ongoing feature, an item, such as sections, built after 1994, on which final works are being carried out in 2004. We don't seem to put roads into final use. When you look at the end of how many kilometres of roads, on 144.9 kilometers, four lanes of highways are completed, practically on a large part of the highway and on other roads. At the same time, one wonders why Dars and all those performers who are responsible don't work the "key" highway. This is where the questions come in. For these roads, has the lack of project technical documentation been prepared for these sections? Whether part of the project and contract budget have not been fully implemented and has been abandoned to the operator. Thirdly, whether control in construction was weak and the error that should have been made in the context of a complaint against the costs of the operator was corrected. I think most of these things should be done under the heading of the complaint. Something's not right here. We also work final works on roads that were built before 1994. Whether these are already reconstructions, this is another matter, but as long as you represent under final work, I think that probably not all the procedures that are normal at the time of acquisition and before issue of the usable permit have been carried out. These things have to be recorded in the technical takeover, gone. I think that probably with the technical documentation and the broadcasting part something is wrong, there is a new section here - you have at the cost of registering investments and monitoring implementation under number 4.3 the cost of carrying out audits, project and technical documentation. Personally, I think it's a necessary item. I think it is necessary, because in my opinion, project and technical documentation is too flawed. And that this matter was not subject to proper supervision, that even designers may have allowed themselves conscious errors, because Dars and all of these generously overlooked or even underestimated them, they installed a security guard and designers for additional work, for additional plans, for additional profits. This leads me to believe that in recent years, when we drive past construction sites, we are looking at how many entire built superstructures have collapsed. In Sleazy, for instance. There was no coordination here. That a huge overpass, which was in the function of crossing the highway, had to be demolished and built a second 20 meters on top of it. There was no long-term planning coordination here. Then the students I picked up on the highway warned me when we were driving across the Trojans, and they asked me why they had three pillars down here over this viaduct, when it came out of the tunnel? Those huge pillars, the stretching pillars, they collapsed. I don't know, for two of them, then I made sure they were broken. They weren't put in the right place! Can such a serious mistake happen? One of these pillars, which is 15 meters in the country, 20 meters above the ground, is a huge investment. And there's a lot of money. And of course this 120 million, if this is a mistake, is little money against what's going on. I don't know, it's also where this import road is being moved because of these pillars. Once it's built in one place, once in another place. There are obviously some errors on all sections of the route, resulting in poorly prepared project and technical documentation. That's why I say I'm not against this item. I think it's a save if it's done consistently, if it's not meant to be a source of income for someone who won't do his job properly. I hope everything is well-intentioned and necessary. However, I would like once to have an answer from the ministry and Darsa - a report on what were the biggest errors in the project documentation, the material consequences of such errors, on whose account they went. Were they at the expense of a designer, a contractor, and so on, or were they all paid by the State or by taxpayers? And a third thing that would interest a person this year when we're in an election year. It would be very nice if we had an item, how much, globally, is an extremely low cost in this huge cost of building roads, but still important, for me a politically important item, what is the cost of propaganda, pyar, openings and so on. In fact, it is normal that the season of the openings began, which will be more luxurious this year because it is an electoral year; I think the new minister has an extraordinary sense that he will be able to "paint" and set up in all objects. And here is the important difference between the opposition and the position: while the opposition will take a little picture along with it, it will be invited to open up, but this huge cost can be used with funds that can be used politically extremely. I am sure that this is happening, and it would be good if we had shown the cost in a year that is not elective, and the cost in an election year, because I believe that this means can be hidden elsewhere. However, I would call, in fact, for this money not to be overly dispersed, even if there is little money in the global, and for this not to be over-exploited by the government's position of over-advertising at the expense of taxpayers' funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor, which is not there right now. The next one has the word, Mr. Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I will be very brief, because I myself would not like to repeat things that have already been said many times and which, as I see, disturb most of the debaters. Actually, I'm talking about one thing, the next. See, in the last few days, those who drive daily on the highway leading from Ljubljana to Primorsko, specifically at the section of Vrhnika-Ljubljana, are facing a practical traffic heart attack. Things are practically impossible. Of course, I understand, it's about maintenance-related things, but the crowd is really too much, and I think we're going to have to plan things a little differently in the future. In particular, I am speaking because there is another problem with all these crowds, which no one has given special attention to today, namely the problem of the functioning of the ABC system. At this very end, we are often faced with the problem of the ABC's failure. What's causing this is, I don't know, I just know that I've tried to rush these things around on my own, but obviously I wasn't persistent enough and successful enough. You'll tell me why I'm saying this. I'm speaking for a simple reason, because things have exceeded all normal boundaries. Personally, I've been tipped off in court if I misapplied to use an ABC card or a license plate or whatever it's called, and I didn't know what it was. And when I turned to the proper service, they didn't tell me what the reason was really, how I was -- it was said that I wanted to avoid tolls, which is stupid; if I had an ABC card, then it makes sense that even if I wanted to avoid tolls, it would be kind of hard to do that. Well, the judge dropped the charges, though. Interestingly, on the same day, someone else was in a similar situation behind me, and that thing was discarded. But I'm pointing out the problem, it seems to me that these things should be settled, because it's not just that, but some people have said that this system works well. Personally, I do not have a good opinion on this system, so I am so much happier when I read or when I can read in the development plan that a little more attention will be given to to tolling in the future. Speaking of which, there's only one thing I'd like to say. I am very pleased that the construction of anti-group fences will continue. I am convinced that anti-group protection must be carried out wherever measurements show that there is an excessive noise interference in the environment. And I'm done with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Honourable Secretary of State with his co-worker. Given that we are in the middle of the year, I do not think it shows anything other than this plan to be adopted as soon as possible, so that the work could go smoothly and the plan could also be implemented. Of course, given that this plan is not intended for itself, but is actually part of the national programme, it is part of the implementation of the Automotive Financing Act and I would like to draw attention to some problems in this regard. The fact is, data show, above all, in the dynamics of construction, that if we compare dynamics with what is recorded in the first basic documents and in the law and in particular in the national programme on the construction of motorways, where among the strategic objectives is given first, "to build highways to ensure the proper internal cohesion of the country", I quote, and "the improvement of the highway system will allow better and more efficient movement of goods, services of people, which will affect further polycentric development, decentralisation and more equitable development of the country." And then I want to warn you. If we look at the dynamics, we can see that between those routes or sections where there's the biggest backlog, it's pomurish. That's a fact. Even if we look at it -- this is also reflected in this plan, which is not a complete picture, but. Let's look at Table 1, which tells us about the resources to be allocated to individual sections where it is to complete the construction of individual sections and also to start or continue construction, which will affect the dynamics of construction in the coming years, then we find out that out of 84 billion for the Cugetinci-Vučica route, it is estimated that the connection between Pomurje is 1.2 billion, which represents 1.4% of the total amount. And this amount represents 70% of all the funds earmarked for the motorways this year. If I try to illustrate this more illustratively, given that I drive at least once a week from Ljubljana to Radence and back, it usually happens to me that to Maribor, which represents three quarters of the distance to Radenci, I spend as much time as I do from Maribor to Radenchev, especially when there is a convoy of trucks from Maribor to Radenchev and further towards the Hungarian border. Clearly, this has become a narrow throat and also one of the main pillars of faster, more even development. For who will trade, who will primarily invest in such areas where such a traffic situation is? In doing so, I would like to reiterate that when we confirm this plan, not only the transport ministry and, of course, the transport ministry, will do everything in the future to accelerate the dynamics of the construction of motorways in the coming years, in addition to the budget or the petrol toll, to make more use of other resources, in addition to the assets of the European Investment Bank, which we can do with concessions, and to make use of other resources. I think that this is also one of the current proposals in the debate on the new financial perspective of the European Union from 2007 to 2013, where the Commission's proposals are, and these proposals show support that, in conjunction with the Lisbon strategy, there is also a greater emphasis on the construction of a trans-European network, including motorways, and then, I am sure, with appropriate efforts, it is also possible to obtain more resources from these sources. Not only because of Pomur, because of other less developed areas, which also need a faster link across the highways, but also because it would not happen in the future, that the plans of the so-called fifth corridor would overtake the neighbours and others on the left and on the right. And let me wrap this up, not with "greeting" but with good intentions. I was pleased to see the new Minister of Transport at the beginning of his term of office, among other things, immediately looking at some of the buildings along with the representatives of Darsa. But I was a little sadder when he stopped in Maribor and did not go any further after this critical work, where falling behind was the biggest. I also told him this week and he reacted positively and assured him that, at the first opportunity, in the second half of June, he would also go where the machines did not actually rest purely, but were defending, rather than actually working and building. And he also addressed me to contact the Secretary of State and I am trying to make this visit more concrete with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u34	One wonders what it makes sense to accept such a document on May 20th, when it is clear, if we want to do what it says in this programme, in this year, it has to start, or if it is pure, I would say, a fiction that we accept just to have another document with us. It is incomprehensible that this annual programme did not go along with at least the resolution or that it did not come with the 2004 and 2005 budget, as did all other development programmes. But it's obvious that we're going to re-admit a document that won't serve anything and nobody. But that's what we're used to. And that's how it's obviously done, and it's going to move on. I don't understand it, every year the same comments, the same objections, but dead cold things are ignored. It is incomprehensible that, since October of last month, these papers have been circulated between these institutions and that, in the end, from the Ministry of Transport to the National Assembly again a few months, and that, of course, the documents which must have a basis in the resolution and probably have a basis, the documents which are a copy of the provisional financial plan are likely to be, and so the Government has been able to adopt the provisional financial plan, which has been in force since 1.1. onwards, the National Assembly is not worthy of what it has to do and, in fact, gives confirmation, of what is being done, to verify, of course, when it is necessary, in the last year and so on, as plans are, if this document has the title of the plan, then the plan must be made at the beginning and then carried out. I've always thought that, and I keep saying the same things. Of course, I don't lose words by actually being a "customer" that works year after year and just writes other things. Some things have been practically in there for almost ten years, the same sections and those that started at the time, that was already said. Well, now we have these things right here. If I walk through this document, then of course I'm disturbed by some things. If I start with the paperwork. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that in some things documentation is late, but it is not that you are putting on the government together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, for example, a local regulation for a state road which is listed here, for example, preliminary projects and redemption. What you're planning to do this year, the paperwork is late, but you've already put in a month ago for a road that's not here, that next year someone's going to say, "Yes, and here we have documentation, it can go into the program." What are we doing these things for? Please answer why let's say this particular thing went through, but you write here as if there were previous projects, but it's already realized, it's already done and you're also earmarking funds for it. Okay, I know how to explain myself, but to make sure that things don't go wrong, I know how these things go, if someone pulls something forward, it happens, if the other thing doesn't work, it doesn't work. That is why some things stand, while others are indistinctly classified as priorities. Here, when you finish, let's say in May, you know for sure what things you can or will not finish this year. But what you're writing, if that's the way it is, if it's not, it's gonna be different. Yes, because this is not a plan, we are going to make a plan, or we are going to say something, we are not going to start this year, and we are going to make it happen next year. But, look at you, you have, say, a whole terminology. You say once, it'll be over by the end of the year, and then you have December. What does that mean? It could be October at the end of the year. It could be November. I don't know why this is happening. Because, of course, you have the end of December and then you have the note, if not, in the second year. I don't think that makes much sense. I want an explicit answer to the question of how funding is. Here you state that there will be domestic funds, i.e. budget, to be loans, to be out of the concession money and tolls, etc. But again, there's the same diction as before, if it's there, it'll be, if it's not, it won't be. At this point, you need to know whether 6.4 billion money will be provided from cohesion or not. At this point, it is time to know that the programmes were sent to Brussels, whether they were approved or not. But you're still writing, if it is, it will, if it isn't, be something else. It is necessary to know, because cohesion funds are own resources, which are included in those 37 billion or are deducted from those 37 billion, which is supposed to be provided from the state budget. We should clearly define ourselves here. You say bonds here even now, new loans. You must have had a serious plan to do that last year when you brought the document to the National Assembly to start issuing the bonds. But you say here that it can happen that there won't be any. It reads literally: "In 2004 the procedure for issuing bonds on the domestic market or renting financial loans intended to finance sections" etc. will begin, "in case the terms of financing with financial loans will be more favourable" etc., "a part of the amount can be replaced by financial loans." It was the other way around. Last year you argued the opposite, and in the resolution you claimed the other way around. That this is the source that is right, i.e. bonds to include domestic financiers, to keep interest money with domestic legal and probably later natural persons if development goes forward in this direction, etc., to disperse investment, etc. All of these were words we exchanged through this place and to whom we actually believed. But it says here again, if so, it will be. But you in the middle of the year have to have answers to these some dilemmas, because it is clear whether to rent a loan, because you have to go look for it, you have to go to the National Assembly for a guarantee, you have to, I don't know, do anything else, or issue bonds, etc. For all you need three, four, five months, provided, of course, that everything runs as optimal as it is. This year there are probably elections, and the National Assembly, if you come to get the guarantee, will probably not consider this in September because it will not want to deal with the country's borrowing and so on. And that means only there in November. Is that possible then? I think the execution is questionable. It seems to me, however, that I will support this, because I have no choice, because the thing is in progress, because it is a reality and so on, but as a citizen of this country, many questions are being asked, is it not just a document to report something in the National Assembly and so on? And also, let's say when you talk about costs, about divisiveness, you have to try very hard to follow. For example, you have 100 million to ensure safety and health at work - okay, but I always thought that this was an integral part of the project, that the investment value, which consists of not knowing how many items, must also be made up of this. Then you have 120 million for technical documentation - also right, but again it is an integral part of the project. I'm talking about how much better it would be if things were transparent, clear and so on. But, of course, it's another time. Finally, I would like to say that I want to hear the answer to the question about completions and what is listed here as an alternative, as an option, as I do not know what; what is with bonds or this part when you talk about cohesion funds, whether they will or will not, and from which source you will really replace them, because at this point you need to know these things. As far as tolling is concerned, this sentence - the two sentences are written - should be supported by when to introduce it, i.e. electronically, experimentally and so on. And of course, what is the goal of performance in terms of completing whether it is this year or this year - I believe it will not, but it says here that it will begin to test. What time do you think, and what is it that you intend to do this year? I would like to conclude by saying that it would really be advisable for you to start preparing a document for 2005 now, because the budget has already been adopted in one way or another and foresees that part of the funds that are in the budget, whether there is a balance or whatever, but you have a known domestic resource. You're probably planning again from some fund somewhere, which you need to prepare documentation for now. It is also known how far the scope of the commitment can be achieved in the nearness of the law on budgetary implementation for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidic, will you just answer now? Please, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Thank you for the constructive debate. Unfortunately, at first I was a little late, for which I sincerely apologize; only at 10.15 a.m., when I was in the car, was I informed on the phone that the meeting was postponed, even though I was at a meeting in the National Assembly from 8:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Again, I apologize for that. I am aware that the adoption of the annual plan in May for the current year is essential, essentially late. Let me remind you that you have already adopted the 2003 Annual Plan in the National Assembly in December 2002, which is the only correct one, and with you I also have some credit that this was already adopted in 2002 for 2003. In any event, plans for the following years must be adopted by January at the latest, but the objective is certainly by the end of the year. However, for such an annual plan as is currently under consideration, there was no doubt that it was possible to send it out for consideration earlier. The annual plan is in line with the new national programme adopted by the National Assembly on 27 February, in line with the new Dars Act, which was adopted at the end of last year, but contracts between the State and Dars were signed on 29 April. The government adopted this annual plan before the final conclusion of the contracts, but already at that stage of the negotiations between the State and Dars, which allowed this annual plan to be one that is also aligned with the concepts of both treaties. That seems very important to me. So this annual plan actually now represents only new construction, renewal and financial engineering. However, it no longer contains management and maintenance. Therefore, the financial structure of this annual plan is quite different from that of the past. And in this, the essential difference, which is also very important when comparing both plans, i.e. last year and this year, Mr Sok discussed. For this comparison it is necessary to be aware of the concepts of both contracts. I'd answer Mr. Anderlich. If we had sent an annual plan for 2004 in the past year, this annual plan would have been practically the same for the new construction itself. However, it would not contain bond financing and would not include refinancing. As far as physical construction is concerned, it would be practically the same, and I agree with that. In order to shorten this delay, future annual plans must be ready by the end of the year for the following year. As regards the completion of sections in this year or the fuses installed in this annual plan for two sections, namely the section across the Black Kal and the section across the Trojans, I can say that for the motorway from Klanec to Ankara, to the Ankaran crossing, we can very likely claim that it will be built up this year, and we cannot know about the section beyond the Trojans, because the last implementing contract for electrical equipment has not yet been signed. Until this is signed, the deadline for the upgrade will not be clear. As far as cohesion funds are concerned, we are awaiting a response from Brussels. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] He was reported in the direction of Smednik-Krška village. [[...]] The answer was to come in a few weeks. If all these funds are not fully available, more than 6 billion will be pumped this year, they will only be pumped in the coming years; if the project is not approved, we will report another project. In any event, the annual plan must be implemented to a physical extent. And there are, of course, financial mechanisms for this, and we are sure that this will be arranged, so that physical construction will not suffer as a result. I must also point out that the key difference between the national programme and this annual plan is essentially the share of bonds and the share of loans. The annual plan itself is 7% higher, with a clear lower share of bonds and a higher share of loans. This is also due to the fact that the procedures for issuing the bonds have not been formally initiated since the annual plan for this year has not yet been adopted. This, unfortunately, is the legal interpretation of some who decide to do so. A lot of people have a slightly different opinion, but that's just the situation. Once the bond procedures are in place, it will also be possible - this is the opinion of the Ministry - to compensate the difference that could arise from the delay in drawing on cohesion funds by increasing the issue of bonds. As far as the electronic toll system is concerned, we are waiting for the completion of the study, which will be completed by the end of June, and will then be reviewed by foreign experts. And according to the results of this study, this year - this is our wish - we are also starting some pilot projects. However, the objective is to establish an electronic system of free movement tolling still in 2008. We believe that this is still possible, and we will do everything we can to achieve it. In the coming years, the most important project in the field of motorways will probably be the introduction of this toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you. Well, if this is about correcting your statement, then, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u38	Look, when you talk about bonds, the legal basis in the guarantee law we passed last June, I think, in this National Assembly. Thus, the indication that only this is the basis for the initiation of the issue of bonds is not correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u39	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u40	I personally agree with Mr. Anderlich. Unfortunately, however, the procedures for issuing bonds, those legal forms, i.e. the tenders, did not start because some have a different legal opinion than Mr Anderlich and I personally. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u41	Good. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. At the same time, I might point out only a few things that usually go down in these highways, and ultimately have a very important impact on both dynamics and timing and finance. The fact is that we have received an annual plan in the Rapporteur, where an extremely large amount of work is expected to be completed this year. And if this plan is to be implemented, even from these discussions today, it is necessary to organise construction work in a different way. This is said with increased teams, with additional costs, and also because it is premature endings, probably with additional awards. These are things that are not processed anywhere in the annual plan, nor evaluated. However, they are one of those sources or consequences that affect the result and the price of the project. The second thing that I also find problematic, including from this data on page 54 in the Rapporteur, is this obvious, is an extremely uncoordinated, unstable programme. This year we have an estimated 70 kilometers of opening or opening roads. In the years to come, if it all comes true, it's 48. And in the next two years. This is said to mean that if all the roads on which work continues and all the new parts are opened, that is to say more than 48 kilometers. In practice, however, it is likely that only five kilometres of opening or finishing work will be envisaged for the second year. In short, one year 70, the other five. They work in a program of big delays, big holes. The programme does not take place in a stable way, which also affects prices because they are either stretched out or overworked. After all, this is paid by the budget and by taxes collected in one way or another for direct or indirect payment of credits and other liabilities. This year it is estimated to be 122 billion miles [70 km]. The second year will take place on 48 km of roads, and I wonder whether there will also be 120 billion resources to continue this project, because it is likely that the most difficult and expensive sections of this motorway programme will be completed physically and financially. I think it would be right that this programme is also a bit of a process from the point of view of these dynamics. The next thing that is problematic is also a uniform standard for all those who benefit from motorways. In some areas the highway is the only one citizens or passengers can use. They are said to be forced to use it, but in some other areas or in most other areas they have a choice. They say they can use a toll or a non-road. In these areas, I think it would be necessary to ensure that we have all those who use the highway or that we all have the opportunity to also benefit from the complementary or parallel or parallel road. I have also mentioned before, on behalf of the Group of Members, that it would be good to have complementary programmes in this programme that will be implemented in the coming years, because it is necessary to create conditions for these programmes to start in time, that they will also be timely and timely, that people with difficult conditions and opportunities will also be able to join the roads in a timely manner and can also benefit from the opportunities offered by programmes for coherent regional development. Resources are also one of the important areas. Here, it is necessary to say that this structure of resources from year to year is deteriorating, and the share of permanent resources is significantly deteriorating, this is called a petrol tolar, dedicated resources, petrol tolar and tolls are steadily falling and various forms of debt are increasing, either credit or new bonds. I do not think it is best that the resources provided, which are relatively favourable, practically from a financial point of view, are being replaced with more expensive resources and that all these burdens, which are increasing and will also become too heavy soon, are being repositioned and rebalanced far into the future. On the other hand, it is also a problem that the plan for the part or the withdrawal of funds from the gas toll to return to the highway program in order to move the plan further and further. These things will certainly not be realized as foreseen in the resolution on the national programme. In short, it is a systemicly flawed approach and consciously causes it to deceive itself in this area and that these things will not be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Realised as planned. However, I must say that I am quite pleased that colleague Anderlič has worked so hard on his government, because all that we have heard in his debate should probably be the subject of government work, as well as some coalition coordination. And I must say that as an opposition Member, I am appalled at the debate. Not even over the discussion, but over the content of what documents we receive from the coalition in this National Assembly. What if we could afford such a weighty and powerful analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Leopold Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk about the tolls. We have also heard the Secretary of State, announcing several times that the case should be settled in 2008. We are only talking about tolls because, without believing the Secretary of State's statements, we have been listening for four or five years to the same story, that studies are being done, that five years or four of them have been talking about other options, while the system we have is only getting worse, less money is coming into the budget to build roads, people are more upset. Of course, nothing has been done at that time to improve things in any way, not in any single element. And that's wrong. Even now, what is envisaged is just at this point in time studies that will continue to be tested and so on. Finally, we will have this, as we have said several times before, a mixed toll system instead of a mixed toll system. We'll have expensive entrance facilities that won't serve anyone, and so on and so forth. We've already torn some down, built new ones, and in short, the mess is perfect. I hope that what will now be done in this study, and what will come out of this study, will ultimately bring about and that we will accept and accept the real issue and that the profession will thus stand behind it, and that it will probably be included in European flows, because we will probably not invent ourselves into an incompatible system of our own, and so on, that it will actually serve to pay everyone who is driving on the highway, according to how it is driven, that the simplest system of collecting this money and the most efficient one will be so that we can service motorways and build new ones. The second point I would like to draw attention to in this regard is, otherwise guarantee and I must say that the minister also intervened in the midst of much joy, including mine, and cut off some of the thoughts that have gone in the wrong direction after my judgment. I hope it doesn't happen again. We are talking about changes in standards, about ideas about changing the width of roads in new sections. This is linked to saving, and it's right. I strongly agree that all projects that are still in the process of being created need to be rewinded and determined whether there is anywhere to be saved. That, of course, is a good and wise thought. But not the savings on roads, motorways that are being built, for decades ahead, going to some standards that are not our own, not Europe, not the future, not the future, not the fact that in 20 years, 30 years after those same highways will probably drive even longer columns, much more cars and trucks than is being done now. In short, technical standards should be what they must be, even if for a year or a half or a year or a half, or if I don't know how much construction is due to this, because, of course, everything is related to money, it's delayed. It's not like we're gonna be doing some highway faults that we're going to have in a few years, of course, on our backs when strange things are going to happen on these highways. That's unacceptable. Of course, I think it's wrong to think about it, and it needs to be wiped out. I am pleased that we have made sure that things that we haven't moved in years and years have moved in this year, but I am also talking about a high-speed highway that has fallen out of all the programmes in this country because of some crazy political history, because someone thought that the world would end on our southern border, even as far as traffic is concerned, and of course that's not the case. Of course, it is only now that this matter is reintroduced into that normal process as it must be. I hope and appeal that all the procedures that must be carried out this year, as recorded, as agreed at the end and as promised, are carried out. The same is true of course if I speak a little more regionally about already agreed things regarding the continuation of the road from the Ptujska road in Maribor to the Posnica, if I make it very easy. Just one more sentence or two. There is no room, in my judgment, for politicizing even this, because of course this is a story that I should not have, and I think it has nothing to do with politics and therefore these openings, which would be more this year, and that, in the time before the elections, of course, do not make any sense, because the openings are when the roads are finished. And they end up usually in a period of time, each year the same. The roads are not completed in January and February, but probably in the period after the completed construction season or in the construction season. So these are inventions that have no basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Our debate was joined by Prime Minister Dars, Mr Bozic, whom I welcome. And I'm giving the word to Dorian Marsh to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your word. Maybe I'll be one of the few people I can say I'm happy with. I am pleased, however, mainly because the road leg against Slovenia is about to be completed against the sea practically before the deadline, which is also foreseen by the resolution on the construction of motorways. Thus they will be completed by the end of this year, if not, and in the first half of the following year, the Socerb-Srmin section and for us a very important section of Srmin-Skofija, at least in that part 2.4 km. As far as I can see from this data, it is clear that some less than 20 billion dollars will be spent on these sections this year. Of course, the Primors or people of Slovenian Istria look forward to the completion of these motorways, but certain concerns have also been expressed, which have been mentioned several times on both the Infrastructure Committee and the letters written by the mayors of the three coastal municipalities. It is a matter of fear that, with the immediate continuation of the construction of the coastal road and the connection that goes to Škofij, the highway, when it will be connected to Kopra and to the fast road from Srmin to Kopra, will create a stopper that will cause great problems. The next part, however, is the near and early link of the highway cross with the passage and link to the port of Koper. These are things that we should take into account, even though they are slightly distracted, at least as far as the coastline is concerned, that in such a busy area as the coast is certainly, especially with the transit from Croatia to Italy - this burden is great and means for this area some discomfort that people are not prepared to accept. Nevertheless, I thank you, the viaduct will soon be open. The first such opening will be when the bikers cross it, but we expect that the official opening will be at the end of this year to prove that our builders are doing their job well and that they can do some of the things they planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thanks, buddy Marshich. Alexander Merlo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Three things I'd like to say to the representatives of Dars. Today, when I was heading towards Ljubljana, I was still able to get somewhere, and the crisis was for those who were heading south towards Postojna; the column was unbroken; it stood still. I would warn those of us who have been driving to Ljubljana for years, that every year is the same story as vacations are approaching, that you are trying to quickly resolve certain sections that were not even so bad. I would recommend that this problem of citizens, as well as foreigners, who are already quite on the road at this time, try to drive in a slightly different way. In short, maybe one section per piece, and perhaps to see more of these people working on things, not just what they are doing at night and so on, but to reduce these hands substantially, just as much of the daily distress and nervousness that Members feel when our voters protest, but there is really nothing to do and change in this area over so many years. For they are usually one and the same, and those who are now the other or third references to the national assembly, we always have the same people who are protesting that we should take action. That's another thing. We all agree that it is necessary to work on the highway cross as quickly as possible, to reduce hands and the like, but not at any cost. I don't agree that we're getting to the point where we have worse and worse local roads, state roads, where you actually don't know at times what they're like. Sometimes I'm more field than roads. And at all costs, I think it's also important to think about what to take in the coming years to implement a highway programme at the expense of saying the catastrophic situation of regionals. So I would recommend, look also a little bit at how many accidents and the like, even partly because of the bad roads, and this "flickaria" is now winter, which was obviously quite fatal for a lot of people, does not apply to you just swinging your hand, and the matter will go as far as it is. Third thing. At the end of this year, I think it has raised a lot of dust on this transport issue, especially freight with neighbouring Croatia. And please consider that we will not have unforeseen situations in this population in our end, it is called the coastal-internal area, when you give us everything we don't want in Slovenia. Now we would like to be given, I don't know, windshields and freight traffic in ways such as the road to Jelshan, Postojna, Pivka, Illyrian Bistrica, Jelshana and so on or Kozina, and further to Jelshan. I think they're discontented, in the area next door, in a Cossack, like in a capital or beer-bishtrich. So I think, let's actually take your time and do something until it's too late, and people won't be closing your roads or anything like that. I think that at least the conversation and setting up projects should be implemented, not only on ideas, but in fact on specific projects in this direction, where this highway from this, now the existing highway area against Cyprus will leave, or go against the Croatian border, against the Jelshans. I think that there might also be a public debate on this subject, and in the media, what people think and so on, it would not be too much of a surprise again. I would ask not to be an initiative and a question, but to think about it for yourself, perhaps in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you, colleague Merlo. I'll give the word to Joseph Spindler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. A beautiful and warm greeting to all present! What can I say? I'm glad we got this plan on the table. But I would be much more pleased if we discussed the plan for next year. And we've confirmed it today. But it's not like that. At least some of the things that we've been negotiating have moved, which, of course, I thank all those present from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so at least something is going on in this end. Above all, I mean the eastern part of Slovenia. I am pleased that work continues also on the highway program from the Wolf Village to the Cuggettins, so that works are relatively well done here. It also says that the thing will go faster, and I think the second year will be the real site on this section. However, it is unlikely that if we read on page 4, the preparation of the project and other documentation will take place in 2004. I think it's already happening. This should probably be written because these things refer to Lenart- Lower Senarska-Upland Senarska-Cugetinci-Beltinci-Lendava and Lendava-Pince, which is of exceptional importance for our end. I am also pleased that the construction of a fast road from Slovenska Bistrica via the railway of Prague is continuing and that I also mention the execution against Hajdina, so I think we will reach this section as soon as possible. I think that at least the annual development plan for renewal or for the construction of motorways in the following year will be much more documented, especially for our north-eastern part, for which we are virtually all striving to reach it as soon as possible. With regard to the unbuilt highway programme, which has been practically twice in Pomour, there is now a third route that we hope somewhere that it will run to the end, at least to the end, what we want somewhere in our end. Because what Mr Merlo said before me is the most in poor shape, of course, the roads of national importance, regional women. There will be no talk about this today, but I would still ask that these roads come as soon as possible. These are the things that are and we hope that after this writing, which is also written here, more or less after the program will all be glassed. I think that when or will we be elected for the next term, we will also be able to look forward to this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of the present panellists. But there's still time for discussion. Under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I will ask who else wants to discuss it. Joze Azhitch has already responded, Aloise Sok. Just to make a note. Joze Auschwitz has your word, and I'll take the rest of you down, Anton Anderlich. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. The problem is, as long as the highways don't build until it's done. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u53	Wait a minute. We're measuring time again. Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u54	The problem is, as long as we do not see ourselves in the adopted programme, until a section is built, but there are also major problems when sections begin to build. And my debate is actually about the implementation of the annual programme or the annual programmes. Some colleagues have already warned in the context of this programme that state roads will also need to be updated in parallel with this programme. I fear that in some parts of Slovenia, this applies mainly to Dolenjska, which I know most, some sections of state roads will be completely destroyed or so destroyed that thorough reconstruction is needed once the four lanes are built. Of course, we must be satisfied with the investor's statements, which is Darsa, that contracts are concluded with contractors so that all these shortcomings will be resolved, and I do not believe that this will be possible to this extent. The problem occurs to the greatest extent where there are no parallels now, as the people want them in the future. Where, of course, fast roads remain, they will continue to function, there are no such problems. Therefore, I would like the investor to take special care at the time of construction to ensure that there are as few complications as possible and as few problems as possible around construction sites or on all those roads that are mainly used to deliver different materials. The second part that I would like to look at is that we have repeatedly heard that we are building beautiful buildings, beautiful highways, and that we can be proud of it. Now I have to ask one question. We have an object right here at the beach end, for which they are probably rightfully asking, not only the locals, but also those who come as tourists to our place, who and how they designed such a strange building that was built in the middle of Catež. This is some sort of box that means overcovering and is architecturally such that it doesn't fit into any space. We have asked the question several times before, at least I would like to know who the architect of this, because I think that if we competed in the most ugly object on the highway, it would certainly win. It would be nice to know who it was, because the problem I would like to draw attention to is also in the future, where new sections are coming in, so that when a local plan for a certain section is adopted, that the local community, especially the countries, those living directly along the highway, will also show architectural and other solutions as to how this location plan will be implemented. There's a lot going on. I have observed strangely several times with us anti-group fences, which, of course, are effective, counter-group, but they are horribly disruptive in the environment, then traffic regimes, which are adapted and extremely disruptive every day. With this programme, which I will support, as we will probably all be in most of them, I would point out that when individual sections are built, more care must be taken about what kind of regime at the time of construction is in the environment where it is being carried out, as such projects are then changing to the opposite. We wanted them first, and then we could almost argue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Aloys Sok gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much. First of all, in case I forget, I'd like to suggest a solution to the Ministry. During summer vacations and vacations, it would not be appropriate to collect more than one mile [km] of tolls on our roads. I think that at the Ministry in this regard you can make a decision and properly prepare yourself and in those corners of this toll ramp lift up and let these columns of vehicles through, there will be a greater fire and effect for the reputation of Slovenia than it does for this to happen. This is one well-intentioned comment and a proposal, and I know that if you want it to be resolved in this way. Second. The problem of highway construction in Slovenia is, but this was started by some of my colleagues from Pomurje, which was to be said here when the national programme was adopted. Now the national programme has been adopted, and I believe that, by 2013, even though it has been implemented for a long time, it will, of course, even if more than is envisaged to be implemented each year, for a few percent more, and then, of course, this programme will be implemented even earlier. However, I applied for a word for one reason or another. I know that this plan is different this year than the 2003 plan, due to the adopted law and the status reshape of Dars. This plan covers new constructions, renovations and financial engineering, not covered by management costs, but still some of this comes from. I've calculated that the concession that comes from the toll collected is maybe some other revenue that is less than 11%. Taking into account the costs or the financing account, it is the payment of interest and the principals, which I now understand, on Dars, are still not getting the percentage that was in the plan for last year. For this reason, I also mentioned that I somehow lack the data that could be shown in this plan, how many tolls are collected annually and what percentage of this money is self-sustaining. This was shown last year, this year I understand, it is a matter of these two treaties that Dars signed with the government and that we have never been able to see in the National Assembly. Secondly, which also comes out in some way from this plan, although the plan is different from it was last year, and the fact that the earmarkings, in the first place I understand the gas toll here, in this year compared to last year's, there is no complete explanation why this is the case. I am simply convinced that, like other fellow Members, a good part of this petrol tolar has been being used for many years, of course, and this percentage is increasing, for some other plans. It is not what the law has also specifically intended and legally defined. And there's one more thing. As funding has been going on lately, it is clear that the state of Slovenia in this area - although Dars is in debt, but with the State guarantee - we are increasingly indebted. And since there is no doubt that funds, credits, will have to be paid, along with interest, there will be problems in this area in the long term. However, problems will arise because this toll, which is supposed to be a source to repay it, will have to be used not only to repay debts but also to maintain longer and longer sections of Slovenian motorways. And in such a way, such an approach will undoubtedly mean that this system will at some point come into a state where Dars will not be able to financially consolidate it in such a way. Then we will face what we are talking about today. The state will no doubt, like the one who gave the guarantee, then have to enter this system and cover it in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you, Comrade Sok. My word is Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u58	Mr Tank doesn't have to be appalled when I'm talking, because I never have a problem saying what I mean and what I find to be said. And also everything I'm talking about can't be used in the opposite direction, like if I criticize my government and so on. But if there's any confusion, they need to be cleared up. And I didn't get any answers to a few questions, but I also think it's some illogicality and some mistakes. Under Chapter 6, where financing for the development and renewal of motorways and the development plan for connecting roads, it is not possible to write in point 6.1 that "in the event of a new debt falls" and end the sentence that "the total amount at this source will not change and will amount to 37 billion". It is indeed possible that the amount will remain 37 billion, but it will be from another source - it will be from the source of the debt, not from the source of the law, as you say in the first paragraph. It's a completely different source. And it should be borne in mind that in this case there is an additional commitment. In the case of the law, however, it would be the funds provided by law and budget. That's a mistake. Be assured that you need to fix this or that you need to explain it differently. You have a source of law, you have a source of credit, you have a source of bond that is again credit, you have a source of your own activity, you have a source of toll and so on. They're resources. And this source of 37 billion is one source; it is true that 30.6 billion is foreseen by law and 6.4 from those funds that are supposed to be recovered from Europe for this programme and counted as its own source, the Republic of Slovenia. So it's a budget source and no one else. An obligation, as you specify in the last paragraph, is known what it is, but is a source of credit or a bond. That's not true. As I went to look again when you explained to me earlier what happened to bonds or new loans, you did say that 13,430 million SITs would be foreseen by issuing bonds in the second summer, but you end up saying, "In case the terms of financing by financial loans will be more favourable than financing by issuing bonds, you can replace part of the amount with financial loans". I was asking, how many, what are your intentions? Because if you don't know how you're going to ensure this from any source this year, then I'm afraid that in the time available, you're not going to come up with a guarantee bill if you're going to even negotiate for credit, etc. What exactly are the intentions here? It can happen that you will replace SIT 13,429 million with loans, and it will be, say, one million bonds - or how is this supposed to be planned if we accept the plan? For in the following you have a reverse: in 6, 33 you do not travel to credits, but say, we may go with extra bonds, if there is not enough. That's how this structure feels vague to me because I don't know what it's supposed to mean. Because then you have first to be able to make up for credits and then you have in the second half, "we intend to start the debt procedure in the form of bonds". [[...]] I hope you understand what I'm talking about. Once you say you'll pay off your bonds with loans if it's cheaper, and then you say you'll increase your bonds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you for this debate. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tomaž Vidica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. First, I'd like to answer Mr. Anderlich. So, as far as point 6.1 is concerned, the last paragraph is understood to be in spite of 37 billion. That's interpretation. In fact, I agree with you, but just the interpretation of this sentence is that the starting point is that physical construction should not be affected by resources but will be adapted. In fact, it should be noted that the 2003 plan was implemented at around 108% and that resources had to be adapted there to actual realisation. I answer this statement just so we can write once if there are fewer bonds, there will be more loans if they are more favourable to you. Well, these sentences are in this document due to the fact that there is greater flexibility for Darsa, who, in accordance with the contract with the State, performs financial engineering. I would also like to answer Mr Sok about the proposal to lift ramps or prisons at toll stations. If I cariculate a little bit, it would mean something very similar, as if merchants opened cash registers at the time of the biggest purchases, for example on Saturday morning. Well, that's totally unacceptable. Regarding the level of indebtedness, it has been repeatedly expressed today, that is, the fact that we owe too much to the construction of highways. The national programme, a new one, has shown with fairly accurate, quality calculations that long-term tolls are sufficient to pay for all already hired and in future needed credits. And that's the starting point. This annual plan is 7% higher than the national programme. The fact is that investment transfers are in line with the budget, i.e. earmarks plus cohesion fund funds, and in fact they remain at the expense of a larger share of loans, while bonds are slightly less. However, I stress that this is an accelerated collection of credits, mainly for the section via the Black Kal and the section via the Trojans. Credit agreements for these two sections have been signed a number of years ago. It's about speeding up the drawing of credits, not about additional borrowing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We can conclude a debate with this. Thank you all for your cooperation. The proposed decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 2 p.m. and 25 minutes as we proceed with the work of the National Assembly. I interrupt this agenda item, and by 2 p.m., not at 1.40 p.m. we continue with the 12th item of the agenda. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Firstly, the proposal for a decision on the choice of the audit company for the audit of the accounting statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2001, 2002 and 2003. The proposal for a decision was tabled by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Commission to further explain the draft decision if he wishes. There's no one here. I am moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party gets the floor. No, no, no. Dr. Bajuk is not present, Yuri Malovr Nor, Zoran Gračner not, Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! With regard to the proposal for a decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Party would like to have a response, which has been exposed several times to the parent labour body at the hearing, namely the price difference between the two tenderers. One was offered the price or the requested price of 8 million 800 and the other company was offered 4 million 100. Is this due to an unquality application? And on the other hand, we are interested, given that a small company was chosen, i.e. for 4 million. Will this, of course, result in a different revision, or quality, of content? On this side, I would like to have an answer before the decision is taken by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia, which I regret to see is not at this time. In the National Party, we also estimate that if, in exchange for this lower price, a lower or lower quality report is to be reported, the National Assembly should consider a different choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much. As I have been informed here, the government has nothing to do with this, but only the commission, which is now - there is no representative to give the answers. These were at the same time the views of the parliamentary groups. I am moving on to the debate of Members and Members not to read those who are not here at the moment, Comrade Saša Peca, once again you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you. So since I dropped one of the more important points in the introductory part, at least after our assessment, I would also like to get an answer to the question - what is expected in substance from the audit? And then, have both companies or have both companies received the same required data for carrying out the audit? I propose that, at least until the competent working body is in place, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we postpone the decision-making process. We estimate that the control of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, although for 2001, 2002 and 2003, force is important, especially when it came to the appointment of a new President yesterday. I sincerely hope you'll call the president of the commission to file a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you. We'll try to get the president of the commission. Since time is running out and we have open time to discuss, I ask, does anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're trying to get the president, so we're gonna wait a few more minutes. Procedurally, Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much. It's a bit of an awkward situation, dear colleagues and colleagues. Look, we have before us a proposal for a decision on the selection of the audit firm to revise the financial statements of the Court of Auditors. I fully understand the decisions to which some have the right. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on behalf of my colleagues, I call on the President, who, although he has resigned, nevertheless, given that this decision, or those conclusions, has been made in the past, to submit a report. But if not, I am procedurally proposing an agreement with the Vice-President of this Commission, that we continue to work so that we do not look like a farce and as unserious people in the continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask him to call and ask the President if he wants to, of course, because he is resigning, but I really ask that the leadership agree with the Vice-President to continue the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Well, look, we've been trying to find the president. First, his secretary told him they found him and he came here, but he wasn't here. The secretary general tried to find him, too, but she can't find him. The Vice-President does not wish to make this report, but also for other points of the report, usually if there was no rapporteur, we simply skipped it. Vice-President Marko Diaci, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. That doesn't mean I don't want to report it. I cannot submit it because the Commission has determined who the rapporteur is. He has been designated rapporteur [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] When I actually have the authority to present this report, I can also present it, which is no problem. [[...]] However, this report is also in writing and I think that it is very short and very clear and very clear on top of everything that we know what this is all about. This is a decision on the choice of the audit house, and this is it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My point is, you don't want me to fix it. You're not authorized, okay? There is no answer to the question of Comrade Pečet. Here you go, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u71	President, I suggest you hold this meeting in accordance with the rules of procedure. If there is no one to submit the report, it has happened several times before that the committee presidents did not report to the committees, but there was no problem. This goes on and when the applicants are exhausted, close this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I have just proposed this earlier, and I will thus conclude the general discussion of the proposal for a decision. The proposed decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 2.25 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. And I'm breaking up the agenda. At 2.10 p.m. we continue on the 13th item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u73	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE FUNDS BUDGET REFERRED TO BY THE PARTICULAR POLITICAL PARTIES OF THE 2004 GOVERNMENTAL BUDGET The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives have not applied for further explanation. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body which produced the written report [[you have it in the fabric.]] . We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. None of the applicants would like to present their views, so I will conclude this part of the debate. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want a word? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision and amendments. The proposal for a decision and amendments to the decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 2.25 p.m. That's why I'm breaking this agenda. We will continue the session at 2.25 p.m. when we move to the vote. Thank you for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u74	I'll tell you what [[...]] It's 2:26 p.m., and we're at the 14th item of the agenda. I'm sorry, we're at the 41st item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decision on consent to the 2004 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways. We will come to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall give its consent to the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2004 of 29.3.2004." First of all, I'll politely ask you to check the operation of your voting apparatus. Are they all right, or can we move on to a decision? Okay. We vote on the proposal for a decision. Present 54, 43 for and no one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. The point is closed. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001, 2002 and 2003. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. "For the revision of the financial statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001, 2002 and 2003, a company for auditing and consulting d.o.o. Tržaška 132, Ljubljana." A colleague of mine, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u75	In the Slovenian National Party, we highlighted the dilemma surrounding the choice of the so-called most favourable provider of such services, but of course no reply was given in the context of the debate of the National Assembly. We asked for an answer, perhaps by the President of the Commission, which, according to our assessment, gave an irrevocable derogation yesterday for legitimate reasons. However, we expected, at the very least, that the report would be given in such a case by the Vice-President of the Commission, who claimed that the report could be read. However, it is likely that if we have read the report of the said Commission to all Members and Members of the National Assembly, we may be asked a few questions. So, once again, I will repeat, not that we would like someone in the middle of this forum to read the report to A to Z, but mainly that someone from the leadership, that is to say, the commission mentioned or the president who resigned yesterday - and I, of course, believe that there is a great dilemma, or that the Vice-President has responded to those dilemmas that have been raised. According to our assessment, of course, the calvary with the Court of Auditors, which took place four times by appointment, is continuing; hence, this attitude towards the Court of Auditors, that the National Assembly should accept such material with its left hand. I am afraid, however, that the consequences of today's decision will be precisely because, at least in the context of the National Party's parliamentary group, there is no response and no response in the plenary session has been given to any of the so-called '90s', no matter how many of them were at the given time, we cannot determine whether the choice is positive or negative and what the consequences of such selection will be. Therefore, in the National Party to the proposal, of course, we cannot support and will abstain from voting or press the quorum button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u76	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, we are voting. 58 present, 52 for and none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the level of resources belonging to the individual political party from the budget in 2004. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 52 in, no in. (For the vote was 52. )(Nobody.) The decision is thus concluded on the agenda. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON THE THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LAW CONCERNING THE PERMANENT RESIDENCE OF NETHERLANDS BY THE COUNTRIES OF OTHER COUNTRIES OF OCCUPANT COUNTRIES EVER IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, WHO HAD ON 23.12.1990 AND 25.2.1992 IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA A PERMANENT REJUSTMENT APPROVED. With regard to item 14 of the agenda, I note that the proposal for a third-reading law cannot be considered due to the proposed referendum initiative. In the context of this point, we will consider the proposal for a decision under Article 16 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative which I sent you today for consideration.The proposal for a decision will be addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy. Once we have received the Internal Policy Committee's report, I will proceed with this point and therefore interrupt it. At the 17th A-point of the agenda, we have a defensive proposal for an amendment to the state-level assembly, which is another defence within the framework of a shorter procedure. At its 45th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly suspended the debate on the individual amendments and the articles of the supplementary proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure and decided that the second reading of the Act would continue at that meeting. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 May this year. You probably have a proposal ahead of you. It's three amendments. First of all, the amendment to Article 154 is the proposed Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In the event that this amendment is adopted by the National Assembly, the amendment shall become irrelevant under order number two and three. The other is proposed by the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS. In the event that this amendment is adopted by the National Assembly, the amendment becomes irrelevant under order number three. Please, who wants a word? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u77	The amendment to this Article seeks to implement the provision of Article 11 of the Law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, by which it is possible that a proposal from the Republic of Slovenia's views on matters of the European Union may be proposed or requested for consideration in the National Assembly, including a College of the National Assembly, a Committee on European Affairs and a quarter of Members. We initially discussed our amendment at the previous session. The willingness of other parties to align the text has also been shown to complement the harmonisation. The new amendment proposed by government parties summarises this harmonisation. Thus, given that the two amendments that are being excluded are before us, we withdraw our amendment because we believe that it is essentially summarized in this coordinated second material.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u78	Did I understand correctly that you're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u79	We're getting away, like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u80	The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party withdraws the amendment under order number 1. Anyone want a word on the amendment under order number two? Can we decide on an amendment under order number two? It's up to us to decide. Please, we're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I have a notice to give in such a case. I must point out to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the consideration of this proposal will be taken to supplement the Rules of Procedure if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. We're voting. 62 present, 55 for, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under point 3, we have the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which has become irrelevant in the light of the adoption of the previous amendment. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 154 of the amended Rules of Procedure. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table a new amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. The legislature and the government have not warned me that the Rules of Procedure would be inconsistent for the sake of the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the rules of procedure. There is a previous warning about the quorum of a two-thirds majority. We're voting. Please, we are in the middle of a vote, a two-thirds majority is required. 62 present, 51 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the Rules of Procedure have been adopted and the point has been concluded. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO BE CONSIDERED Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on Access to Information on Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters. The bill was tabled by the government. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. The President is with us. You want a word? No, no, no. Following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, if that is what they want? My friend Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we will support this Convention of Access to Information and Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection on Environmental Matters. We are convinced that the Slovenian public still has problems in the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to obtaining and accessing information of a public nature. This issue is already a matter of principle as a group of Members in the adoption of the law on environmental protection. In fact, the Environmental Protection Act provides that organisations and societies in the field of environmental protection shall be designated by the Minister of the Environment by a decision and shall keep records of these organisations. At that time, we proposed an amendment, somehow in terms of trying to sum up the Aarhus Declaration, that these organisations that have an interest in participating in environmental decisions be organised on the basis of their own statutes and that the decisions on their registration and records lead, as would normally be, to the Ministry of the Interior, not to the Ministry of Environment and Space, because in such a form of organisation there will certainly be a conflict of interest. Today, by this Convention, we are somehow correcting this matter and I think it will be necessary to amend and amend the law on environmental protection in these articles. In fact, this Convention, which we have before us today, says: "Publicity means one or more natural or legal persons and in accordance with the internal legislation or practice of individual countries of their association, organisation or group." This Convention also discusses how the public participates in this and how the legislator, the State or the one who decides, must provide this public with all the information and all the information that this public needs for its work. So, this Convention, in the sense of the debate that we have here with regard to the law on environmental protection, unfortunately again I find that our law on environmental protection is not written in this direction and that, as a result, many have difficulties in obtaining this information. Even more. With us in Slovenia, it can happen that - let me say, for example, the situation in drinking water is not what it should be - it is easy for the Minister to change legislation, prescribe other standards and thus try to satisfy the public or make a state like the government or the ministry imagines. Fortunately, we also have other bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, which then correct and eliminate such errors. And I think that when the public participates better and more equally in these decisions, such decisions will no longer be made by the Government or the institutions in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u82	Colleague Silva Montenegro cancels the debate, and colleague Beumann wants to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u83	Dear Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Today, the National Assembly is considering an extremely important law to ratify the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters, which is more widely known in the public as the Aarhus Convention. It was named after the Danish city of Aarhus, where the fourth Ministerial Conference was held in June 1998 under the title Environment for Europe. At this conference, 35 countries and the European Community signed the first legally binding instrument, which is fully designed to promote the development of participatory democracy. This is mainly about the involvement of non-governmental organisations or civil society in the design of decisions that, in one way or another, interfere with the environment and are important for the preservation of the human and natural environment. The initiative for the adoption of this international document was given by non-governmental organisations that have joined the international coalition of NGOs, whose delegation has directly participated in the drafting of the text of the Convention. Thus, for the first time in history, non-governmental organisations have been recognised as partners in the design and adoption of an international treaty. The Aarhus Convention is based on the three pillars governing the democratic rights of civil society in the field of environmental protection, free access to environmental information, cooperation in environmental decision-making and the provision of legal protection in the exercise of rights from the first two pillars. Virtually all the time since the signing of the declaration, there has been a more or less intensive campaign to ratify the Convention as soon as possible and thus to fully implement it. In doing so, the government decided that appropriate legal support or legal basis should be provided before formal ratification. Last year's adoption of the Act on Access to Public Information and the adoption of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act in March this year also created the legal basis for the full implementation of the Aarhus Convention. When ratifying this extremely important international instrument, it is right to be aware of the consequences of the full implementation of this Convention. The Convention deepens and specifies the right of the public to obtain information on the environment. It guarantees the legal protection of these rights under a court or other extrajudicial authority. It deepens and details the right of the public to participate in decision-making processes when it comes to environmental awareness. Non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment shall be provided with legal protection of their rights or their rights to participate in the issuing procedures authorised to intervene in the environment. The public shall ensure the right to participate in the adoption of programmes and plans relating to the environment. It introduces public participation in the adoption of policies and enforcement rules relating to the environment. Among other things, it commits the State to ensure adequate environmental education and thus directly support public awareness and education, in particular the rights covered by this Convention. Finally, it prohibits any persecution, punishment or harassment of persons exercising their rights under the Convention. By ratifying, the State of Slovenia will increase civil society rights in its efforts to achieve a healthy living environment, while at the same time increasing these rights in the international space as the Convention is applied internationally. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will gladly support the law on the ratification of the Aarhus Convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u84	The representative of the LDS Club was the last to be announced for the presentation of the positions of the groups. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We will vote, so I ask your attention. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present for 46 and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 19. The agenda item provides for the consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance in customs matters. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. 56 present, 48 and no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 20. The agenda item provides for the consideration of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or any other hostile activity causing changes to the environment. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. There is no debate on points and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. 55 present, 52 for and none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 21. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON COOPERATION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON ONE PAGE AND THE FRENCH COMMUNITY IN BELGIUM AND THE VOLONIAN REGION ON THE OTHER PARTIES. There are no announced debaters. The same notice applies as at the previous points so that we can move to the vote. We're voting. 57 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON RATIFICATION OF A TREATY ON OPEN AIRPORTS. The bill was tabled by the government. There are no debaters. It shall apply in the same way as in previous ratifications. We can vote if no one wants to explain it to the vote. We're voting. 58 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Liability and Compensation of Damage in relation to the Transport of Dangerous and Health Harmful Substances by Sea, 1966. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The Committee on Foreign Policy has reported in writing. There are no announced debaters. The amendments were not tabled. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we could move on to a decision. The legislature or the government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent, so we will vote on it. We're voting. 57 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Criminal Procedure Convention on Corruption. The draft law was tabled by the Government. No debaters reported. It is the same as in previous proposals for ratification laws and could move on to a decision if there is no wish to explain the vote. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote, please. 58 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 25. We have a discussion of the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation between Customs Administrations drawn up under Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union. The bill has been tabled by the Government, there are no debates, there is the same notification as in previous laws, and we could go to the vote if no one wants to explain it to the vote. We're moving to the vote. We're making a decision. 59 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 26. We have a discussion of the draft law on the ratification of the Convention under Article C.3 of the Treaty on European Union establishing a European Police Office. The bill was tabled by the Government, there are no discussers, the same notification applies as in previous ratifications. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 56 present, 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 27. We have before us the consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the Protocol drawn up under Article 43 of the Convention on the Establishment of a European Police Authority on the amendment of Article 2 and the Annexes to that Convention. The Government has tabled this proposal, there are no debaters, and the same notification applies as before. Can we get to the vote? Please, we're voting. 56 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. Now we're 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY AND CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF LEGISLATION WITH VERY LONG ADDRESS, PROVISION OF THE TRAINING OF THE CONVENTION ON THE USE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FOR CUSTOMS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE USE OF THE CONVENTION ON THE USE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FOR CUSTOMS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE TREATY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, BETWEEN SOME MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION OF THE PROTOCIAL PROTOLOGY REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE CONTRACTION OF PREVENTION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION'S PREVENTION, This is the title of the proposal for a law on ratification. There are no announced debaters. We can decide on the law. Please, we're voting. This long-titled law has been passed. 56 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] The point is closed. We're 29. Agenda item - This is the draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Establishment of a European Police Office, the Europol Convention and the Europol Protocol on Privileges and Immunities, Members of its Authorities, Deputy Directors and Employees. The law was submitted by the government, there are no debaters. Can we make a decision about the law? Please, we're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on a proposal for a law on ratification. 59 present, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The act has been adopted and the point has been completed. We're moving on to 30. On the basis of Article C.3 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 41(3) of the Europol Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Europol, its members, the Deputy Directors and Europol staff, this is for consideration. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. 58 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 31. We have a discussion on the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol under Article 43(1) of the Convention establishing the European Police Office (Europol Convention) on the amendments to that Convention. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 57 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 32. We have a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol under Article C.3 of the Treaty on the European Union on the grounds of the Convention establishing a European Police Office with a previous ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 58 present, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. Thirty-three. DOCTORS OF THE DAY WE HAVE A CONSIDERATION OF THE PROTOCOL RATIFICATION PROTOCOL PROTOCOL PROTOCOL FROM 1996 TO THE CONVENTION ON MINIMUM NORMATIVES IN THE 1976 TRADE MARARY. Can we make a decision? Please. We're voting. 55 present, 52 for and none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. 34. We have a discussion of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Working Hour of the Seamen and the number of crew members on board, the Convention (Nor NUMBER 180). Can we make a decision? Please. We're voting. 58 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. We move on to the 34th A-point of the agenda - to the consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on Cybercrime and the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cybercrime, which combats the incrimination of racist and xenophobic activities done in information systems. Can we make a decision? Please. We're voting. 54 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're going to the end. At 34.B of the agenda, we have a discussion of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on the amendment of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America in cooperation to prevent the proliferation of weapons of multiple destruction. I don't see a desire to explain my voice, so we'll move on to a decision. We're voting. 55 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and this point has been concluded. That means we're done with the decisions today. I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly tomorrow at ten o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u85	If you'll excuse me? An urgent meeting of the Internal Policy Committee shall be convened one hour after the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u86	At 4 p.m. - meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u87	In the big salon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u88	At 4:00?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-20-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you.
