ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: only Bevk from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Michael Brejc, Janez Drobnič until 1 p.m., Ferri Horvat, Miran Jerič, Milan Kopušar, Dorian Maršič, Alojz Peterle for the start of the meeting and Igor Štemberger from 1 p.m. Between you and me, I welcome Dr. Virant's Secretary of State. We're moving to 11. POINT OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LOVES OF THE MISSIONS FROM THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. I would like to invite Dr. Greg Virant, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament was adopted relatively early in October 2002 among the first accessions. And at that time, of course, not all the parameters of our entry into the European Union have yet been known, especially the date of our entry. And the regime of the so-called temporary representation in the European Parliament, that is, the regime from the moment of entry to the first regular elections in the European Parliament. The resolution of this transitional period, in particular the amendment of the electoral law to the European Parliament before you, is intended. The law solves the question of temporary representation or temporary representation or temporary members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament by providing, in accordance with the Treaty of Accession, that the National Assembly appoints temporary Members to the European Parliament on a proposal from the groups of Members, in principle of proportionality, in view of their share of mandates in the entire number of mandates obtained in the 2000 elections. The law also excludes the principle of incompatibility for temporary Members, i.e. the incompatibilities between the function of a Member of the National Assembly and the function of a Member of the European Parliament. For by definition, temporary Members in the European Parliament will be Members of the National Assembly. In doing so, the bill deals with some other issues, such as the financing of the electoral campaign. The amendment makes it possible for the electoral campaign to be financed in the European Parliament also from abroad, more precisely from the Member States of the European Union, from natural legal persons from the Member States of the European Union, of course, under the same restrictions as those applicable to the financing of political parties under the Political Parties Act. The law also addresses the issue of equal opportunities between women and men, i.e. the issues of so-called women's quotas. A few words about that. The government has proposed a solution whereby political parties, as well as electoral groups, should respect the principle of proportionality when drawing up candidate lists. So it was a provision that was a principle of a more declaratory nature. Then, in the course of the discussion on the working body, there were some amendments that had been tabled. The legislative and legal service has also drawn attention to the issue of these so-called women's quotas. The situation is, therefore, this: the basic government proposal was to incorporate the principle of proportionality in the compilation of candidate lists. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out the constitutional dispute over so-called women's quotas in terms of equality before the law. She pointed out that there were constitutional amendments to Article 44 of the Constitution just because so-called women's quotas were available. The amendments were tabled and the Internal Policy Committee supported the coalition amendment, which says that each list should contain at least 40% of the candidates or candidates of both sexes, with at least one candidate or one representative of both sexes in the upper half of the list. I would also draw attention to the issue of incompatibility after regular elections to the European Parliament. Here the government has proposed a solution to exclude incompatibilities for those who will also be elected to the European Parliament in regular elections, i.e. elected to the European Parliament in the June elections. And the government has proposed that, in the event that any member of the national assembly is elected to the European Parliament, both functions may be carried out until the expiry of his duties as a member of the national assembly, for very practical reasons: in order not to be necessary for a relatively short period in which a possible meeting of the national assembly will be held [[There may not be a meeting of the National Assembly at all]] , looking for alternate candidates. At the initiative of Mr Anderlic, the Committee on Internal Policy adopted the amendment, which deleted this solution and therefore introduced incompatibility for that period. Once again, the basic proposal has been different, and we still believe that it is a better and more practical solution, so that non-compatibilities are not applied for that period. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Petan, to present the Committee's report. That's how it was supposed to be, but Mr. Petan is not. We are therefore continuing with the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are adopting a new law on the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament after a reduced procedure because it is less difficult to comply with the Treaty of Accession of Slovenia to the European Union. At the time of the drafting and adoption of the law in 2002, not all the conditions for entry into the European Union have yet been known until the regular elections in the European Parliament. The reasons for amending and supplementing the law shall relate to the arrangements for the participation and participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament during the transitional period from accession, from 1.5. to the European Parliament's constitutional meeting in July. It is therefore a matter of representatives appointed by the domestic Parliament of its members in accordance with the procedure laid down by the State and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, of the irreconcilability of the function of a Member in the European Parliament with the function of a Member in the national Parliament, of the arrangements for the financing of an electoral campaign, with provisions allowing for the acquisition of funds for elections to the European Parliament also from abroad, of representation of women and men in accordance with the principle of proportionality and of certain other minor changes. With regard to the incompatibilities of the function of a Member in the European Parliament with the function of a Member in the national Parliament, we agree with the proposed amendment of colleague Anderlic to delete Article 6. Incompatibilities should therefore apply to Members who will run for elections for the European Parliament and who have been elected and who will be given a full mandate, which is not necessary for exceptions to be made. With regard to the presence of both sexes on the candidate lists for the European Parliament elections, both proposals in the form of amendments are interesting. Thus, the first, which states that no sex shall be represented by less than 40% on the candidate list, with at least one candidate of each sex being included in the upper half of the list, as well as another, representing the view that the representation of both sexes should be ensured on each of the proposed lists, with at least one quarter of all proposed, rounded up. As we know, in the process of amending Article 43 of the Constitution, it is in the sense that the law establishes measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for office, and therefore, pending the adoption of the proposed constitutional amendment, the legal regulation of the structure of the ballots by sex can be constitutionally controversial, as it constitutes an act of equality in electoral law. Women are listed only because women are of no quality. In addition to this in our client, we have no problems in New Slovenia. Although there are no constitutional changes and there is no law, we have not only taken into account quotas but even the principle of retention. And that's the best we can do. We suggest you copy us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone, including Mr. Secretary of State! As of 1 May of this year, the Republic of Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union. Its Members and Members, who now participate as observers in the European Parliament, will become full members of the European Parliament until the new elections. It will also gain the right to participate for the first time in its history as an independent and independent country, a full member of the family of democratic European countries, in general and direct elections, in which we will elect Members and Members to the European Parliament at the same time throughout the European Union. Since all procedures and dates of admission to the European Union were not yet known at the time of the adoption of the law, certain amendments and additions to the applicable law are necessary. We support all the major changes and additions proposed by the Government in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We agree that it is most rational that, between 1 May and the elections to the European Parliament, which will be held in Slovenia on 13 June 2004, the role of elected Members and Members of the European Parliament are played by the observers who have been appointed in this role by the National Assembly in accordance with the current party composition of the National Assembly. We agree to complement the chapter on the acquisition of funds for the electoral campaign in the European Parliament with the possibility of obtaining funds from the contributions of citizens of the Member States of the Union and legal persons of private law from those countries. As we join the European Union, we must become accustomed to becoming an integral part of Europe also with regard to cooperation with the political parties of these countries. The policy of these parties and their respective Member clubs also depends on the policy of the European Parliament; it is not an illusion that this is not the case. And in the United List of Social Democrats, we are pleased to participate in the family of social and socialist parties, which devote much more and more attention to equality of work and capital, social partnership, full employment, social justice and solidarity, gender equality, minority rights and human rights in general than many other parliamentary groups. In particular, we welcome the willingness of most parliamentary parties to finally implement a policy of equal opportunities for both sexes in electoral legislation in Slovenia. This is also European policy and European practice. The provisions on this are the explicit content of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. The state of participation of women in political life in Slovenia is worrying, not only in the National Assembly, even in municipal and municipal councils, but also among elected mayors and mayors. In short, wherever policy is drawn up and public affairs are decided. And since we have also very much out of decision-making in recent years, civil spheres and interest associations, living in illusion, to fill all this gap with political parties, it is even more important for women to participate more equally in politics. If we are to be European, we must also apply these principles. In doing so, I should like to point out that the text prepared cannot be considered and understood as a privilege for any of the sexes. Therefore, the objections that such acknowledgments before the relevant changes to the Constitution may be questionable, in my firm opinion, are not justified. Both sexes have full equality in the proposed solutions. For the candidate list to be valid there must be at least 40% of each gender, and on the basis of the amendments submitted, the question for those lists with one or three candidates has also been resolved. We believe that it is right to accept such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues and government representatives! We have very carefully examined the proposal in the parliamentary group and believe that it is essential that we adopt a law with certain amendments to the elections on 13 June this year to the European Parliament. However, we see certain problems in the Group of Members. The first problem that we are told is what the Constitution stipulates. The Constitution establishes gender equality. Why am I saying this? 40% of the women's quota by the fact that in the first half there is also a woman's occupation. But let us look at a little fact and practice. What if there is a list, I'm not talking about the parties, I'm talking about lists that are either running for the European Parliament, their MPs or their MPs, if there's only two? There's a simple calculation. Two is 40%, so it must be one of this sex, the other of the sex. What if there's three of them? What if there's five of them? How are we gonna count those odds there? On the other hand, we have received a comment on the thinking of our legal-legislative service, whether the whole matter is so established, even if we are talking on the other hand about gender equality. Gender equality is mirrored and definitively regulated by an agreement between the sexes to the extent that they think it would be best for a certain list. I'm talking mostly about lists, because there are also client lists. We in the parties can decide in one way or another what practice or practicality and experience will dictate. If they place the list in such a way that those list holders and candidates on the list obtain as many votes as possible in order to reach the threshold and obtain any number of mandates for the European Parliament. This raises the basic question of how we will resolve these matters, because we have our statutes, where it is laid down, and I think that we will be able to take due account of our statutes that speak for elections to municipal, municipal councils, to the National Assembly and to take due account of these elections to the European Parliament. It is and remains that this is a new situation and we are very sorry that just before the 12th we have to deal with some other issues that are still in our minds, because they can be constitutionally disputed, as I said, a special emphasis is needed, but since this is a reduced process, we will have to decide one way or another. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law with all solutions, as proposed. They were presented by the Secretary of State and I would not repeat them. I would also like to say that, in the framework of the coalition, we as a parliamentary group are co-signatories of the amendments to the two articles that complement the articles so that no sex on the candidate list can be represented by less than 40% and that at least one candidate of each sex must be included in the upper half of the list. We also know another amendment proposed by Dr. Brace's colleague. In our view, today's decision by the National Assembly is a classic decision that we can say is a European decision and we are confident that it will receive the necessary majority. But since this place, respected colleagues and colleagues, has to say the following or to ask whether today's decision by the National Assembly will allow voters and voters to elect at least one more woman in the European Parliament in this year's European elections than they would otherwise. We don't think so. I personally, also as President of the Slovenian People's Party, respect women's quotas. I respect the principle of restraint, I respect the action plans at the party's last congress. I think we were the first party in Slovenia, we adopted it, an action plan, because the law in force somehow requires political parties to do so. All of this is right that we have and support. But the focus is somewhere else, the focus is on the inner dynamics of political parties. It all begins and ends in a political culture and internal democracy of a political party. I work very well with the vice-president of the party. In the parliamentary group, we ourselves have experienced parliamentary cats and, of course, we would be very welcome and missed by some experienced parliamentarians. But the problem is how political parties work. How established internal democracy is, how women feel in political parties. We have heard that the presidential candidate in the last elections, who came in the second round and surprised the Slovenian political public, was disappointed, re-registered and said that this is not how politics is done and is running for a very responsible position within the framework of the European institutions in the field of justice. Here it is necessary to say that the relatively cruel, direct, ungrateful work in politics is exactly the same as that of women and men. But, in a way, it's a shame that she made up her mind. In the government we have two ministers, just two, none of these two, if I am not mistaken, three ministers, that is, according to the Minister for Regional Policy, so without a license, there is also a minister, unfortunately none of these three, apparently, will be the holder of the list for the European Parliament. We have heard that a forum is being established in these days. I've been looking at the pictures today, gentlemen themselves, the gentlemen of the age have gone to a meeting, no lady has been seen. That is to say, today's solutions, which are proposed, will receive our support, but then it begins within the political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have before us elections to the European Parliament and it is therefore important that we adopt a proposal for a law amending the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament in due time and with a suitable consensus. This is an important political issue. It is also a prestigious role in Slovenia, which has finally elected the city to the Inter-Twenty European countries, which will form the future European Union. Some important political issues emerged when the law was considered. One is the equal representation of the sexes on the candidate lists. The European Union, the Council of Europe, as well as non-governmental organisations, encourage the adoption of measures to ensure equal representation in their respective functions. Even in addressing this law, all political parties have shown that they are aware of the problems of under-representation of women in politics and that a common step has been created, even before the principle of equal representation has been introduced into the Constitution, and that this must be done. The representation of women in politics is too low in Slovenia, mainly due to the attitude of the ruling policy towards the status of women in our society. In fact, in our society, women's social and economic issues, their obligations to take care of their families are not addressed in such a way as to enable women to enter politics more often and more freely. This is actually a political culture issue in our country, and that is why we have come to this law with an amendment to encourage more equal representation of women in elections to the European Parliament. Our proposal to be at least one quarter of the candidates is said to be women or men is, in our view, the most consistent and most appropriate in the current political situation in this area in Slovenia. Of course, the majority of the government's parties have responded with their proposal, which, given the current state of affairs in Slovenia, is excessive and, in our opinion, rather unconsistent. In such a form as has now been adopted, in our view, it will not provide greater emancipation for women in the European Parliament; it is, as I have already mentioned, primarily for the daily effects of this proposal. We also agree in the party that the financing of the electoral campaign should be arranged in accordance with the fact that we are members of the European Union and that it is possible to have legal funding from abroad, these countries are said to be. On the issue of incompatibility, however, I must say that in our party we can understand arguments, such as those of the government, which, for some practical reasons, proposes or considers that the most wise thing to do is to rule out non-conformity to the national elections. The proposal voted on by the Committee also has its positive side again and is argued that we will only agree on a solution that will somehow have majority support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Good afternoon to my colleagues and to my colleagues and to the representative of the government, my respectable colleague! In the Slovenian National Party, as you have seen, we have also tabled amendments to certain articles of this Act, but if we go from better to less good, I have not told the bad. In the Slovenian National Party, we support in particular the text of Article 1 which discusses the possibility of financing an electoral campaign for the European Parliament from abroad, especially because it is very precisely completed and is, in fact, summarised by the Finnish model. It means that it is very good, in our opinion, that it can be financed from citizens' contributions, not from countries' contributions, which is very good, and also from legal persons of private law alone, but not from public law. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to draw attention to the three articles in which we have tabled two of these amendments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that Articles 3 and 4 of this Act and the proposals formulated by the Liberal Democracy, on the one hand, and the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the other, are constitutionally controversial, the content of Articles 3 and 4 is constitutionally controversial. The legislative and legal service has also proposed that, as its acceptances of the amendment with the content provided by the Slovenian National Party, Articles 3 and 4 should be deleted. Despite the fact that the mother body of such amendments has not accepted them, we have tabled them in the Slovenian National Party and I suggest that you examine them carefully and take into account them, because what can happen if any of us Members of Parliament and Members submit a proposal for a constitutional review to the Constitutional Court and what can happen if we are delayed in the elections to the European Parliament. I'm saying this could happen. We also advocate these two amendments in the Slovenian National Party because we estimate that the law on equal opportunities itself is a strong enough basis, and in particular we estimate that it is the determination of how many men and how many women, or how many women you want, and how many men should be on the candidate list, in fact, the matter of judging each political party for itself. Those who know and respect the role, both women and men, will take this into account if the content of the law is defined in one way or another. Once again, we would like to point out seriously in the Slovenian National Party that a request for a constitutional opinion can arise and that what can happen, as the legislature says, will be judged by the Constitutional Court that the contents of these two articles are constitutionally controversial. We also assess and believe in the Slovenian National Party, I refer to the amendment to Article 6, that we must do as the law does. It means that when elections are held in the European Parliament, the rule of irreconcilability of functions must enter into force. We could ask ourselves about rationality, irrationality, time delays and so on, but no, the rules of the game, respected colleagues and colleagues, are clear and we ask all of you and us to respect these rules of the game as well. When, of our kind, seven Members are elected to the European Parliament, that moment must end the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly. And we know what the rules are, who will then occupy their cities until the fall elections. Please respect the rules of the game regardless of the time limits. Finally, let me say that in the Slovenian National Party we only regret one thing: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Unfortunately, Slovenia has only seven Members in the European Parliament. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 25.2.2004. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the United Social Democrats Group to this article are therefore tabled under Article 3. I am opening a debate on this article and on the two amendments. My word, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In fact, I will also link the debate to paragraphs 3, 4 because it is a related issue. Article 3 which speaks of the composition of the candidate lists has three amendments in the light of measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run in the European elections. I can say that the first, which is hard and comes from the SNS, is the more modest one coming from the SDS, and the coordinating one coming from the signatures of the coalition parties of the partners. If we supported the deletion of solutions for gender equality, as proposed by the SNS, the European Union would also be appreciably concerned by domestic advocates of politically correct gender representation. However, given the rejection of the national party's attitude towards Europe and also towards the entry of women into politics, I see this amendment as a possible challenge or a way to question the European elections in general. If we had supported the SDS amendment, we would have come to a formal level, I fear, a lack of consistency that our legal service can draw attention to. The proposal does not cover all disputed options, which would also occur at theoretical level if the leaves were made up of a smaller number or one, two candidates, for example, because we know that the law does not refer to the upper limit on the limitations of candidate lists. But that's not even the biggest problem. More importantly, with the modest solution advocated by the SDS or the other amendment, we would certainly lose almost all chance of Slovenia coming to the European Parliament with at least some representative of the women's sex. Of course, we wonder why this is important, why we are even implementing positive discrimination and such emergency measures and this response can to a large extent, although perhaps even with a problem at the moment, answers those who are more often in Europe or Brussels, because we are now the only country in Estonia and Malta that does not have women's gender representatives in our Member State, and especially extreme fears that with future elections, we will break a quota that currently stands at more than 30%, of course with the help of those countries that provide it with a large percentage, from Belgium, 40, Finland 44, Sweden 45, Germany 38, etc. However, if we leave the principles of the declaration and the EU's position, regardless of what they have in many ways helped to move in the field of equal opportunities in this mandate, even in Slovenia, in fact, if I take into account and list from the adoption of the law equal opportunities to change the initiatives to change the constitution and to be more open to debate and more sensitive to these issues, it is, and not only the opposition parties, but it is still necessary to support the amendments that go into the meaning of the solution given to the committee. Of course, the government says and warns of constitutional dispute. It is true that the scenario, as envisaged, is that the initiative taken two years ago to amend the Constitution and that it is possible to eliminate the political positive equality cited by the Constitution with the possibility of implementing individual measures in terms of positive discrimination. Of course, this change will take place in one month. We know that it has received a high consensus, 80% of the members and members of Parliament have given an initiative, and the expert committee has also given its support, and it appears that this change is to take place. The change was also based on the experience we know in France, when the law that talked about the delay first changed, by the way, and also on the fact that the list is unconstitutional if it does not ensure these principles, it was judged. As a result, in France, later in Belgium, Portugal, Italy and now, I hope that in Slovenia, too, there will be a change of constitution with such positive measures. I think that even those theoretical questions about possible dispute will be no longer questionable if the amendments to the Constitution are covered by a March review and the adoption of this law in this direction. I therefore propose to support the third coalition amendment, which in fact removes the last obstacle raised by the legal service, in the event that the list would be made up of only three candidates and this mathematics would not have emerged within 40%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The three of you have made your statement, in the following order: Mrs Potrata, Mr Pece and Mr Jakič. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State! For the third time, I am going to challenge your position on constitutional dispute with the provision we have set out in the amended proposal for a law on parliamentary elections to the European Parliament. However, since it was already in the position of the Group of Members that we are looking at the alleged constitutional dispute in the United List, allow me to identify only up to the three amendments that are before us. I'm only talking about amendments to 3. I could do the same under Article 4. I will only support the third amendment, which specifies the listing more precisely in cases where it has no more than one or three names. Of course, it should be recalled once again that the ranking of candidates and candidates per list by system of restraints, regardless of the number on the list of listed names, would be the simplest. That the United List of Social Democrats for its proposal, therefore, has not been supported by the initiative to open Articles 15 and 16. The consensus reached at least 40% of the representation of each sex should therefore be supplemented in order to be feasible for three names on the list or for only one. That we women are under a critical mass of representation in politics and also everywhere where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia make important decisions is a well-known and statistically verifiable fact. The experience of European countries shows that there will be no more women without positive measures. However, their numerical presence in representative and legislative bodies is an important factor, as it is only in reality that allows for effective decision-making. This should, according to the findings, exceed the critical mass, which is at least 30% representation. That is why I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In particular, I am opposed to the first amendment proposing the deletion of Article 3, which would thus vote against the basic initiative of the United List of Social Democrats, which required the drafter of the law to take account of the integration of the principle of equal opportunities even when amendments to the electoral law into the European Parliament. This has followed the recommendation of the European Union and the Council of Europe that we, in principle, support the generally recognised value of all democratic societies be strengthened by measures. The story with delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe should sober us, not only as a whole, but also all those who form public opinion. It is not possible to imagine that the interests of the majority of the population will indeed be realized without its equal representation. In time, however, it may take the realization that women’s participation in decision - making is necessary and beneficial, not only for them, but for society as a whole. It is also one of the forms of overcoming democratic deficits, and it will be overcome by the instigation that women are in politics only because they are women, and not because they are able to participate in decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u20	Basically, it was not my intention to speak around these amendments, but I think that the shift in this national council is just around women's quotas. My colleague, Bogdan Barovic, drew attention to the opinion of the legislative and legal service in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary group, that is, the opinion that this national assembly always takes into account or at least makes a thorough consideration of. Today, of course, you reject the theory of legal and legal service. On the other hand, I think it is much more important when we talk about the representation of both sexes, we could also talk about the representation of different age groups and the determination of the percentage of individuals, at least on the basis of age, at least on the basis of education, possibly on the basis of a particular profession. In short, there are many of these segments which could be referred to as not having their representatives in a given body. But this kind of regulation is, of course, irrelevant in practice, because the fact is that we can write a lot of things in the law, and another is the fact that political parties later do. And it is right around the electoral law, either to the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia or to the European Parliament, that is, of course, the question of the elective candidates and the insufferable candidates. To the extent that the parties have real purposes, as indicated by the speakers before me, no one in this country can prevent you from placing a candidate in the first, second and third places, which in your cases is an elective place for a European Member or Member of Parliament. But of course, as long as you're only playing this game publicly and talking about this kind of need, while you're putting candidates first with your support, there's no other way to bluff. However, I think that the Liberal Democracy has had this experience before the last national elections, when you even set quota rules in one of your authorities and then changed those rules a few months before these elections. Because you've seen that you've all been too greedy together to sit in this House. So let the customers arrange whatever they want. To play this imaginary game today about how someone wants equal representation and the like, while in your pre-candidate or registration procedures there are big words - colleague Jakič, please, if you calm down, thank you - while when you put candidates in line, you do not take this into account, because you all know what are the eligible candidates and do not. I will believe in your words only when a woman comes first in the list of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. This will mean that you have something to do with it. All the rest, gentlemen, yes, but it's a hoax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. See, if he were a chauvinist hypocrite, he would be quiet at this point and would, of course, quietly oppose the women's quota and thereby increase his chances of election to the European Parliament on the LDS list. However, since I am a proponent of equal opportunities and positive discrimination, I will in fact support solutions that allow more women to run on the lists. Here, of course, some go into my client's decisions and I would therefore ask them to deal with their client. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has, in fact, shown in principle support for these positive measures and, if you want to, finally, even in the city of Ljubljana, even for candidates for the functions of city councilors and councilors, it is a principle of fastening and therefore 50:50 representations in the city world. But I wanted to actually discuss this quota, because I feel like the head of a delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in fact, in some way in a difficult situation. As you know, and Mrs Potrata has mentioned this, we are one of the few among the 45 countries of the Council of Europe that do not have women in our delegation. Of course, I have already held a round of negotiations as the head of the delegation, and today I have invited the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the members of the delegation to consider what to do. However, I think we are so civilized that we will solve this problem. And I also hope that there is no party in the Republic of Slovenia who could actually take advantage of the possibility of a constitutional dispute that Mr Barovic spoke about today to defend that this law is contrary to the equality of electoral law. Of course, I also hope that the 44th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for equal representation or proportional representation of women or the opposite sex in public life and in the conduct of public affairs, will go smoothly through. That is why I will support the amendment, which speaks of 40% representation, and, of course, I also expect the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to include as many women as possible on its candidate list. I've already created a picture of what this candidate list is supposed to look like. And if this candidate list is what I imagined, it will contain 40% of the women and one of them will be represented in the first half or in the so-called elective place. Once again, I speak in some way against my candidacy, but I am aware that this principle must be respected. And it seems to me that the password, which is able to detect, for example, with the SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party, that a woman needs to be sent as a stove, is no longer sustainable. Even in Switzerland, by the 1970s, they thought that a woman was not supposed to have an election right, and they made a mistake and, thank God, later changed their legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u24	Personally, I began to pursue this informal debate with a little smile. Look, Slovenia already has observers today. You have already had your representatives in the European Parliament in all the parties, except for the Youth Party, the National Party and DeSUS, under the guise of observers in the European Parliament, but none of you, not colleague Jakič, have remained in the Liberal Democracy or the United List after all, and you have not put women in this place in the People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party. [[...]] Even though it wasn't necessary for the election, we'd just trade. But to us, which is so much for women's quotas - yes, so why didn't you do it? We could already have this 40 % standard fulfilled today and we would have three MEPs in the European Parliament. But in the Liberal Democracy, you only set men up. It's not another question of principle. And if you want to pursue the goal of principle, everything depends on where you put the candidates. But we all know what the elective cities are and what they don't. And very funny, in my opinion, even the demeanor will see later your candidate lists, where the fifth, sixth and seventh cities will occupy women, very funny. And in my opinion, this kind of diction is purely in the laugh of gender division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I need to find out when I hear this, that we do not actually have this problem in New Slovenia. Even though the law has not been passed, we simply do not have this problem and we have solved it and I will repeat it again. So all those you want to force women into politics are forgetting something. If you want to do this, then you have to change a lot of other things first. Above all, in a job where women work and are also mothers at the same time, these women will be able to do so. Otherwise, this debate reminds me of something, I don't know, emancipation in Russia when women were hired for emancipation on railways and mines. Well, that's what he's been laughing at and loathing the whole world. And they said it was an emancipation. You can't force yourself, and if there's no interest in forcing a woman to run, especially if she doesn't see the possibility that circumstances will allow it. By law alone, this is, of course, a complete nonsense, and I am not even starting to believe that this is actually an unconstitutional act. If the client wants what you talk about most in ruling parties, then I suggest you do it. We'll be on our list after this word invention, to call it "twirl," and I don't know if it's some kind of clinch, but we'll put three ladies on our list. And there was no problem getting them, and there was no problem going to run for the national elections, even though we were a party, as you know, two months before the elections. We have applied with women and the result is that today we have 25% of women in our ranks. So by then, without this being legal, we were thinking about the quota. And if you're talking about the demands of the Council of Europe, then the easiest thing to do is to arrange it in the biggest client, who also has the greatest responsibility. You have the most Members and you can send a woman, as you could of course send 3 observers to Brussels. Well, you'd be the easiest to do, and by that time, you'd have shown that gesture and sent one out of three, woman. Here you just talk and say, if you were a chauvinist, you'd be silent and working for yourself, because you know, one thing to say, one thing to do, the other to think, that's even more perverse. It just needs to be done. If you don't accept this law, I won't oppose it. I will vote for it. But I think it's bullshit, unnecessary nonsense. Because law enforcement and forcing someone to do something if he doesn't want it, that's the worst thing that's possible. Of course, there can be no result from this and this is the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else? Anyone else want to talk about these three amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] So can I close the debate? Yes, you can. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 3 and the three amendments to this Article and open the debate on Article 4 and the amendments of the same motioners as Article 3 as Article 4, Slovenian national parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u28	As I mentioned earlier, it's a related problem. For this reason, I will not restate the need to support the third amendment, which closes another dilemma in this article. However, I must point out that the debate that was opened under this Article is - of course, gentlemen have already left their representative only here from the SNS - it is spinning as if this were any problem, a problem of political inadequacy regarding sex in the Slovenian space, as if it were an LDS problem. LDS has these problems solved. The Statute shall record the percentage required for any application to any authority, both at the national level and at its internal level. That's not an LDS problem. The sub-representation of women in politics is a problem of Slovenian society, and, as I have said before, I am pleased that this problem has recently been more active, more patient and certainly more constructively resolved, and not only on one side of the political options. And in fact, it answers only one dilemma that raises questions about democracy, in which half or even more people are excluded from politics. And it's just a measure that cures these kinds of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So I didn't really mean to talk about it, but you're having a little bit of fun with this case, which is serious. I'll admit it. But I mean, this talk about some quotas, about justice, about honesty and equal representation already reminds me of some sort of Latvian language. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you think we're going to have this kind of law, with a quota of 40%, even if you write 60, even if you write 100 in marriage, that we're going to contribute to the equality of the second sex, we're wrong, we're going to blind ourselves, even though we think that's the first step, we're going to blind ourselves. That's not true. It is certain that more women will only come into this area if the situation of a woman in society in general is fully resolved. Everything else is unrelated, it's talk, it's bullshit, it's like we used to do when we said it, and now the system doesn't "slept" us, and we're going to change the law and things will be better. She wasn't any better. Look what it's like with women today. In those areas where the most employed women are in the textile and leather industries, the country is making a fool of these companies, from these industries. They have minimum wages, and they don't even get paid. And when they turn to any state institution, they wait five or ten years at a time, while it's a matter of obsolescence. It's a joke from women that we understand. And this speech that we're going to have with some law - because I don't judge anyone that we understand and I don't replicate it to anyone, but I can think about it in my own way when we accept it - we're not going to do it. Let us first arrange for the position of a woman in society, accept or take note of the situation of women today, and then re-imagin ourselves, since the situation is probably perfectly normal if we look at women's professions if we want to. Because, on the other hand, if we are talking so much about equality, we will have to ask ourselves here, in the National Assembly, when we confirm, I don't know, the judges themselves in the courts, what about now, or now we will demand men's quotas - stupidity. So it's not that simple, it's not that simple, and it can't be solved in this way. In addition, allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, if this means so much to us to achieve equality, and at least where we have the opportunity to decide to give women a vote, we have not done so. We had presidential elections - yes, it was a woman, but it wasn't the right color, we heard that in this House. And that's why I stopped by and said the word that I used, "flight" -- well, maybe it was a little tough, but anyway. There was an opportunity, we had a candidate who showed up, but we didn't vote because it wasn't the right color. It's not all about having quotas, it's not all about colors we have to look out for. Dearly beloved, then we must decide whether it is in principle that we have more women, or whether it is another arrangement. Then we find out that today we said a lot of things that might have been superfluous. Well, of course, we have the right to say all of this, I do not object to anyone not to talk, of course you can; but in general, if we are talking about content. And once again, we're not going to solve this 40% quota. I think that the amendment made by our party, the SDS, is much more realistic because it can also be used analogous to the national elections. But that's real, that's real. This number is 40% not real for the national elections. And I wonder if there would be such a debate if we would also use this model there; we will see, well, maybe let us be surprised. Thank you very much. I'll tell you again that I haven't replicated to anyone because I'm not restricting anyone's right to say what he thinks, just like I said myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you very much. It's not a replica. It's a debate. Let me just say the following. Each of us has the right to an opinion, and everyone can say it, but of course his opinion, especially the way he says it, shows his conviction and his attitude to the problem, and we will be able to assess it, and those who listen will be able to assess it. Metati all in the same basket is, of course, a big nonsense, to say that those who advocate definitions in this law do not realize that this is a small part of the problem and that, of course, much more of the problem can anything related to the situation of women in the family, at work, with the entry into work, with its inequality, with the abuses that are taking place - we know all this, but we are not solving it today; today we are solving one of the facts how to ensure a small contribution to women's greater participation in politics. And if anyone thinks that it is nice, that we have at least three times less participation than the average in Europe - or about three times - as it relates to the average of countries in the European Community and that we can be equal, think otherwise than I think. That is why I say: nothing will be resolved, but it will be an important contribution to women coming on the list, deciding whether or not they will be elected on the list, but always from voters. And whoever doesn't understand it would say that he doesn't understand the basis that we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u34	I apologize, but the system of elections we have for the local community, or as envisaged for the European Parliament, is not in the hands of the electorate, but is, as a rule, indeed, in the hands of the constituents of the list. The political parties that make up the lists shall determine which candidates will come to such an institution of the European Parliament. Therefore, to say that we have made or that we will take a step forward only when the "women" are also included - because I do not separate them personally, for me we are all the same and, of course, this seems completely unnecessary - but to say that we will take this step forward because they will only run, while political parties will not put them in elected places, of course it is absurd. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As no one wants to say another word, I conclude the debate on Article 4 and move on to the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have tabled this amendment with a single wish to give colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members the opportunity to re-evaluate whether, for many practical reasons, it would be possible to adopt a proposal that the government has put into the procedure of a prepared law. We believe that the government proposal was that the provisions on the incompatibility of a Member in the European Parliament with a function in the National Assembly should not apply to Members who are now serving as Members of Parliament and may be elected to the European Parliament on 13 June. This proposal was deleted after the amendment in the home labour body when the argument was right, but I suggest we reconsider. See, this solution in the law would mean that in this case there will certainly be no breach of any principles on non-compatibilities, since both functions will not be carried out at the same time. Anyone who claims otherwise, I think he's saying something that practice will show that it won't be true. For incompatibilities do not occur on the date of election, with 13 June, but only on the day of taking office in the European Parliament; according to current information when this occurs in July or the second half of July. This is expected to be the last time that we will hold a parliamentary holiday before or before, in my opinion, the last meeting in July, because with July 15th, parliamentary holidays - probably still apply and because this year's national elections should be in early October - I would say that the provisions of the electoral law, unless we change them - I hope that the meetings of the State Assembly in September will fall in the 25-day electoral campaign, which we all find in the light of the practice so far, that it is not particularly meaningful and beneficial. It can therefore happen because procedures are needed and it is time for the alternate Member to arrive, that we may also have one, two, three Members less for a while. I am not talking about this being a great tragedy, it is not a great tragedy, given that we will not perform important functions, we will do this with the 89th or 87th Members and Members of Parliament. All I'm talking about is that I think it would be possible to take the proposed solution so that it would be more practical, that it would not be possible to talk about breaking up some fundamental relationship. Finally, it seems to me that it would be better than doing this to simply accept this fact and allow that in the summer when there is no session and in the fact that, practically after the content, there can be no incompatibility and conflict, this proposal, which the Government has proposed in the basic text, can also be accepted with the amendment that we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. First I give Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u38	I think it's a real shame to lose words about this amendment, because it's a very clear thing, only one voice got that conviction at the board meeting, according to my behaviour. And, of course, it's amazing that before that, there were warnings before the government put it into law, that that's just the way it is, it's either to accept the principles or not. But we would obviously have something else like it used to be, but we'll do a little differently than we'll do the general principle in Europe and the association we're actually going to. There is no problem with some things being incompatible, and it would be compatible. For the first time, it can be expected that MEPs and MPs will run for the European Parliament and, of course, also in this context, it is possible to understand that whoever is elected can be the next one from a list on which the candidates were together and then did not come to Parliament, leave the city and it will complete the mandate. There is no need for someone to sit in two chairs to show how the National Assembly loses its meaning, how much does it matter what you do: when you have time, you come to the National Assembly, or else you perform other tasks. This seems to me that the National Assembly is not encouraging, and even after all, all those who have run on the lists must be given the chance that if someone can no longer perform this function in order for another to come. It seems quite right to me, but most importantly, it seems to me that this is in some way a practical position here as a principle of enforcement. I think this is really about the things we should be taking, just as all the countries we join on 1 May have taken. It was said at a committee meeting that we would have to look for Members and Members and so on - at a committee meeting, that is. There's nothing to look for. The list of all candidates who have been nominated and have not been elected has not been given seats in Parliament, is known and up to 88 is quite clear and I think that this can be done in this case, as in many cases we have replaced Members when they either went to the government or went to the ambassadorial waters or elsewhere to other services. Even very quickly, this can happen, even within a few days, as the experience of this House also speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Anderlič said that the matter was clear, including to the proposer, the matter would be clear, just in the second direction, so the government supports the amendment tabled by the United List of Social Democrats and is in fact identical to the basic text of the law. The electoral law of the European Parliament has put in place very strict rules on incompatibility and so is the case. The rule on the incompatibilities of the function of Members in the European Parliament is in place both with the Member of the National Assembly, with the function of a member of the Government, as well as with the function of the executive body of the local community. Therefore, a Member of the European Parliament will not be able to be a member of the National Assembly, nor a member of the Government, nor a mayor, professional or non-professional. This incompatibility has two reasons, two purposes. Firstly, it is not possible to perform two difficult functions at the same time, and secondly, it is necessary to separate levels of political decision-making. In the European Parliament, the political dimension is European; in the national Parliament it is national, but at local level it is local, and this level needs to be separated, as is the case with the proposal for a law on local self-government to abolish or establish the incompatibility of the function of a Member and the mayor. Now, this purpose of the incompatibility I have been talking about, in this short period, does not play any role, Mr Potrč explained it, perhaps it is one session or even no meeting of the National Assembly, which means that it will be necessary to seek, of course, not difficult to find, but to place alternate Members for a period when the National Assembly may not work at all. And during this period, these alternate Members will be paid and have the right to receive a salary even 12 months after the end of their term of office under certain conditions, so here, the reasons why the principle solutions on non-compatibilities have been incorporated into the law are simply not meaningful for this short period of time. Reference to the European norm here is not included either, as European standards on non-compatibilities between the MEP and the Member of the national Parliament are not yet in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u42	I must say that I am surprised by this opinion of the Secretary of State, because we have not received a written opinion from the Government and, as is known, the Government has not defined itself to this amendment. It is true, however, that she was informed and took note that Parliament or the relevant working body had taken a decision and a solution on the Committee and it would be better if, of course, the Secretary of State correctly stated that this was an opinion that had been previously adopted and that he personally disagreed with it. The Government has not taken any decisions on the solutions adopted in the second reading on the Committee and has no written opinion, and I ask you to take this into account when you refer to the Government. The arguments that speak about it may not work at all, or someone here and there will be paid. No, she won't. Only one will get paid, one will get paid. If a Member or Member of the National Assembly is elected, he will receive it from or from the European Parliament and will also receive it from the Member of the National Assembly. And please don't fool me. And there will be no duplication, and for the true dignity of this National Assembly, it is important that you do not reduce Members and Members, even if they perform this function for a month, two, three or five, to some other simultaneous management of certain tasks. And that is, in case there's a meeting of the National Assembly - no, it's not true! By the end of the term of office, until the new meeting of the National Assembly, all those Members will be full, I will say, constitutionally appointed as Members and will perform all these functions. But if we're talking about other things that you're not talking about here, except what you really need to refer to, and I'm just referring to it -- the hard incompatibility that you've been talking about. But you can't say in the first sentence: you set the criteria of hard incompatibility, and in the second sentence you say, yes, well, for us for a few months it won't apply. It's not: do you have a principle, that it's incompatibilities and that you do, or you don't have it. If that were the case, why not also allow compatibility for the future, as we allow the compatibility of Members in the National Assembly. After all, we are currently considering the law on local self-government. The question of whether this compatibility and incompatibility will continue, as it seems, will continue. Not to mention other functions. This is how I do not support this amendment, and I also object to that part of your argument when you refer to the government because the government has not made a statement on this amendment. And secondly, you're consistent when you talk about the cost of doubling wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, then Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you. Only in 30 seconds. Tone Anderlich is right. It is necessary to be principled and must be viewed as such. In fact, this incompatibilities part was created by the incompatibilities or elimination of this incompatibility between May 1 and June 13 when the elections were held. This resulted in someone starting to patch up until the election, until November. And one more thing, the Secretary of State only has so much to know. The European Parliament does not oppose the compatibility of the function and with me in the LDR Group is the mayor of Venice, who is also a European Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u45	Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u46	First of all, on this last one. That is exactly what I said, that there is no legal norm in the European space that would oppose compatibility. That's all I want to explain about the government's position. I represent the basic position, that is, the position adopted at the time of the adoption of the bill in government. At that time, this argument was accepted and I explained it. But as for the costs, and also, please, I'm not deceiving. Which means what I meant by those costs. I thought next, if a Member of the National Assembly was elected as a Member of the European Parliament, then the state budget would pay more than it would, because it would pay the European Parliament's Members' salaries and the one it would replace in the Slovenian Parliament. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It's an interesting debate. I agree with Mr. Anderlich's amendment. But I do have one thought after all. If I understand correctly, with the elections to the European Parliament, the MEP who will be elected to the European Parliament will in fact cease to be employed in the home Parliament and will begin his work on the electoral day. But I find this hard to believe because our working hours have been running since the day of the assembly. Or is it there? Only the elections will be held on June 13th and the European Parliament will be held in July. At this time, I'm wondering how this is supposed to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u50	Of course it's because it's five seconds. In the meantime, there will be a delegation of the National Assembly, which will have temporary status. Since then, when it has been established, it has been incompatible. And on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u52	I'll say it again. It's not a question for me at all. You're doing it for some others, but the fact is, if we get a confirmed mandate for Members in July, then I'm afraid not for that, because we wouldn't know how. We know how replacement works are done, but we may not have a meeting at all so that the alternate term can be confirmed. If that's what we want, we can. We will remain on high principles, just don't tell me that we want to make chaos in this country because of the proposal we made. That's too big of an estimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the 21st and 25th minutes vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State very much for his cooperation. At 12:00 and 10 minutes we will move on to the 12th item of the agenda, to the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Economic Chamber of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u54	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr State Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Government Representative, nice greeting to all! We continue to work, moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Health Collections of Slovenia, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to provide an additional explanation of the bill. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Ambassadors and Members, welcome on behalf of the government! The Government has introduced the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber into the procedure following a reduced procedure. This is two cases of compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the first decision, the Constitutional Court ruled that the representation of representatives or representation of members in the Council of the Chamber was not proportionate. Indeed, we know that there are 13 regional units operating within the Chamber, which are also electoral units. These electoral units are very different according to the number of members in the first election group, from 3,743 members in the Kočevje District Unit to 25,177 members in the Murska Sobota District Unit. Following the law, all the regional units elected the same number of their representatives to the world of the agri-agricultural chamber - four of the natural persons, so to speak, the first constituencies, and two of the second constituency groups, groups of legal persons. We have found a solution in such a way that we have not changed the number of regional units, nor their scope, but we have drawn up such a proposal that allows the selection of a variety of saints into the world of the agricultural chamber. Thus, at each beginning 3,000 members would be elected to the world of the agri-land chamber of one councillor, Carmona, in the smallest constituency of two councilors of natural persons and in the largest constituency by number of members, that is in the constituency of Murska Sobota, nine saints. We also specified exactly what belongs to which constituency in relation to the regional units in the law, including the municipalities belonging to the individual regional unit of the chamber. However, compliance with the second decision of the Constitutional Court goes in this direction that the law did not specify precisely what the contribution is and for what purposes it is applied; this was left to the Statute. The Constitutional Court ruled that this should be included in the law and that we have also written in the law the contribution rates and also the purposes for which this contribution is applied. And the third amendment is not related to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but rather to the way or to the collection of a congregational contribution. Under the Tax Service Act, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of collecting a constituency contribution for both the economic, craft and agricultural chambers. However, for some objective reasons, this has not been the case, so for this transitional period, when the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to do so, we have laid down in the law that the chamber can collect the agricultural and forestry chamber itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Master Janez Kramberger, to present the reports of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Your Honors present at the sitting, welcome! I would like to briefly submit a report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which, at its 46th meeting on 4 February, addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. The reason why we have discussed this law has just been said and presented by a government representative, State Secretary Mr Potočnik. I would like to say that the President of the Council of State or the Commission of the Council of State for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture have also attended the meeting of the Committee. The Committee approved the law in its debate or in the process of second reading, we adopted amendments to the Committee and also amendments tabled in the procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Lydia Majnik. We have prepared a report, which is published in the Rapporteur, which says that the amended bill is dealt with in the Rapporteur and is also available in the computer network, so that it would not be presented here in detail. I think that this law is urgently needed for us to adopt it, because in this spring there will be elections, other elections in the agri-agricultural chamber and it is necessary to harmonise these changes imposed by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Alojz Sok will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u59	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I must first conclude that the government has put us in front of the time wall with this proposal. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision was issued or two decisions more than a year ago and should have been settled long ago, we are faced with a reduced procedure in relation to this law today. For we have before us elections to the agri-agricultural chamber and solutions, such as those proposed today, are certainly not the best. First of all, in Novi Slovenija we do not support compulsory membership in any chamber. Why make someone want to be a member of something if he does not want to, but right now legislation in the field of all congregations in the Republic of Slovenia is such that we have a mandatory membership in the law and not only in the agri-land chamber, but also in others, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Economics of the Republic of Slovenia. We have proposed some time ago, Nova Slovenija proposed an amendment to the law on the agri-agricultural chamber, where we wanted to raise the cadastral income, which is the basis for compulsory membership in the agri-agricultural chamber, to 66,000 tolars. Why did we propose that? For a simple mathematical reason, because the current law states that membership is 3% of the cadastral income and that the minimum amount cannot be less than 2 000 tolars. It was therefore appropriate for us to increase this rate and that those small farmers who do not actually benefit from agriculture should relieve this cost of paying the membership fee. Unfortunately, this proposal of our law has not received sufficient support. Now we have a new proposal. In this new proposal, however, what I need to find out and here clearly and loudly say is that the Liberal Democracy, with the work of its coalition partners, has abolished the flat-rate form of membership. We disagree with this way of paying membership fees. We do not agree from a legal point of view. In practice, it will go to the fact that if the obligation remains that anyone with 20,000 tolls of cadastral income is required to pay fewer membership fees than the costs of collection. So, of course, it is unacceptable to regulate the number of members of the agri-agricultural chamber in such a way, because it is necessary to be aware that these members, so membership will be less than a thousand tolars, this membership will not be collected, and they will be members and they will have all the rights that come from this membership. After all, they will be able to vote and can be loved in the world of this chamber. So, such a solution is not good and, of course, I appeal to my fellow Members and Members to correct this matter today, we have an opportunity, an amendment by the Slovenian People's Party is tabled, and it would be appropriate to follow this and not try to regulate membership in the Chamber in this way. If we want to regulate it, then I suggest we raise the cadastral income as a basis for compulsory membership. The other thing that has been corrected in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision is that there are approximately the same number of members per 3,000 members and that the same number of representatives are elected to the Council of the Chamber. The proposal in the current proposal, which we have on the table, is that on each of the 3 thousand members we have begun to vote for one representative, and in New Slovenia we have proposed an amendment, namely, that the word "began" be deleted and that it remains "each 3 thousand". Such a solution would bring much closer to the Constitutional Court's decision, which speaks of the approximately equal number of members being the same number of representatives in the world. However, if it remains written "on each of the 3,000 started", that of course means that that area unit, which would have 3001 members, would have two representatives, and those that would have 2999 members would have - the previous two, and that would only have one. Finally, we will support this bill with the proposed amendments. However, we will support it for this reason because we know that this area needs to be regulated due to the upcoming arrangements or the ongoing mandates of the current members of the Council and the President of the Advisory and Agriculture Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A good-bye to everyone. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we find that the establishment of an agri-economic chamber, which was carried out years ago with the adoption of an appropriate law, is, of course, inconsequential. This has been pointed out since then in the adoption process, but of course it has not been possible at the time to achieve that the law is truly better prepared and, of course, harmonised. All these inconsistencies have also been reflected through constitutional review initiatives, and today we are facing a change in the law that eliminates non-compliance with the Constitution. And we note that the decisions of the Constitutional Court have, in fact, eliminated only some of the ambiguities, and these relate mainly to the fact that the law will clearly record electoral units and that the criteria for spending compulsory membership will also be written down. So far, this has not been sufficiently specified in the law. However, it is not the most important inadequacy to be dealt with, but it is certainly something that remains, if anything, at least for the future, that we are also trying to eliminate this inadequacy. In fact, the fact that a large amount of property has been transferred to the agri-farming chamber and the competence to establish public agricultural advisory services, livestock farming, plant planting and wine-growing centres is certainly an exception to the organisation of chambers in Slovenia. In addition, all these activities, independent of the Government and the National Assembly, exercise the institution's rights in the Chamber and, of course, also receive funds that represent as much as 70% of the total revenue within the total revenue of the Chamber. So, it is crucial, I would say, the fact that this law does not resolve, and we believe that much more attention will have to be paid to this in the future. Thus, the contentious and today-conciliation contribution we have found in the consideration of this law that it is not clear, however, in this text as well. While it is a matter of improving the text or at least trying to improve it, it is clearer why the statutory contribution from compulsory membership should be spent, but nevertheless it has not been achieved that text, which would also satisfy our thinking, so on the committee, on the parent committee, we also supported the solutions that have actually eliminated the payment of lump sums - but not only because we do not know exactly where to go, but also because they have become differences between those who pay lump sums and are also small landowners, i.e., differences compared to those that have larger land areas, extremely large. This imbalance was also one of the arguments that we supported the solutions drawn up by the Group of Members on the home working body. Therefore, the fact is that in these amendments we have allowed the possibility of flat-rate membership to be paid by those who choose to do so on a voluntary basis; therefore, they become voluntary members and then pay flat-rate membership. We understand the proposaler that he probably tried to listen to the agri-economic chamber in a way that he wanted to raise his membership fee and increase his membership income, and thus somehow to make it easier for the chamber to operate, and that it should certainly also be used to open up new business premises - not in Slovenia, but in Brussels. We believe that in order to make such a move, it is necessary to clear the law up to this level in order to eliminate fundamental inconsistencies in the law. At this stage, we will support the amendments of the parliamentary groups, which, I would say, compromise on the current situation, so that the functioning of the chamber will probably continue smoothly to the extent of Slovenia. However, for larger steps, we believe that it will be necessary to wait for the moment when the remaining uncertainties, which are mainly related to the great powers which this Chamber has, will be resolved and, of course, it also substantially departs. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be prepared by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. As is well known, the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber has been subject to constitutional review twice. The first attempt to ensure that the provisions of the law, which, according to the Constitutional Court in contravention of the Constitution, have been regulated in accordance with it, have failed, but Members of the DeSUS Group insist on the position given at that time that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. We must admit that time is on our hands, so we are also so much happier proposals, which, at least so far, seems to be a good basis for reaching consensus. While the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its decision, stated that compulsory membership in the Chambers does not prejudice the right of injured persons to be free to unite, which is generally provided for in Article 42(2) of the Constitution. However, in the DeSUS Group, we continue to insist on the view that agri-land chambers are not a European category, but not particularly if the interest group has to be coerced. We were already in the parliamentary group when we adopted the law against compulsory membership and the minimum base of 20,000 SITs of cadastral income as a frontier forcing the landowner to be a mandatory member of the Chamber. For we considered that those with up to 20,000 SITs of cadastral income had no credit rating, as they are not a market producer, their income is minimal, and they are not entitled to subsidies. According to some, there are 111,000 such members. Nevertheless, we accept the interpretation that such forms of chambers are established primarily for the purpose of carrying out certain tasks in the public interest, such as the association of public law and therefore membership may be ordered. More than compulsory membership, however, the provisions relating to the contribution of the DeSUS Group were disputed. According to a government proposal, a parliamentary contribution of 4%, but not less than the lump sum, which would certainly be in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to leave the legislator largely open-ended, but would not be in line with the principle of fairness, which would also take into account the payment capacity of the individual debtor. Therefore, it seems more useful with the amendment that all members pay a contribution of 4% of the cadastral income, i.e. the majority of those who have paid a flat-rate contribution after the current law. If so, the corrected injustice will be for some 111,000 citizens, mandatory members of the Chamber with low cadastral income, which, unfortunately, will not have any special benefits in the future from the Chamber, but will at least be equal to others who have so far been in a privileged position to pay a chamber contribution. In the DeSUS Group, we will defend such a solution and if this solution is confirmed, we will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, the issue of regulating the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture is an extremely important issue. Even in the adoption of the law in the past, we have made great efforts to adopt this law. We've told you many times that this happened too late. In fact, the agri-agricultural chamber has been operating for only four years and the fact is that it has also faced certain problems at the time of its establishment. And at the time of entry into the European Union, such an organisation should in fact be established earlier. In fact, both the unique structure and the educational structure of our farmers in the Slovenian space are not comparable to European ones; this is due to the former attitude towards this economic sector. That is why we in the parliamentary group support the Government's proposal to adopt this amendment. We also know that there are different views here in this room, even in the coalition, there are different views, but we have decided by adopting this law that the concept of agri-land chambers will be regulated by this central European system. And we also wish that there are no differences between the other chambers in Slovenia, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. As far as the various opinions on compulsory membership are concerned. See, there is a concept of subsidies, which, in the framework of the common agricultural policy, is actually given to all those who have agricultural land. And I think this concept of being such a broad membership that it's not wrong. I think this is what we gain from the representation of this agri-land chamber. And we, as a parliamentary group, have also proposed several amendments to the plenary session. These amendments are in fact such that they return the proposed text back to the starting point proposed by the Government. In these days, we have also consulted various institutions and colleagues from the parliamentary groups, and we have also prepared some amendments, editorial changes to these amendments. We'll move these after we deal with these amendments individually. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think we need to adopt this law, and in particular we must not overlook this concept proposed by the government, which exclusively solves the matters of those to which the Constitutional Court draws attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u67	Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! First, I would like to note with regret that once again it has been shown that the decisions of the Constitutional Court in this National Assembly are having a very different and very uneven treatment. Look, we've had three extraordinary sessions on the subject before the ink on the decision dried up. We decide on the fate of the agri-agricultural chamber or two decisions on the subject by means of a reduced procedure, just in the last minute, before the elections are held. This agri-agricultural chamber in any way indirectly decides on the fate of at least 170,000 of its members, if not all rural areas in the field of agriculture, therefore it is even more strange that the deleted are experiencing such favoritism, given that it is a handful of foreigners. Okay, well, there's been a lot of talk about that. Allow me to present to you the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber in the Republic of Slovenia. We agree with the necessary amendment of the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber in its work, which, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, regulates and corrects the shortcomings associated with the representation of representatives of the various regional units in the world of the Chamber, mainly because of the extremely large differences in membership in these units. We are also of the opinion that it is necessary to lay down the criteria for determining the level of the assembly contribution and to set out the basic tasks of the chamber financed by such a contribution. In identifying these tasks, which are to be financed from a constituency contribution, we expect and give priority to those tasks that strengthen the representativeness of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and underline its role in the adoption of agricultural legislation and monitoring of the situation in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Because of this and because we are convinced that the agricultural sector urgently needs a well-organised chamber representing the interests of the agricultural sector, we support the government's proposal for legislation and we regret that this was too late in the parliamentary procedure. Despite the fact that the elections are scheduled to take place, even though the elections at the agri-agricultural chamber are expected to take place in April. However, we strongly oppose all attempts that would in any way deteriorate the conditions of functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber, so here I express my opposition and disagreement with the adopted amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Mrs Lydia Majnik, which in Article 8 of the legislative proposal introduces an amendment that essentially put an end to the imposition of a flat-rate compendium. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we understand this act as an attack on the agri-agricultural chamber and an attempt to abolish or significantly weaken the agri-agricultural chamber as a representative association of farmers. The obvious intention of the proposers to prevent the functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber shows that during the first four-year period, despite initial difficulties, the Chamber carried out and carried out its mission. Although in the Slovenian Democratic Party we did not agree with some of the moves of the highest management of the Chamber, which, in our belief in the legislative process, over-sported and supported the individual solutions proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Nevertheless, we support the Chamber as such. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are committed to strengthening the role of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, which is only possible if it receives the same treatment and the same relationship as the Chamber of Commerce and Economics. That is why I do not understand the attempt of the group of Members by the first-signed Lydia Majnik to reverse the flat-rate contribution only in the case of the agri-economic chamber. The flat-rate contribution is provided by both the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Economics. We also point out that the suspension of the flat-rate contribution in terms of the costs of the service would have exceeded the amount of the assessed contribution, together with the cost of the work. We will also support an amendment that allows and provides for the competence of the Council of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber to decide on the increase and reduction of the participation rate by 20%. Because this competence is not disputed in the opinion of the Constitutional Court and because this power is also conferred on the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u69	Your Honors are here! I was told to hang out with farmers. No, according to our assessment, you're legitimizing and coercing farmers. We have never been in favour of any coercion in the Slovenian National Party and therefore, at the principle level, we oppose any form of assembly where it is in the form of coercion. In 1937, the applicant thus stated, for the first time, an agri-economic chamber was established. We believe that the purpose at the time, the purpose and the idea of that chamber were welcome for that time. Unfortunately, today we are assessing that there is no longer such need, or even even more, that the Chamber has been formed - the said Chamber in the Act - of the substance of one political organisation and that there is only an entity on the market which increases administrative rules and which is in the cost or financial burden of users; that is, in our case of farmers. Thus, it indicates the number of mandatory members of 173.000 and something else, and in view of the mandatory membership, we soon come to the real meaning or cause of the existence of such an organization. However, in the presentation of the views of the Slovenian National Party Group, I think it makes sense to point out the following. That is, we oppose any form of merger into a particular content or institution with a compulsory membership. We believe that this is contrary to the market economy, we believe that this is contrary to the thinking of today's period. Compulsory membership, due to compulsory membership, whether or not someone wants to be a member, is, in our opinion, a surviving matter. According to our assessment, it is summarized from the SFRJ remains, where a similar idea was established within the political system; where this has led us, we know. On the other hand, the thesis on voluntary membership should be stressed. So let someone be included in the chamber, of course, if that is what he wants, if he has a certain economic interest or perhaps some personal satisfaction for such inclusion. But let him decide for himself whether he wants to use the services of the chamber or not. According to my assessment and according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the number of users of the Chamber would be substantially different in the event that they would be left to them or not. Today, when this is an obligation, the matter has a purely administrative basis. Unfortunately, the system of compulsory membership was adopted in our legal order, and unfortunately, Members and Members of the other political groups represented in this national assembly were not prepared for the other legal materials that we have dealt with, that is to say, as regards the Houses, to summarise the ideas of the Slovenian National Party in order to prescribe voluntary membership everywhere. And, of course, if someone is a voluntary member, let them pay the membership fee - but not in return for the mandatory membership also in paying the mandatory membership Today we have according to the data of 19 chambers in our country, from the Chamber of Commerce, Real Estate, Advertising, Lawyers and the like. But the bright exception between all of these is only one: a chamber of economic public services and environmental protection, which is written or based on voluntary membership in its content. Why can we not bring such arrangements into the rest of the congregation? According to our assessment, all other chambers, which are also defined in the content of the Rapporteur, have certain obligations. And any obligation for the user, especially when a small, normal user does not benefit from such a chamber. And we can safely say that 90% of the members of 170 and a few thousand, as far as they are in the agri-farm chamber alone, are of no use to this chamber. I believe it's good for a political party in the workforce. I believe that the chamber itself benefits from its existence and financial resources. Given that the National Party has failed to obtain support for voluntary membership under the crafts and similar laws we have dealt with, we will, of course, today support Mrs. Majnikov's amendments, which, according to our assessment or our assessment, will only result in mandatory members having at least one [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] minor memberships. [[...]] Once again, I stress that no solution is acceptable to the national party, which carries and provides for compulsory membership in its content and thus does not allow the market order to be introduced into our country's assembly system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 25.2.2004. You have also received amendments from qualified investors to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to your previous amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Party of Members has been amended. Amendment of the Slovenian Human Party with repair. Who wants a word? Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Those who today speak in the draft amendments to this Act on Compulsory Membership have not read this law. And today there is no talk of compulsory or optional membership, although this could be discussed once again. It is likely that the second year will require a recast of this law. In the first part of the amendments to this article, there is a discussion of why complaints to the Constitutional Court were made regarding representation in the world of the Chamber, which was then unusually resolved, without regard to the number of members. Now we have some formula 3000 and every next one. Because of me, it's either way saved. In my opinion, the number of members of the world is still too large, but with 3,000 they somehow come out, based on the number of memberships in individual regions. And whether it's started or every 3,000, and for each of the next ones, I still don't think that this solution, that the words of the lines begin, changes anything. If this world has 65 or 60 members, it doesn't matter. I'm not gonna back you up. Another story on the contribution of the assembly, which is also addressed in this Article. The main problem is that what is not being attacked by the Constitutional Court is cadastral income, which is likely to change in the second year and a recast of the law will be necessary because it will establish completely different relations and will then adjust the membership threshold. [[...]] But I can't believe what's not going on about some membership and a congregational contribution and a lump. Not one side should be attacked by a political party, a solution to why he broke down. 2000 or 3000, or 800 tolars calculated on a percentage basis. And that even all the little ones are obliged to pay for the contribution. On the other hand, it proposes a legal solution to the KD 66,000 threshold. For God's sake! Tell me what you want and who you want to run by. These two don't work together. I would have been pleased if I had completely misunderstood this debate. But it's pure deception. Either we say that everyone who processes the land is a member of this chamber, or we say 75% of them are not members. These are the two solutions. 66 or the threshold of 20,000 KD. Here we have three essential solutions. One is offered in this article with regard to the voluntary contribution to obtain some 2000 tolar flats because it is less worth collecting. And the issues are related to the following articles and to the text, including amendments to the amendments of the People's Party, that then, with regard to possible changes in rates of 20%, the Council of the Chamber has a consensus and that the government is involved. These are now three essential solutions at this stage of the adoption of the law. And these amendments that we have before us, which we should compromise on, as my colleague Weber said. At this stage, this is an intermediate solution, in my view, that we say that it has flattened 2000 because apparently 3,000 would not have enough support in this House, that any changes that would be necessary in the meantime will be decided by the world, but 20% up and down, and that the government will be involved. And I think these solutions are now embedded in changes to these amendments. And that this is an intermediate solution that means something to the chamber. With regard to the problems in agriculture, which are ten times larger, or will be ten times larger later than the solutions we are playing here today, and these, compared to those that will be much smaller, I mean the structure in agriculture, because we are dealing with the country's agricultural financing chamber later on in terms of a very small farm. Here we're dealing with about a hectare and a half, and up. The Ministry with the lower ones. What are we gonna do about it? This will, of course, be a matter of a second mandate, a new government and new solutions also in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber Act. Since I said these amendments were connected to me, I'd say the following. 20 000 KD means about a hectare and a half of a agricultural farm, which is not a farm, not by Slovenian, but by European standards. However, it is necessary for one professional service to advise the owner or manager of these land, what rights it has on the basis of existing legislation, what needs to be done, what needs to be recorded, and that it is justified to have some support from the State; to advise it, how it is organised and what information is being prepared, or to store data for it, to obtain some support; to fill out forms that are often very problematic and because of poor compliance with a variety of issues; and to later, when possible complications arise, it needs some help. And that for all I've listed, maybe 50 or 100,000 support from the state, and that's what it pays for, after this last proposal, 2,000 tolls of contribution to the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Kebrich's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. We have devoted a great deal of attention to this issue in our Group of Members, since we have already discussed the issues in the previous mandate. Our then fellow Member also sparked a constitutional dispute, and the Constitutional Court has annulled two things, so today we are in such a time crisis. In the parliamentary group, we will support the first amendment to Article 6 so that, not every beginning of 3,000, but 3,000, no matter whether this will only result in 5 or 10 fewer delegates - if there are fewer, there will also be less costs. It's a basic principle. For we believe, with this compulsory membership, of which it is irrelevant to speak today, according to the second amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, that we are absolutely against each lump sum. This article is contrary to that article that says that compulsory membership is a 4% membership. If 4% of the lowest cadastral income is only $20,000, and if that's not enough for those, why do they want these members? Let them write them off, put the censorship on such a high level that the 4% will be paid off. Why would costs be higher than income actually? This mandatory membership with regard to such low censorship puts I will say round, between 80 to 100,000 of these small owners - but now I will be very specific - because it doesn't matter whether you have 1.5 hectares of forest or a simple lawn [[I'm talking about the weekenders.]] , or you have 1.5 hectares of vineyards; the cadastral income depends on these different categories of what you grow, which culture. This is said to be the case that we do not agree with the fact that a lump sum has been introduced, even though it has now been reduced from 3,000 to 2,000. To me, if, of course, it would make sense that if there had to be a lump, it wouldn't be worth it. In order to say, it flattened up to 100% above the minimum calculated amount of 4%, it would still be somehow to be interpreted and people would understand. Why go to this particular agricultural forestry chamber, to certain officials for that money, to spend it, of course, and what these little owners and these little owners will have, do not even live off what they have a half a hectare or two or three hectares. These are the people who inherited something and put themselves there one weekend or go there at the end of the week to take some time off to mow that weed and everything else, what are they gonna have for you? Even if we look from a national perspective, from a budgetary point of view, it is not logical that from this mandatory membership you can get something from the state budget, although you do not live from this agriculture, it is said that we support certain rich people who have invented weekends with two or three hectares, and they invent something like this, either that they work themselves or hire them to work, on the other hand, at the end of this title, through the agricultural chamber, they count on some means to rebuild vineyards, orchards, etc., if they don't live off of it? Therefore, our parliamentary group cannot agree with any lump sum in any way, but we propose that that minimum amount is the basis to increase and that those pairs of tens of thousands of these small farmers are written off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. To your word, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I must say that I often have difficulty understanding Mr Juban's explanation. So the purpose that we proposed was crystal clear. So, where's the border when someone, because we have a legally binding, mandatory membership in the chamber, where's that border? Are you saying that 20,000 tolars of cadastral income are that limit? Those who have 20,000 tolars of cadastral income do not produce anything, or can produce nothing in the agricultural field, or up to no subsidies are justified. What you have proposed in the LDS and what you have helped to vote, which is, in fact, a perverse move, I think, forgive the expression, because the cost of mail for all those who have 20,000 tolars of cadastral income is higher than the effect, which is why the legislator then brought some flat-rate amount into this membership. This seems normal to me if the cadastral income for compulsory membership has already been so low. Why not make it compulsory for those with some small cadastral income? Why only those with 20,000? And let all those with lands help to co-finance this chamber, which is extremely important and I do not agree with the one you're politicizing if it just feels that way in a few moments. This Chamber is extremely important to note how Slovenian farms are left to themselves today. And even in this national assembly, they don't have many advocates, but they have a lot of opponents, and that's true. I can only list to you the laws that we have adopted and who, of course, voted them, from the law on agricultural land, the veterinary law, the law on livestock, where you wanted to achieve that you should have the consent of the farmer to fertilize his country and so on. That's the kind of amendment you've been putting in. Thank God, at least the minds of most people here don't support it. So agriculture is more than just an economy. And from this projection, we also need to look at this chamber. So, I see it primarily because, in economic terms, it doesn't represent much. There are also employees, many leaders in agriculture, but if we want to keep the extremes cultured, then we urgently need agriculture. And also a chamber that advocates these interests. But we need to agree on what is the way that is supposed to actually condition who is a member, how much he has to pay and so on. Of course, we have different views here. And the proposal of New Slovenia was that we should raise the obligation of compulsory membership on the basis of the KD a little bit and then get through that flat-rate amount that was supposed to be disputed. And you suggest I say another way, the real lump sum cancels, someone will be a member, has 20,000 tolars of cadastral income, membership will be 800 tolars, because, of course, the cost of collecting is more than 800 tolars, it's not worth it. And that's how you're going to go through the back door, just because you're opposed to Slovenian agriculture, because you don't care about Slovenian agriculture, that's how you're going to help the chamber, I'd say, bring it to some place you want to do, and you don't really want to say that. That's the truth, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. First the replica - Mr. Rokavec just a second - Mr. Juban please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Now I could see that Mr Sok was well aware that on one side of the attack, the solution, why the suspension had broken and on the other hand he was still talking about the 66,000 KD threshold he had proposed in his law. It means that those under 66,000 are not members of the chamber and are not paying for anything. And we have in the chamber, if this threshold is 20,000, less than 20,000 and a hundred thousand won't pay anything. A bunch of lies, but not so far, forward. I did not propose this solution and I did not vote in favour of this solution. Comrade Kebrich! Membership in the Chamber is not a condition for state subsidies and is not a basis. However, I said that it might be good in the future, but in this mandate there will be nothing, because today we have heard from the coalitions that we support some kind of flat, because elections are ahead of us. I am in favour of a solution that is not the subject of this law, but only once later, that the criteria for a farmer to engage in an activity should be given a common threshold, a criterion for where a farmer begins, whether it is KD 20 000 or 40 000. If the new KD is calculated, which will be slightly different, it will be necessary to correct one law and it would be good for the state to decide to deal with those who have or have comparable surfaces - I mean - 3 hectares or that KD 40 thousand or something like that. Those who have a hectare and a half of the lawn, pastures, forests, they don't have 20,000 KDs, and they're not members of the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. There's no such thing. Mr Rokavec, Mr Kramberger, Mr Sušnik has been notified. I can report you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Perhaps so many different thoughts about the importance and also about the number of members of the chamber are due to the fact that we received it very late. If we got the key political issues earlier and resolved, we would probably not be dealing with it now, and Slovenian agriculture would be more ready to join the European Union than ever. But I have to say exactly the following. If Slovenia, in the past and even so far, did not have such a different structure of farm size, there would probably be more cultivated agricultural areas at this point. And here I wouldn't have separated, even in a narration, some weekenders, if they had 2 or 3 hectares of land and they're processed and they're also members of the chamber. We must probably be based in Slovenia on the fact that if we want to have a treated landscape, that in the synergy of large farms that will survive themselves, half of the farms that, in combination, will, of course, try to work the land at home and also some of the so-called weekenders who will work the land will try to keep the workings of the Slovenian land as much as possible. For this purpose, it is also likely that the legislator’s intention to introduce such a threshold for compulsory membership in the Chamber is justified four years ago. Also for that purpose. However, I am sure that none of the small Slovenian farmers, if they will pay the mandatory membership fee as laid down in the 2000 Chamber more or less, will have any reason to leave farming. I'm sure that's what I'm saying. I'm sure I do. The problems, as my colleague Juban has already said, are elsewhere. And they need to be saved somewhere else. However, the Chamber shall be given the opportunity to provide all these members with maximum opportunities, from advisory, information, educational and so on, to the conditions that in fact those parts of the land which they own will be treated as best as possible. And now, specifically for this amendment. In fact, this amendment, tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, today, as a compromise solution, speaks of three comparable chambers in Slovenia being treated equally. Agricultural, craftsmanship and economics. I have before me, of course, a decision by the Constitutional Court assessing the power given to the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to increase or reduce the level of membership by a maximum of 2% on the basis of the work programme. The criteria for enlargement and reduction are the work programme of the Chamber, which is adopted by its Assembly. It is said that the Assembly of the Chamber adopts the programme of work on its own, but it must take into account that only the tasks laid down in the Law on the Chamber of Commerce are financed by a member’s contribution. It also ruled and judged the Constitutional Court. The lump sum in this law and also in the Economic Chamber Act. Where, I quote, says the following: "Also, the determination of the maximum amount of the membership and the fixing of the lump sum must be within the limits laid down by the law. Therefore, for those reasons, Article 20b of the Act does not conflict with Article 147 of the Constitution." So it would probably be the only job for the legislator to correct what is actually contrary to the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court found. And the Constitutional Court did not find that the lump sum was inconsistent, and the Constitutional Court did not find that the powers of individual chambers, including that they could increase or reduce up to 20% of the amount of the chamber's contribution. This is mainly about equal treatment of all key segments of the assembly organisation in our country. If, of course, there will ever be a decision in our country to organise the Chambers voluntarily and that we will be redirected from the Central European concept of assembly organisation to the Anglo-Saxon part of the assembly organisation, then this will be a political definition of the state. She's like this right now. I am sure that it is correct, however, that the four-year functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber certainly has many questions, but the question whether this is a credible period for a critical and thorough assessment of the way in which the organisation is assessed, which we have written down in the law. You can, political decisions are allowed differently, but then you change the criteria for one thing, for the other. That means it's not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm talking about Article 6 where there are two amendments. You just got your colleagues on the bench to fix this amendment that we tabled today. So, the first amendment - for us it doesn't really matter that much, or at the beginning of 3,000 members there is one place in the world of the chamber or something else. Basically, this may be a few mandates, but it's not that important. In the concept, it might really help to complete this. The second amendment, which we have corrected, states that there is a downsizing of the Parliamentary contribution in agreement with the Government. So we, too, are kind of beyond the concept of congregational regulation in our country. Why this is not necessary for the Chamber of Commerce and for the Chamber of Commerce, but for agri-agricultural purposes. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber also has to put its programme on the government every year to be confirmed by the government. Well, that's just the way it was in the previous convention. That's just the way we handled it. The fear of this so - called agricultural lobby, which he would allow, which he would not have done if it had been otherwise. Here today we have heard, I would say, some concern for small farmers, how about these 2000, which is proposed or 3,000, that this will in fact prevent farming. This, my friend Ivan Kebrich, is not going to happen. I would suggest that when we also have other subjects here in this house, when we talk about other things, that we be so generous, not just in words, even in actions and decisions, to other things. Look, agriculture is definitely a specific. Slovenian agriculture in the European area is even bigger. And if we don't take care of this and if we don't have a strong agricultural forestry chamber, strong advice that will be able to give these people good advice and good guidance in this room, so that we don't have such a chamber that will be well run and democratically run. If that's not the case, it's gonna be bad for agriculture. We have been very late and it is time to learn this and settle the matter as it is regulated in other European countries. We have said this, as colleague Rokavec said, that this law has been regulated, as in neighbouring Austria, Germany and these central European countries. We can't, but why else would we arrange it, why should we handle it in some other way, which is, in fact, incompatible with us? I think we can overcome these in some sense also ideologically different views and settle this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u83	I would like to express my disagreement with the second amendment to Article 6 of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, because I am convinced that it is unacceptable for them to legislate the consent of the Government in determining or increasing the entry fee and fixing the lump sum in relation to the previous dictatorship of this Article. Here's one particular thing I don't understand, neither does any of the chambers have a built-in stipulation that the government gives any consent. The fear of the government here simply cannot be understood; every smart government should wish in the agricultural and rural situation that there is a strong and well-organised agricultural forestry chamber in Slovenia. Clearly this is not the case, you are clearly the protagonists of agricultural policy, as has been shown in the last period. Even earlier, when adopting the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which was part of a similar treatment, you have clearly assessed that the agricultural forestry chamber is the obstacle that prevents you from implementing a agricultural policy that ultimately results in the abolition of rural and agricultural areas, otherwise it is simply not possible to explain it. While the Minister for Agriculture is only able to observe the weak issue, as he did in the adoption of the law, it takes place and hunting. Doing so or doing so is extremely irresponsible and dangerous and in the long term changes the image of the Slovenian countryside, so things simply do not go and have no perspective. When I listened to Mr. Kebrich, I understand him. Look, 10 farms go down daily, people who have picked up money in this transition, moved to the countryside, bought these failed and poor farms, made nice weekends and normally fell into, I'll say, a set of those who have to pay for the choral contributions. And to these people, with all the wealth they've shown through the transition, by buying up such parcels and by their activity, which I'm going to say, on the other hand, once again changes the image and structure of the countryside, they're afraid to pay those 3,000 tolar flats. Listen, you're on extremely slippery ground here. What you've been defending, it doesn't take any smart judgment, and I'll say it shows the customer's attitude, which, I think, should do more for rural development and make a move for the Slovenian farmer, because, finally, you have the most electorate there. I think the whole way of solving this problem is extremely controversial that what you're doing is not good. The compromise contained in the correction of these articles is also not consistent. I don't think it's going to flatten the functioning of the agri-land chamber. I do not believe this because the agri-agricultural chamber is also faced with extremely serious problems regarding the financing of the tasks it has taken over and which the government is obliged to finance. We have heard representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture that they have extremely high costs by financing government revenue shortfalls. These revenues fall for months or even six months or more. This is an additional problem, which is still characterised by the loss of revenue on the cancellation account or now, as we see, an attempt to reduce the flat rate. All together, it is a very big problem for the agri-agricultural chamber, but, as I said before, because of the fear that the agri-agricultural chamber would represent or be a representative organisation in the field of agriculture, which could cross any plans or original solutions that only draw and exhaust the Slovenian farmer, it is not the least normal. For example, I will give a completely strange, unacceptable and highly exploitative way of dealing with slaughterhouse waste, where, unfortunately, the agri-land chamber could not do anything. This is a typical example of the transfer of capital from Slovenian agriculture to the private sphere. We had the opportunity to read that for 2002, an authorized slaughterhouse waste processor entrusted to him in processing all slaughterhouse wastes, not just those at risk, achieved almost 3 billion profits; all of this went to the farmer's account. And these are the plans and interests that you are pursuing, and you are afraid that the implementation of these plans will prevent you from doing so. Therefore, I think that these amendments, or attempts to weaken this Chamber, are inherently linked to this way of guiding rural development policy, not least if you want to, because all of this is inseparably linked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I will not argue about compulsory membership, nor about the lower limit, nor about the necessity or non-necessity of the agri-agricultural chamber, nor about who is more for a farmer and who is less for a farmer. This is not the subject of the law that we are correcting today, so I would not even discuss it in this direction. I would say, however, that the agri-agricultural chamber has, according to the latest data, 167.904 members. If we accept the SLS amendment to introduce a flat rate, there will be a total of 103.712 members paying a chamber contribution of 3,000 or 2,000 tolars. In the novel that we accept today, 4% of the cadastral income is foreseen, and the lower limit is 20,000, as we all know. At a rate of 4%, the chamber will receive 650 million tolars from this title. This dose is almost 200 million higher than the dose for the year before. I will not dispute why the recovery for 2001 was only 72%, because in the law we have now written that Durs, not the chamber itself, will make recovery. The cause of such a low recovery is probably something, and it would be a waste of time to go through everything. If the SLS amendment had been adopted, the Chamber would have obtained an additional 300 million to the 4% contribution. In this way, a little less than a billion dollars would be available from the magazine’s membership or congregational contribution. This is from 480 million in the past year. According to the annual report, 6.5% of the total revenue of the chamber is collected by means of a compendium contribution. However, this money, according to their report, is used to finance in particular the costs of services where the payments of meetings for participation in meetings of the statutory bodies of the Chamber are the largest proportion. It should also be said that the Chamber is financed primarily from the State budget and that it generates 70% of the funds or 3 billion 800; that its market revenues are a billion 300 or 24%; and that the previously mentioned chamber contribution represents 6.5% of the total revenue; and that it has 63 million extraordinary revenues. So in 2002 the chamber had 5 billion 500, and we are talking today about a very small share of money. It should also be pointed out that the entire programme of work of public agricultural advisory services, livestock, fruit-growing centres and plant protection is provided by the State with budgetary money. The budget shall also provide all funds for salaries and labour-related costs. Therefore, I strongly reject the fact that the dismissal has suspended the intervention in the chamber. However, the intention of the amendment was to make the burden of paying for the assembly contribution more fair to all mandatory members. The reference to a similar arrangement in the Chamber of Commerce and Economics is also not correct. After all, the agri-agricultural chamber was created completely different. At the time of her establishment, she received all the offices, all the employees and all the budget money, which the other two chambers were not. Commercial acquisition of funds through membership and charging of services for the exercise of public powers is similar to the arrangement of the Chamber of Commerce. All three chambers, including the agri-agricultural chamber, also know the pavilion. And we have also left the motions for amendments on the committee in a part where there is no known basis for calculating the chamber's contribution. For all other categories, there are 103 thousand members, but we are absolutely committed to paying a percentage. The flat-rate charge on a single unit seems extremely unfair to me. I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, the amendment tabled under Article 9 is incorrect because it refers to a 2000-tlar lump sum because the lump sum and its amount are set out in Article 11. And if the amendment is accepted, the amended amendment we received on the bench will be unconformed. In short, the amendment that restores the payment of the lump sum will not personally support it. But I do not want to argue about who is more for farmers and who is less for farmers where there should be borders, because unfortunately, this cannot be the subject of debate today, because the law in this part is not open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch. In order of course then, Mr. Brenčič. Mr. Sok, Mr. Secretary wanted a word, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. So, in any way, I support compulsory membership in both the agri-agricultural chamber and the chambers of commerce and some others, to which the State has delegated part of its powers. And in this part, I certainly agree with mandatory membership. The subject and problem that is also present in today's debate is who is a member of the Chamber. Unfortunately, this is not where I expected the proposed amendment of the law, when coordinating the laws, to make a constitutional decision, to take into account a number of comments that have appeared and are present every day since we adopted the Houses Act and since the Houses, or the Chamber, were also established. Membership in the Chamber should be linked to activity, not ownership, that's my opinion. [[Talking from the hall.]] Thanks for the call. He's out of business. I can prove that for more than one reason. In the Chamber of Commerce, of course, there are members of the Chamber, shareholders and d.o.o.s who are engaged in some economic activity. But certainly not the owners of these organizations. Even in d.o.o., where individual partners may be with 5, 10%, 20% of the owners of this d.o.o. are not members. The same is true of course for trade chambers. For agricultural purposes, this is not the case. At the time of the meeting of the committee, I have had a number of visits, such as, in a way, I feel very hurt because they have to be members. I also got some letters. It is interesting and it would be good to listen to, say, who is and how someone from Kopra is a member of the agricultural chamber. He's got a cadastral income, Geza. Listen a little bit, so you can understand what I'm talking about. I'll wait. From Kopra, I received an interesting letter complaining to a member of the agricultural and forestry chamber, which has a cadastral income of $23,000 in 2002, after some relief of 17,000, and owns seven parcels. In four cases up to one quarter, in two cases up to one fifth. He knows roughly where these parcels are, because it comes from his former birthplace. And he's never dealt with agriculture in his life. However, he is a member of the Chamber with a quarter share in it. And that's what I'm saying. He can't be a member of 10% of one d.o.o., a member of the chamber, but he's a d.o.o. a member of the Chamber. And there can be no one who co-owners agricultural land up to one-eighth, up to one-quarter, and exceeds this cadastral income a mandatory member of the chamber. And that's it. Come in. When you talk about a flat-rate amount or a percentage of this base will not cover recovery costs, or for calculation. Of course not. And it's not enough for 3,000, and there's not enough for 5,000 in these cases. Look, this paper shop is a complaint from the same specific man. After seven months he received an answer to his complaint that he had to complete it in 15 days and then received a reply on four sides within 15 days of that, signed by the President of the Chamber and a graduate lawyer, the Head of the Legal Service of the Chamber, that his application was unfounded. That's 50 grand, or 100 grand, if someone hires another lawyer. So, there's no joke that these 3,000, 2000s are too much or too little. Vic is that, in my opinion, the members of the Chamber are supposed to be those who carry out the agricultural activity that they live off. It is home to household members, and it generates some decent income from this title. At the same time, they are not members of the chamber, and those who have no land are farmers. For example, fishermen, beekeepers, gardeners on small surfaces. They're not here. That is why I have advocated, and I still advocate that agricultural land owners may be smaller, including members of the voluntary chamber. And let the membership also be 5,000 and 6,000 or 10,000, as far as anyone is willing to pay for voluntary membership. However, it is not forcing these 103 thousand smallholders of agricultural land to be members of a chamber in which they, of course, operate and manage those with their main interests. It is clear to me that there is nothing we can do in this debate, because the articles that could have arranged it are not open. That is why this amendment has actually taken place in order to erase the flat-rate and to avoid it, and in this way to force those who are preparing this legislation to prepare the amendment of the law in accordance with the problems that are, not the Constitutional Court Directive or the Constitutional Court’s decision alone, a problem is not only the Constitutional Court’s decision. The problem is these 103,000 mandatory members of the Chamber who do not reach 20,000 cadastral revenues and who do not know why they are and complain. I would really like to know how many complaints you had in the rescue - probably none resolved favourably, because the law is just the way it is - and how much these appeals cost, and we will see where and what is worth in this work. This same gentleman wrote to me, "Why am I not a member of the Chamber of Commerce as well? And I have a small workshop, I have some tools, sometimes I make a birdhouse, sometimes I fix a bike, and I'm not a member of a craftswoman." This is similar to if it has a few square meters too much garden around the house, but if with a quarter the owner is on some surfaces and thus exceeds the price of 20,000 tolars. Of course, I will support the law because it is not the solution in this part that we do not accept the law today so that we do not allow the elections to continue. However, if this problem is not resolved, we will face these discussions again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! You know very well that I do not deal very much with the issue of agriculture policy and the things related to this policy in our parliamentary group. That is why I will not go further into what conditions there are for being a member of a housing organisation, nor in that property is also a burden - that is a fact; one who thinks that property is just something superior "nobel" is in the final stages of finding that it is also a burden. However, at the time of the amendment to Article 6, something does not impress me and I do not understand the reason or purpose why we require the Government's consent in the law on the issue of the level of the limitation, increase or decrease of the assembly contribution. This is completely incomprehensible to me. One or two key principles in the European Union linked to the public justice system are at the forefront, namely subsidiarity and partnership. And in terms of subsidiarity, European governments are still transferring certain public powers to state-of-the-art organisations. [[We call them the chambermaids.]] - Why? Because they well know that such an organisation does a whole series of procedures and things better than other national authorities. Therefore, they transfer part of the powers to these organisations or chambers by law. In accordance with the scope of their powers, they shall also ensure from the State budgets the need for all means to exercise these powers. However, in order to exercise these powers either competently or responsibly, it is also conditional on compulsory membership. Compulsory membership is also a condition for autonomy, in this case the Chamber, and it does not matter which one it is. Whether it's an agricultural chamber or a trade chamber or an economic chamber. These are the facts. And the autonomy of the Chamber shows that its authorities, in accordance with the law and rules of the game with which we set up the Chamber, decide autonomously on matters which are entirely their original jurisdiction. This includes a decision on the level of the congregational contribution. I don't understand the complete mistrust in some chamber, but it's an x-room. That we do not trust the authorities that they themselves will determine the level of the assembly contribution in accordance with the rules of the game. Something like that is completely unacceptable to the Chamber of Commerce. I am not dealing with this policy, I say, but for me, as an acquaintance of other areas, more from other segments of the economy, such an input into the law that the government gives consent or even determines the amount of a consensual contribution, completely irrelevant, completely something that does not go into the subsidiarity deck, with which the government, the state authorities, knowingly committed some responsibility to the administration of a country or an area, with a system of public powers, to this organisation, if we also call it an agri-land chamber. And I don't even understand where this terrible mistrust on the one hand comes from in the bodies of a chamber, which we have legally entrusted them with some of the administrative functions of the country. So I really don't understand why such an amendment could have come about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My friend Aloys Sok wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I will, of course, say once again that the abolition has fallen from an economic and financial point of view. It would be better if you wanted to raise that level, which is just a requirement for compulsory membership. So we'd raise the cadastral income. Since membership will be so low that it will not be worth collecting, then this matter will also arise from a legally formal point of view. Because someone, a member of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, with all rights, will therefore not contribute anything to the membership. So, this is just, I think from these two perspectives, the suspension seems to have flattened out and you will be the ones who have the majority to decide. But I don't think that's good. However, it would be good for us to make a good decision, because this will, of course, have great consequences for the functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber, for the future that it has played, I am sure that it has played that role, perhaps not entirely, but mainly what it was set up for. As regards the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 6. It does matter if five or six members of the world are more or less, but it is something else. This is what the Constitutional Court wrote in its decision. The Constitutional Court stated that there must also be the same number of members in the world. And if we say that at every start of 3,000, then this mathematically means that that area unit that has 3,001 members will have two representatives in the world, that area unit, which has 2,999 members, will have one. What does the principle of equality mean? It means it could be a difference plus minus 10%. In this case, which I've now shown, it could be the difference almost plus minus 100%. So from this point of view, it would be good to delete the word "started" because, if we say otherwise, of course, there can be no such big difference. However, I agree that, from the very cost point of view or from the number of members of the Council, it is more or less irrelevant. Therefore, it is a matter of implementing the Constitutional Court decision, and if so, it would probably be possible for someone to remember and appeal to the Constitutional Court again, because we are not following exactly what the Constitutional Court has established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you. I will now give my word to the Minister for Agriculture of Magi. France Booth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize for the absence at the outset, because we have adopted a large number of regulations in the government, which introduced 42 billion tolls of subsidies and other forms of direct payments in 2004, a third more than last year and half of this is paid by the European Union for successful negotiations. So we have done a very, very important work that will be of great benefit to Slovenian rurals and farmers. That is why I apologize once again for my absence at the outset. As far as the debate here is concerned, of course, I cannot give a position of government because the government has not defined these amendments. As Minister, I can tell you my personal position. At that time, the government prepared a flat rate of 3,000 tolls in the basic text. I suppose the government had already come from two points of origin. One is that the Chamber should be as independent as possible in order to be able to carry out functions other than those granted by the State, but by representations, and that it also has sufficient financial resources to enable it to be financially independent. It is therefore the interest of the State that the contributions to the Chamber - so to speak - are high enough that the Chamber can also provide certain services; everything else is a kind of virtual concern for farmers and the like - I will say - that it is clear why I personally believe that if such a proposal was not acceptable, it might be wise to accept the amendments of the SLS, because they could mean a similar compromise solution. I think we need to get back to the beginning when the motioner proposed to the National Assembly years ago, and the National Assembly has passed the House Act. At that time, there was talk of representativeness and independence in the part that spoke of basic functions. Representation, however, means compulsory membership, which is one of two European categories, which belongs to countries such as Slovenia, Germany, Italy, Austria. However, it is not owned by some other, different countries from Slovenia. We just said that being representative means also having a role and a place in society. Being independent also means having certain financial resources. That's why I don't think there's actually any sin if there's someone in a club - the club is called landowners and forests - it's just in that club. If it's just that you belong to an association in that club, you pay this association some of your own price and compensation. Then, of course, you must demand that you be represented, told, and exercised your will. The interests of the State may only be as much financial independence as possible by the Chamber. This certainly means not just lifting the lump sum, but actually something that will mean some decent source of survival for the function room, which is not functions that the state pays for.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I'd touch three things that were in the debate. First - as said by colleague Sušnik and also by colleague Brenčič - with the amendment introduced in agreement with the government. I also believe that this part does not actually judge and that it causes less independence or the questionability of confidence in this part of the assembly organisation. This also shows the relationship between the majority of Slovenian policies and the confidence in this part of the assembly organisation. But the thing is, there is a need for compromise in politics. If here, in agreement with the government, I believe that the government will only be so flexible that it will not prevent the normal functioning of the chamber. Secondly, what Mrs Majnikov said about the amendment to Article 8 is that we cannot determine here the amount of the lump sum fixed in Article 11. That's not true! Article 11 provides for a lump sum for persons, for other persons who are retired, with disabilities. Article 8 referred to the flat-rate amount for all categories which do not reach 4% of the cadastral income. Therefore, I believe that, if we set out here and adopt this compromise amendment to 2000, it is still possible to correct Article 11 in the form of a harmonisation amendment. It is also said to amend the provision that it is consistent with one another. This is a minimum proposal for an acceptable compromise, which we have drawn up in the Slovenian People's Party, and has also drawn up with a view to bringing these issues together, which are not actually subject to an adjustment to the Constitutional Court's decision. This question for the Constitutional Court was not disputed. Third time. I believe that the guidance given by my colleague Majnik regarding the use of the costs of the chamber was incorrect. Since it stated that most of the costs are spent on meetings. In 2002, 19% of meeting costs were used in the agricultural forestry chamber, and 18% of the costs of postage were not listed below. But it's in the amount of service costs of 278 million tolars. It is said that we cannot say so simply that most of this contribution is for meetings. There are other costs: costs of regional exhibitions, regional units of exhibitions, information costs, other costs, so to speak, business - telephone, internet, costs of printing shops, meetings, etc. This is, in fact, all of the 5.6% that are collected from the membership contribution. To claim that members, whether those who have 500 000 KADs or those who have 21,000, do not benefit from the chamber, is literally misleading the public. Only those services provided by the Chamber through their newspaper have already weighed the actual contribution of a member or lump sum. If we bring you down to 2,000, from 3,000 to 2,000, it is said that all the members of the Chamber will previously benefit positively from the negative benefits. In fact, I think and I suggest that we do not make false care for a small farmer in this case. There is literally a false concern for a small farmer who can at the moment benefit from certain political objectives in certain political parties. But it doesn't benefit our agriculture. Don't use it! Because, as I said earlier, in Slovenia, we have to watch and actually speed up such a large, medium and small farmer, including a weekender who has so much land that he is also a member of the chamber and who processes the land. If we want this Slovenia to remain as processed and inhabited as it is. I think that this is a key issue and that because of two or one thousand people it will not pick up one farmer, but it will be picked up because of other measures taken by this country or the inappropriate solutions that this country can take and because of its attitude towards this sector. I think that's the key question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would just like to correct the statement by Lidija Majnik, a colleague who said in her discussion that the chamber collects a billion with a membership fee and a flat-rate contribution. That's not true! According to the new calculation, it would be 770 million and without a flat rate of around 600 million. This is about big differences. It's a good thing to write that down, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u99	The government will decide on the reduction and increase of the chamber's contribution in Article 6 within four years, perhaps once or not once. Because that's probably not gonna happen. Not at all after this bill, which will have to be adopted and will also be the solution that some of you are rightly talking about today, is different due to the change in the KAD and much more. However, this is the text, Comrade Rokavec, which you are attacking, was signed by John Sponik and please take note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u101	No, Comrade Juban. I would expect correctness from you, too, as you have participated in these discussions. Indeed, I said that there is a need for compromise in politics. That is why we offer this dictatorship as a minimum of acceptable compromise, which did not grow first on our herbs, has grown somewhere else. But if this compromise is to be reached, we will also take it into account. In fact, I have no problem here with what we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party or what our Group leader has signed. I answered only the question raised by the speakers before me that it is actually a question compared to other chambers. But if this is the kind of doctrine that needs to be reached by a minimum compromise at this point, then it is also acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u103	Respectable present. I would like to refer to the performance of Minister Booth when he apologized for being a member of the club. I hope I'm quoting you right when I say, "if you belong to a club, you're carrying some expense." Yes, but the point is, and it's very meaningful for the public to not come into the area of deception, to point out that you said, if you belong, of course, if you belong, you wear membership, but to allow people to decide whether they belong or not. This is a basic dilemma at least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, not and this membership in this club, I use your jargon, to legalise or because it is already legal. We're fighting this at the National Party. In short, in our case, farmers should be able to decide whether or not they belong to this club. It's an established dilemma. Secondly, with regard to deception, Mr Rokavec said that it was necessary to avoid misleading that members or farmers benefit from the above-mentioned Chamber. I say the other way around. I say a lot of farmers, so the members, have no use for it. It makes absolutely no sense for us to argue today. You're saying they're useful, I'm not. Let's leave it to him. If they figure they'll benefit, they'll join. If they figure they don't have the benefits, they won't join. So the idea or aspirations of the Slovenian National Party, at least in my opinion, is completely acceptable. So much to avoid misleading the public and to correct Mr Rokavac and Mr Booth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I think we can conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 8 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the same Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 21.25 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We will continue at 2.40 p.m. when we move to the 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the bill on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u105	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We're moving to 14. Period of the day -- that's the third defensively proposed bill on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the bill. Comrade Miran Run, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before deciding on the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, we are in third reading. The long-standing and also very controversial debate on this law was not only arduous. She was also good and useful. It confirmed that even in Slovenia, according to the example of most European countries, some of the characteristics of the capital vis-à-vis national authorities should be regulated by a specific law that these relations must be based on the principle of adaptation, cooperation and common interests, and on mutual equal rights and obligations. But they can only be realized by agreement. These principles must apply to every city and municipality in the country where they perform the tasks necessary for the performance of the functions of the State. Most - I hope - have come to realize that this law is not intended either for the privileges of the capital, nor can it contribute to the urgent deconcentration and decentralisation of state functions, and above all to the more equitable development of Slovenia. Like everyone who proposes this law, we recognize these issues as a particular problem and the current task of Slovenian policy. However, they can be addressed by redistributing powers between the State and local government, by redistributing resources for decision-making on development and quality of life through the creation of landscapes, which will translate part of state functions into a level of self-government decision-making that is closer to people than the State, as well as, in particular, a policy of promoting coherent, regional development and eliminating unjustified differences in development and conditions of overcoming them, which is a specific task of the State. The only misunderstanding - I hope it is only because it still exists at the end of the marriage - is that it is its first article. Two amendments have been tabled with him. The proposed amendments, on the one hand, consider that, by means of their amendment, which no longer provides for the possibility of defining that they are designated bodies in Ljubljana, but that their seat is regulated by specific legislation, in order to allow the establishment of state authorities and public interest organisations to be established in the sectoral laws and thus in other parts of Slovenia. I insist and ask my colleagues to re-evaluate their own proposal whether it is indeed what it is proposed, by name and by title. In fact, our proposal for a law no longer mentions any body or organisation and argues that in Ljubljana there are only the seats of those bodies or organisations for which the law or other act will so determine. This is exactly the same as the proposal and explanation of their amendment. On the contrary, the law or other act, as the seat of an authority or organisation, can therefore determine any place in Slovenia. Therefore, the content of the proposed article already allows other bodies or organisations to be established in other parts of Slovenia, provided that this law and the content of Article 1 are in no way precluded. Second. I hope that it is not possible to understand that only the fact that Slovenia is also the administrative centre, that Ljubljana is also the administrative centre of Slovenia means that we want to centralise it. If there were no public authorities in the capital and there were no administrative functions, then this would not be the capital. If possible - so on this issue - I would really like to hear some reasons, arguments, but not just an argument that is not substantiated. I hope, therefore, that we will also resolve this misunderstanding at the appropriate time of the debate and that today the National Assembly will be pleased to adopt the law on our common capital. About the capital of all citizens [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Slovenia, no matter where our beautiful homelands are. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you for the introductory explanation, supplementary explanation to the representative of the proposalr. I welcome Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, and ask if she wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you. I would just like to stress once again that the government has declared its support for the capital law. In this regard, it noted some ambiguities, or better said, and made some comments, which were also taken into account in previous cases. So there are no more objections. I would also like to point out that, in its opinion, the government has pointed to this or pointed out that, in fact, this law places a new emphasis on the system of administrative negotiation and partnership. First of all, between the capital and the country, but of course it seems important to us also, as well as to the state and other municipalities, in the case of the provision of conditions or the functioning of the State or bodies, organisations and other representations, as well as in the case of special events, we can say, on behalf of or under the authority of the State, and in this case, they can be carried out by any other municipality. In fact, this provision also brings, in fact, quality in this arrangement, in this partnership. That is why the law has also been constantly supported by the government, especially after the comments by the government have been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you, government representatives. I will give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for their views. Majde Zupan's not here right now. Anybody else? Mag. Janez Drobnič, position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore in third reading. This is an attempt to regulate relations between the country or to regulate the capital as is the case with the real country, and in particular with the country that joins the European Union or the European Union on 1 May, as we become members of this community. So the law is supposed to regulate the relationship between the state and the local community. It is true that this is the purpose of the law. However, the question is how many operational provisions have been written down to make this relationship regulated. We all agree that if we take a good look at the law, we see that the law remains at the general level and, as such, is not the best tool to resolve possible disputes between the city and the country, or even more, to make this regulation easier or at an exemplary level. While the provisions of the law relate to protocol matters, to regional development, the exploitation of space, state administration, local self-government, international institutions, everything remains at the agreed level. The law refers to an agreement to be concluded by the city and state authorities. How, in what way, by which instruments? These things are missing in the marriage. Also, procedures or instruments, what happens if someone does not respond appropriately in some procedure. So we ask ourselves: How are we going to solve some of the key things that have been going on in Ljubljana recently? Whether this law is a real tool to solve problems that have arisen either in the installation of institutions of national importance or international importance. Anyone dealing with these problems, too, will wonder whether this document, this law, can help to facilitate the resolution of the issues. Therefore, it is likely that the image of the city of Ljubljana will remain still. Instead of becoming a modern administrative, national, passenger, business centre, we will remain on the same level. Spatial and regulatory plans in Ljubljana also follow facts or interventions into space. In fact, the City Administration responds to either a poor work in practice or does not regulate the matter in time to enable entities to submit or place themselves in Slovenia. The capital has a symbolic significance for statehood and should therefore indicate in this law which institutions of state importance are established in Ljubljana. In the New Slovenia Group, we support and advocate that, as far as Parliament is concerned, there must be a seat for the government in Ljubljana. This is no answer or centralisation. The government and the National Assembly have a symbolic significance for statehood. Ljubljana is the most typical city symbol of statehood. For other institutions, however, we can provide space elsewhere in terms of decentralisation. For international institutions as well. They don't have to be in Ljubljana. They can be in Maribor, Celje or elsewhere. However, those of key importance should be mentioned in this law. The law, its text, several touch mainly on the agreements between the government and the county. I think that even if there were no such law, there would be no complications if there were reasonable action on the part of the government and on the part of the city authorities. If there is no reasonableness in the future, this agreement law between the government and the county will have no positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat for the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State, Madam Mayor and representatives of the city of Ljubljana! In the presentation of the views on the general debate and in the second reading amendments, the Group of the United Nations Social Democrats clarified its views on the content of the proposed law. However, due to the frequent opening up of problems and questions that are not related to the objectives and principles of this law, we need to clarify again how we view it. The law has been followed by the practice of most European countries, which have a special law in the capital or capital. Although they are different names, it is clear from all those concerned with the management of the capitals that they are based on the provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, according to which local authorities carry out their duties autonomously under the rule of law of each country and its policies. The draft law also fulfils the specific status of the city of Ljubljana set out in Article 10 of the Constitution within the municipality. According to the Government, it is without prejudice to the constitutional situation of self-government local communities, since the law can be understood primarily as a provision governing relations between two holders of public administration functions in the capital area. It provides for the mutually coordinated performance of the tasks of the municipal municipality, on the one hand, and of the State authorities, on the other hand. For this reason, we cannot hold on to those who feel that the adoption of a law is contrary to the interests of other congregations, even to their detriment. The provisions of this law are the legal basis for regulating the contractual relationship between the State and any city or city municipality which will and will carry out the tasks of State importance. In the second reading, the first article was so supplemented that the headquarters of national authorities and organisations of State importance of foreign diplomatic missions, foreign consulates, international organisations and representatives of international organisations are determined by law or other act. So it's not just about putting them in the capital. Finally, the proposal was submitted for review to all 193 municipalities. It is possible to list those who have forwarded their opinions on the law on one hand. Therefore, it is difficult to attach to those who want to prevent the adoption of the law. We agree that it is necessary to revise legislation related to the functioning of local communities, particularly the financing of municipalities. Once this is done, the number of open questions will be significantly lower. However, it is also not possible to resolve the issues of incompatible regional development and its consequences in this law. It seems unproductive to us to continuously promote tensions between the municipalities, especially between the capital and the second largest city. Competition between them promotes development. Indignation and alibiicism, however, only inhibit development. The Social Democrats Group will support the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group is next. Ivan Kebrich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the government, Secretary of State! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia, now that we are independent, needs such a law that will embody the city of Ljubljana, which is sort of a center. It's also in the center, however we look from which border, the distance. It is appropriate for all those who, after such or other duties or tasks, have to report in Ljubljana with regard to what is available in Ljubljana and where those offices on which it is dependent. In the parliamentary group, we believe that it is right that - like other countries around the world have a capital and that this is regulated by law - I repeat and stress, we agree that Ljubljana is a city. The essence of the problem, which we are also thinking about in the parliamentary group, lies elsewhere. We believe that the capital belongs to certain functions and for these functions also the Ljubljana Municipality wants and expects certain material resources for the capital of the Republic. In the previous term, if I may recall those who were present at the time, the proposal for the capital city of Ljubljana and the simple justification that the capital needs certain funds from the title since it is visited by foreigners. Then I stepped in and said: it is not necessary to give money for foreigners, to give it for ourselves, for us, and that foreigners who will come to Slovenia, no matter what city, see it arranged, well, aesthetically, with architecture, with restored facades, with vegetables - not because of them, because of us who live in this environment. We agree with the capital in the parliamentary group, but once again I point out that it is certainly expected as the main city of the Republic, although this is not yet clearly indicated, but if we read the media, a lot of things already occur and see where they are expected and what is expected.And it is likely that the capital will not only be expected from the state budget, but also required for its regulation, for certain institutions that must be in the capital - here we fully agree that we should be and remain parliament, so the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is in the capital. It must also be in direct contact with the Government and the National Assembly, in view of the direct links between the executive authority, so it is right that both of these state institutions are both legislative and enforceable, in the main city of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the basic question arises, what other institutions do, since we have a third institution, this is the judiciary, and everything else that is bound by logic, which we oppose, is not necessarily that all seats must be in Ljubljana. We do not believe that the legalisation of the city of Ljubljana as the seat or capital of the Republic is directly linked to centralisation or decentralisation, but we believe that we must leave anything open and that anything other than what I have said must not be written in this law, that the main city of the Republic of Slovenia is also the national assembly and the government, but that everything else does not belong in this law and that any of this is not necessarily stated or that any of this, except those two institutions, is excluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you. Franci Rokavec, position of the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable representative of the Government, representatives of the city of Ljubljana and, of course, Members and Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, from the very beginning, we have advocated the position that it is appropriate for the status of the capital, which is one of the symbols of our statehood, to be regulated by law. We also support the position that it provides for effective, up-to-date and harmonious cooperation between the municipal community and the country to carefully regulate this relationship with the law. In particular, it is appropriate to regulate the relationship in that part which defines the performance of joint or related tasks. The proposer also identified as one of the purposes of the law the provision of the conditions necessary for the smooth functioning of state authorities and foreign diplomatic missions and cannot be disputed in any way. We have a positive assessment of the provisions of the law imposing on the Municipality of Ljubljana the responsibility to take into account the State's interest in the execution of the tasks. At the meetings of the home committee and at the January meeting of the national assembly, the debate raised the dilemmas about the present law as to whether they represented the trends of additional centralisation of the country and whether Ljubljana, as the capital, did indeed have a privileged position. According to the actual assessment of the law, which is ready for third reading, some solutions have not been best implemented. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the last indent of Article 3, which in fact almost gives the absolute domain the organisation and the implementation of the events and the celebration of national importance. It is likely that practice will show that some solutions will also need to be corrected and upgraded. In the parliamentary group, we also reiterate the adoption of this law, and we believe that it would be wise for certain state institutions to locate the country in other major cities in the country and both at the state level, as well as at the symbolic level, to help strengthen the country's polycentric development, thus also making sense the dispersion of certain state institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill will be supported by the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you. Franc Sušnik, position of Slovenian Social Democrats of Slovenia. Slovenian Democratic Parties, I apologize, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u118	Honourable Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister, Honourable Madam Mayor. Slovenian Democrats will vote in favour of the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have repeatedly stressed that we need a law on the capital, but unfortunately the law on the capital, which you have submitted to the parliamentary procedure by Mr. Miran Potrč and Anton Anderlič, is not a law that will satisfactorily resolve or regulate the position of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We have already said that, in our view, this law is earlier a resolution than a law. It does not have the necessary content to satisfactorily regulate the relationship between the State, State institutions and the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that unfortunately this law is not a law which, in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, would satisfactorily define the special status of Ljubljana as the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Regardless of the above, the Slovenian Democrats will vote in favour of the law. In doing so, we point out the following shortcomings, warn and disagree with the administrative establishment of the seats in individual national authorities and institutions, because such an administrative determination could provide an additional incentive to the already predominant centralisation in the Republic of Slovenia. We support and advocate the principle of decentralisation of the functions of the state centre. We are of the opinion that an attempt to regulate the state's and its institutions' relationship to the capital is welcome and necessary, but that the solutions contained in the proposal - as I have already said - are not satisfactory and comprehensive. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group are particularly reminded of the risk of additional burdens on the state budget or the risk of legalising new routes and ways of financing the Ljubljana Municipality, which would only further deepen the already unacceptable relationship between the level of funding of the Ljubljana Municipality compared to other urban municipalities and in particular other municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. This is an indisputable danger that is evident. The proposal does not demarcate or guarantee that this will not happen. We also point to the possibility of intervention and direct intervention by the State in the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Ljubljana as the capital city. Regardless of what I've already said, we're going to support this marriage. We are of the opinion that the above-mentioned proposal by the two proposers is also a response to the poor attitude of this national assembly towards local self-government, which is conditioned, not least, by the fact that we have abolished a commission in the National Assembly to deal with the problem of local self-government as a self-employed body. Even in response to the fact that the competent government service has not prepared an appropriate government proposal that would define the status and role of the capital in the Republic of Slovenia satisfactorily and comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you. Following is the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. It'll be served by my colleague, Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u120	Your Honors are here! The first-signed or one of the bill's proponents started their debate with the correct conclusion that the debate so far had been useful in the context of the first and second readings. We agree with this, because if we look at the content of Article 1 of the law published in the Rapporteur and the content of the proposal prepared for today's reception, we see that there are significant differences. In the basic wishes of the bill's proponents, namely, the Liberal Democracy and the United List, there are the ambitions and aspirations for a fixed definition of all state bodies, both the legislative and the executive and judicial branches of government, and - which, according to our assessment, is also the headquarters of the European Union and the countries' representations. These errors or desires of the applicants are eliminated in the current text, prepared for third reading. We therefore assess that the debate was truly useful, not in full. But progress has been made in the bill. In the National Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that the law is much less harmful than it was in the original phase, but that there are still elements that will cause further centralistic development and elements that are contrary to the wishes and aspirations of the Republic of Slovenia, the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia after the balanced integrated development of Slovenia. However, as I said, I am still personally convinced that in the case of this capital law, it is a pity for the other municipalities or for other parts of our country. Otherwise, I will touch on the law in the shortcomings that we have identified in the National Party through the hearing. In Article 1, which was possible to amend or propose additions, we propose a supplement in the National Party by means of a method of regulation as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that if we applied the dictatorship as proposed and in Article 1 very quickly wrote that Ljubljana is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, this would satisfy the basic aspirations of the applicants. For we fear that the existing Article 1 as referred to by the proponents this time is too extensive and, according to our assessment, is full of unnecessary listing. So we estimate that the solution we offer is acceptable to the National Assembly. There is no objection to these arguments. On the other hand, we are still assessing that the National Assembly did not find sufficient wisdom in the preceding stages of the hearing to amend Article 3 of the Act in question, which speaks or lists the performance of the tasks under the competence of the State authorities. In particular, according to our assessment, when it comes to the first indent, this is to regulate the conditions for the functioning of state bodies and organisations and representations. Further presentation of the country's capital in protocol and promotion matters. According to our assessment, the most controversial at this time in this law are the organisation and implementation of the event and the celebration of state importance. We fear that later enforcement of this law or understanding of this law will lead to the perception of the situation as the exclusive rights of Ljubljana to all these tasks. This will go to the detriment of the rest of our country. We also continue to assess that the scope and location of the acts and programmes referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 should also be better defined in the second paragraph, so that the scope and location of the acts and programmes referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 should be further defined. So that he would actually know the scope and location of these matters. As far as Article 5 is concerned, therefore, next in line, we estimate in the National Party that it would be reasonable to determine, as far as Article 5 remains and, of course, will remain in the envisaged form, fair from the proposer of the material, that, even in the introduction where the explanation is concerned, it would identify such financial consequences, which the explanatory statement says will not be substantially altered in Article 5. And then, of course, in conjunction with Article 8, it provides for an assessment of the financial implications. Therefore, it would make sense, at least in the explanation of the bill, to specify the financial implications set out in Articles 5 and 8. From this and several times both the first-reading debate framework and the second-reading and evaluation of the parent body, I stress once again that it would make sense and, in terms of political hygiene, especially the hygiene of trying to create decentralisation in our country, to amend Article 1 above all. I appeal to the National Assembly to adopt the amendment to Article 1, whether by the Party of Youth or by the Slovenian National Party of Members. The fact is that, according to our assessment, there are still some irregularities or ill-defined cases in the mother of this law and that unfortunately, the implementation of this law will be known for the balanced development of the Republic of Slovenia at the expense of damage or damage to other parts of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. She's a colleague of Silva's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your word. Hello, Ministry of the Interior representative, Mayor's lady, dear colleagues. When, at the second reading, some Members and Members asked me what I was thinking, when I said that the city was probably having different ambitions and I would certainly like to arrange in some act some things in such a way that the relations between the city and the country were clearer and certainly more defined. Why? Probably also because of the ongoing misunderstandings arising from the government-state-city relationship and in particular because the quality of planning and planning itself is in fact the result of the quality of the performance of certain tasks, actions and everything as a result. If I'm more specific. As we know, respected colleagues and colleagues, the research task of our research sector was carried out for the purposes of the assembly and the establishment of this law, on the subject of the normative regulation of the capitals. It included the cities of Vienna, Budapest, Brussels, Lisbon, Helsinki, Luxembourg, Copenhagen. Most countries also have the status of some major cities, such as Porto, Lyon and so on. For example, some of the discussions that have been compared in this National Assembly could still be able to define the status of larger cities, such as Maribor, Nova Gorica, Novo mesto, in the next term. What is a slightly more ambitious approach to the concept of a legal basis for me? A clearer and more precise approach. What does that mean? To clearly define the general area, the general provisions, what should be defined and described and how this work should be organised. How do city quarters come to be? Which of these towns have special status in particular in the capital? Which of these towns have a special status, given the fact that most of the main and public institutions are in them and have a state and protocol character and importance. How and how would these matters be handled? The way and the system of protection for these institutions differs from the way and the system of protection for others and other towns. In this law I would also expect possible other ways of dividing. In general, the role and functions of the mayor would be clearly defined. Because today's function as mayor or mayor of the capital is defined only through the general function of the mayor in the law on local self-government. Most important, however, are the way and the place of funding. The specific tasks and functions would clearly define the function of administration, its organisation, the means of communication between the city administration and the administrative units within the city of competence and finance. In one chapter, we would specifically define the tasks of the police, which in the city has a purely different function in the city than in the countryside. The way I communicate between city administration and administrative units seems so important to me that it is defined in one of the future laws. In particular, because of how and in what way arrangements are made, let's say, the frequency of the agreement and what the protocol is between them, because this is actually very important for achieving certain very important decisions, particularly in the area and regulating the space. Clearly, much of this is regulated by the laws of the field. But we do have a lot of things that only characterize the city. That is why it must certainly be written: How and how is the order determined, which are special security measures, permits for parades, parades, parades, protest demonstrations, celebrations and all other public joint exits and those events linked to the history of the city of Ljubljana to the city as the capital and to other solemn events which are connected to national holidays and events. Let us just remember how many disagreements and how many conflicts there were between the city and the state, perhaps between the government, government commissions and city commissions, when various celebrations were formed, not only jubilee ones, but also those regular annual ones. For example, I would like to say that, say in Paris, the mayor also has this possibility and is subordinated to him by the police. For the area of general and public security, in particular for the protection of state institutions. In Paris, the mayor also lays down the amount of fines for non-compliance with the measures and for all other infringements. For the costs of police operations in Paris, for the purpose of the city, the state covers, and this is specifically defined in the budget and in the annual contracts. It is very clear, it is very visible and is not left to annual negotiations between the Ministry and the county. It would also be good to define clearly and concretely what exceptions are and when the expected overruns of certain budget lines are allowed. The number of such cases, such as when either Ljubljana or the government, or when individual ministries have exceeded budgetary amounts due to unclear competences and, in particular, because of vaguely defined and unaccounted for contractual obligations, etc. That is why I think it is important to define, in particular, how and how, how this is determined in contractual relations. In our case, some things are so much more defined by sectoral legislation, such as space regulation, building legislation, long-term plans and, finally, very complicated legislation to obtain consensus and legislation for spatial regulatory conditions. It is certain that the ambitions of one city, such as Ljubljana, with a great tradition, and that some things, in particular those that have a longer period of implementation, are very stable. In the absence of clarity and instability, it is often the case that certain investments are either poorly made or that they are often decided to be carried out or that public debates are held, which are repeatedly unconstructive, ineffective and barren. Remember the National Investment, the National University Library, and not least the last investment of the stadium, which is certainly not and will not only be for Ljubljanans, but will actually benefit all citizens of Slovenia. Finally, how and how the role of mayors or mayors would be regulated. Look, for example, in Rome, the mayor is also the commander, chief and president of the presidency. If we were to go to regionalisation, it would certainly be good to arrange this. With regard to what the mayor could still be and what roles and functions he could perform, it could list very much, from municipal to health, the capital has many such specifics. However, I wish to address only some of the basic objectives that I believe are important and have already been regulated by certain sectoral treaties. The law is intended to regulate the identification of the urban area, the preservation and valorisation of cultural, archaeological and artistic heritage, with particular emphasis on certain areas of the city. This is also currently, you know, at the stage of the confirmation of the agreement between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Ministry of Culture. It is said that in practice some things are still being done. To ensure effective environmental protection, with particular emphasis on certain areas of the city. Why environmental protection and a clean environment? Ljubljana, together with its reserves and water resources, is not only important for citizens but also for citizens of all Slovenia. Adapting transport infrastructure, especially railways and buses - last but not least, you need to know that every day comes to Ljubljana from surrounding and other municipalities around 75,000 other citizens. It is said that there is probably something to be done here in the field of transport. Adaptation of work to the benefit of congress and fair activities. Arrangements for the appropriate position of international institutions with headquarters in the capital. I listed only some of the ambitions that could, for example, be realized in a very advanced and completed law. This law shows how and how we are capable of talking to each other and how capable we are of reaching consensus on this level. I expect and believe that in the next reference the National Assembly will be able to complement some of these very ambitious desires in such a basic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you. A colleague of Franz Kangler's has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. It makes me laugh now that I have listened to my fellow Member, Silva Crnugelj, who has actually made a secret of what is behind this law; I will comment on this a little later. Of course, I am aware that Slovenia, as a country, has the capital, that we need the capital and that we also need the law for the capital. In the constitution we wrote that we have the capital, that this is the municipality of Ljubljana. I do not know what comments were made by the Government, for which it stressed that it had aligned them with the applicant. I don't know what those comments were, because we didn't get any comments on the Internal Policy Committee. The representative of the Government also said that this law would grant a system of negotiation and partnership both between the Ljubljana Municipality and the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I am asked, does this mean that there has been no agreement and partnership between the local community and the government so far? Does this mean we're going to give someone a privileged position with this law? Other municipalities and all other municipalities were put in such a desperate position as to be on the brink of bankruptcy. I'm very disappointed because a lot of those who signed this law called me a patriot. But the fact is, it is certain individuals who are working politically in this country and who, however you work in this national council, are forcing me to think and work as a local patriot for where I come from. Isn't there a great privilege if you're home in the capital today, the capital. Why am I saying this? It would be good for my colleague Potrč to listen to me, and some of his colleagues, because I come from where the mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Mr Sovič, has major problems in the area of cultural financing. And not just the mayor of the municipality, Mr. Sovic. If we asked the Mayor of the Municipality of Nova Gorica or Celje, Ptuj or Koper, he would have the exact same concerns and views as I would have presented them myself. This law, which we have before us today, would be acceptable to me if we adopted the amendment of the Slovenian National Party or the Party of Young Slovenia to Article 1. I'd be very acceptable, maybe even support him. However, these loops, which are placed inside and what I have heard today from my colleague, Silva Črnugelj, who listed a number of tasks that the local community must carry, make me feel that I cannot support this law. Comrade Potts, I respect you as a proponent, but I am sure that despite local patriotism, we will do absolutely nothing to bring into this National Assembly a law on the financing of urban municipalities. In this way we could also help yours, ours, my mayor, Boris Sovič from the Municipality of Maribor, from the municipality of Nova Gorica, Celje and elsewhere. We are all well aware of and know how the municipalities are financed, that is through income and compensation. Whether it is worth 100,000 personal income in the city of Maribor, if, on a big question, Ljubljana, where all institutions and all institutions are and I am aware that the government, the national assembly, ministries must be in Ljubljana and be in Ljubljana, but the average personal income and the inflow to the city budget is much higher than in one of the city municipalities, such as Maribor. Comparatively, Comrade Runt, you'll hear. The municipality of Maribor collects only 19 billion budget funds. Municipality of Ljubljana 61. And it is true that there are 61, I do not oppose it, thank God, but it is necessary to ensure through the law financing of the municipalities that what we have already adopted in the National Assembly, including the law on more coherent regional development, must be done in a fair manner, not only to the municipalities, but also to all the other municipalities. And this is where we get to the big breakup. And my opinion is, if you live in the middle of the capital today, in the middle of the capital, there is one great privilege, especially in terms of unemployment. We spoke yesterday about the law on local self-government. Many debaters from all parties pointed to some differences between one centre and another. I also asked a question at my last meeting on Monday because there are even differences in two autonomous fully autonomous organisations, such as the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana, where funds are shared where research sectors are called various representatives [[from the University of Ljubljana were 48 appointed and 4 appointed from the University of Maribor]] . And if we go to the Municipality of Pesnica, the local community of Pernica or Jerena or Jakob or Posnica, where unemployment is the most present, for example, the United List is quite strong in this congregation. Will you, fellow applicants, continue to care for and try to ensure in this mandate whether we will try to adjust the development, more consistent development, all the urban municipalities with development in the capital city or the Municipality of Ljubljana? It's too much to say because we're obviously running into deaf ears, but I'm going to support the amendment to Article 1, because I think it's very important. It will also depend on whether I support the law or not. But I appeal to my colleague Potrate, who waves with her hand, as if she doesn't care what happens to hers, my mayor in the Municipality of Maribor, Mr. Sovic, and all the other mayors in the municipalities of Slovenia, who face the problem of financing the municipalities. That's a serious problem. And these differences will have to be reduced in such a way or other, and here I also expect your support from all those Members who come from the Municipality of Ljubljana. I would like to experience this in this mandate and I would also like to experience that we are moving in relation to Article 1 as my colleague Potrč stated in the second reading that he would be willing to support the move of some institutions outside Ljubljana throughout Slovenia. Let's put the state council in Celje, and put the constitutional court in Koper, and give the Supreme Court to Maribor, have room, accept the law. I'll write it, I'll propose it. Once again, I have nothing against Ljubljana. Now I would like to say the essence of what stabbed me the most and what was mentioned by my colleague Silva. These are water resources that are important for the whole country not only for the city of Ljubljana. In what congregation, though, are water resources not important for the whole country? Does this mean that healthy water can only be consumed in Ljubljana and everyone else can drink with such or other chemicals? In each congregation, water is important for the country. The stadium, you mentioned your colleague Silva, the stadium. You mentioned the stadium. Whether it is shameful to say that the national stadium should be built in Celje, where the mayor of the municipality of Celje, Mr Bojan Šrot, with the municipal council, has built it without greater support from the state. The Ministry of Education, as far as I know, helped something, but in a small percentage. Is this a problem for this country that someone from Ljubljana or from Maribor is taking to Celje for a game? Does she have to announce this, colleague Silva, as the president of the football association said years ago, as long as he is president, there will be all the matches in Ljubljana. You mentioned the bus station. Which municipality does not have a bus station where people from other congregations drive to that city. Those people also spend money, go shopping in the city, in those shops. I do not agree with you, colleague Silva, that this is one of those little ones that you would like to get through through the capital law. That's what you said. You were at the train station. More municipalities have a railway station. Ljubljana cannot be a priority or have a privileged position because the main city is that the railway station under special cover will be financed or co-financed by the State. For me, all three railway stations or four in city halls are fifth, and perhaps even in Maribor, Celje and Murska Sobota are exactly the same as in Ljubljana. People ride, they come, they go, and that can't be the reason. The infrastructure railway is state-owned, and that's another problem. I invite you to Maribor, come and look at our Maribor train station, and see yours in Ljubljana, which is very beautiful in marble, with us in very poor condition and I hope that it will be received, given that Maribor and Šentilje has always been a door or entrance to Europe, both for the Balkans, both for the east and the west. One of the biggest doors. I cannot agree with you with such views. I believe that the problem is in Ljubljana, in agreement within Ljubljana's policy, how and how to get to the football stadium. But that's not the problem with the capital. That's the national stadium. Push others aside, because if it is not in Ljubljana everything is wrong. This is reflected in the human resources policy of this government, which I have repeatedly warned, including the Prime Minister, even in the recruitment of supervisory councils and could also be listed. Believe me, we're very sensitive. Some of us come to a sensitive area where the city’s municipalities can no longer breathe and live. My mayor, Boris Sovič, has major problems with the composition of the budget of the municipality of Maribor, both in the cultural field of infrastructure and in any other area. And once again, I appeal to you to try at least this amendment to Article 1. It is clear to me, once again, that Ljubljana is the capital and let it remain. Let the state administration remain in Ljubljana, at least as I understand it, the government, the ministers, the ministries, to keep the state assembly in Ljubljana. Some institutions, however, can move across Slovenia, in particular some state agencies set up by ministries for the purposes of the European Union. Slovenia is so small - if in Germany the entire government's national assembly can move from one big city to another big city and the constitutional court can move out of the capital, I hope that this will not be a problem in this young country as well. I therefore once again appeal to you to support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia or the National Party to Article 1, as this will not be a disaster for this law. But those who think there's something else behind this law, I appeal that you don't think about it publicly or loudly. With this you are introducing intolerance and unrest between us Members, who come from such sensitive and different parts of Slovenia. And I invite everyone to go to Dolenjska, Primorsko, Prekmurje, Styria or Koroška to take a look at the places that are very, very neglected.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u125	She's a magician's colleague. Maja Potter has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Mr. Kangler, I don't know what I've earned so much of your attention that every rare visit to this meeting room is accompanied by a mention of my name. The theory of understanding non-verbal communication is very rich and by your speech you prove that you can read my thoughts. Let me explain. The swing with the hand certainly did not mean disrespect for the city of Maribor and disrespect and disrespect for the mayor of the municipality. And I would ask you to correct that in your own mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you. My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u128	I'm not going to replicate, but I'm just going to explain to my colleague Patrati, given that she challenged me to one of the last meetings about some sympathy or that I'm cute. And now I'm saying that it's probably because her name stays in my ears repeatedly and I find that there's also a need to challenge someone to start thinking out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u129	Colleague Silva, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I apologize for interrupting this "epp" between my colleague Potrato and Kangler. However, Mr Kangler, I apologize to you for having some of my wishes and visions, as well as some others, so understood that you felt that the city of Maribor was threatened. But today we are talking about the capital and we are talking about the capital law, and somehow after seven or eight years we have achieved that it is so written, and so we have contributed quite a lot of energy and desire. I'd like to apologize about the water resources. Ljubljana lies between the two confluences of Sore and Sava, Ljubljana and Sava. And this also means something, we don't have Drava, but I think these water resources are quite something, and actually there's a lot of water flowing through Ljubljana, both of them. If you misunderstood me, I'm actually sorry. With regard to the legal provisions and all those contractual implementations that may be the result of this law, I strongly hope that the discussion that we have had in this national assembly in relation to this law will actually contribute to the fact that government officials and, finally, city officials will also be able to gather so much positive energy that they will overcome all conflicts in some of the emphasis and projects and yet come to some really good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u131	Let's move on to the debate. My colleague Roman Jakič is given the floor to continue with the regular part of the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Madam Mayor, colleagues and colleagues. Every time he puts his word in this assembly on Ljubljana, you force me to be ashamed that I am a Ljubljanaer and not, on the contrary. I am also proud to live in Ljubljana as Rudi Može, to live in Maribor, or Dorian Marsich to live in Cyprus. Indeed, Ljubljana offers certain privileges to us who live in Ljubljana. There are also handicaps. Mr Kangler, young families in Maribor, for example, can pay between €100 and €150 per square meter for walled parcels. But it's an interface. The city of Ljubljana is indeed a good host to all others and, of course, to all of us. If that is not the case, then it is really necessary to accept Mr Shrot's offered glove. Last we heard of the stadium today, we heard or know that the athletic stadium is recognized as a state facility, in Celje and also Vid Kavtičnik is not far from being the best handball player in Slovenia. And then we move there. This, of course, was said in a joke because I think Mr. Schrot was joking too when he said that the National Assembly would move to Celje On Tuesday, I attended a meeting of European parliamentarians and observers in Brussels with the mayors gathered in the Euro City. It is called this because all the mayors or all the capitals and 95 other cities of the European Union are here. And, of course, among them, I took a little look at some of the major cities that have a marriage. Above all, everyone agreed, including the mayors of those small towns, that they were the headquarters of state bodies, organisations, foreign diplomatic representations and international organisations. That's why I don't see, or I'm surprised, that in the debate, we always say, I support this law, but then there are a number of concerns, I think. Some concerns are, of course, justified, but a kind of, kind of concerns that I believe are based on, some inexhaustible source of jealousy that is irrational. I cannot help it if Ljubljana is the capital and it is not Maribor, unless of course we decide. And that's why these comparisons that Mr. Kangler said today seem incorrect to me when they speak by absolute numbers. That's right. The city of Maribor collects 19 billion, the city of Ljubljana collects 60 billion. At the same time, however, Mr Kangler does not say that there are 2.17 times more inhabitants and residents in Ljubljana. In any case, I will support the bill, as it is written for a simple reason, because I do not see the fears that have been discussed for years since the law on the principal place in the procedure has been debated. From this I see that Ljubljana is the capital and administrative centre of Ljubljana. In an agreement between the State and the City of Ljubljana, it will be necessary to regulate the conditions for the functioning of the State authorities and organisations and the representations for the performance of the tasks important for the development of the capital, the presentation of the capital and the state in protocol and promotional matters. Finally, Ljubljana is not protocol itself, Brdo pri Kranju is a place where these protocols take place. Presentation of the country's capital in matters of interstate and international cooperation precisely because international institutions are choosing and here and we cannot command foreign diplomatic representations to go to Celje or Maribor, because we also open our diplomatic representations in the main cities of foreign countries, because in the main cities of foreign countries there are diplomatic representations and the headquarters of state organisations and authorities. And I see from this law, of course, that we will still have to agree on the spatial acts and development programmes of the state and the city council. Since the priorities of Ljubljana are sometimes stopped due to the country's priorities after construction, I don't know some state buildings, the black-and-white case in Ljubljana needed much more building units or apartments that were insufficient in Ljubljana. And of course, in this law, in Article 6, I see that we will negotiate or negotiate in the areas of environmental protection, the use of space, public security, transport security, urban transport of eceter, eceter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u133	Comrade Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u134	I'm replicating because my colleague Jakič named me by my last name. I think I have the right to a replica of the chairman. And I don't want to say this to my buddy Jakic, but usually when you step on your tail, it's like that. But colleague Jakič, I fully agree with you as you said. That wasn't even an issue. I also said that I am aware that government institutions, including embassies, consular representations and everything else we have in Ljubljana and must be here, in the capital. That's not even an issue. In this part, I repeat, when you said that a young family in Maribor could buy for such a tolar, but the square meter of the apartment in Ljubljana is like this. You may have bought in Ljubljana, but not in Maribor at all. Because in Maribor, a young family barely deserves the survival of a fellow Jakič. Since wages are, if you compare them, take statistics, compare how much and what kind of personal net earnings per capita in Ljubljana or any other place I will not say Maribor again in Slovenia. And what is unemployment, 20% in Maribor or 25 or 23% in Ruša or Šentilje, all around Maribor. And then who's easier to buy and how. But it is true that it is also necessary for you to ask yourself why Ljubljana is so expensive. Housing is more expensive in Ljubljana and some services are more expensive than all or most of Europe's major cities, because there is too much concentration of capital, economy and politics at one end and all the forces at one end, in one centre and prices in this way are rising and will continue to grow until decentralisation starts in this country is a little more active than it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u135	I would like to invite all the discussers to return to the law. And I give my word to my colleague, Sasha Pechet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u136	I think that through the debate in the last few moments, we have touched on the real points of this law. According to my assessment, the law goes to the detriment of the remaining parts of Slovenia right through the passivity to the problems of other ends and that is exactly what is known. Two speakers before me, Mrs Crnugelj and Mr Jakič, raised the dilemma that we are talking about Ljubljana and that we must not mix the rest of our country. That's exactly the problem. Because we always have to destroy or exclude the rest of our country. I must also express my agreement with my colleague Kangler. It is a shame that someone claims that the problem of drinking water is exclusively the problem of Ljubljana, as if we do not have such basic necessities elsewhere. And I think we should at least apologize. We all have the same problems with infrastructure or whatever. However, the fact is that this country does not have or knows the priority of legislation. We know that in the local self-government the area of the municipal municipalities is completely misplaced, but because the policy at a certain point in time suited to solve the exclusive issue of the capital of Ljubljana, to which no one denies its status, we have come to this, according to my assessment, an acrobat event. However, we leave behind all the statistics to show what the real priority of this country is. Never did the proponents, except with the exception of Mr Kangler, talk about regional differences, regional statistics which, on the one hand, show such wages, social misery and all other indicators. Nor development statistics, development potential, and how much this country invests in individual regions, and of course not on institutional statistics. According to our assessment or knowledge of this statistics is exclusively at the summit, i.e. in positive indicators, the city of Ljubljana. Because the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are leading a passive policy to other parts of our country. I am pleased that at least a few Members from other parts of Slovenia hope to highlight the name of their place. However, the fact is that more than three quarters of the sites have not been exposed in this National Assembly since they follow government policy, the passiveness of individual ends, because they follow the policy of Mrs Silva Montenegro, who sees the issue of drinking water exclusively in Ljubljana. However, I would like to point out my wish if the policy of the United List of Social Democrats can be detrimental to other cities if it is aware of the existence of other cities. And in connection with the speeches about respect for the mayors of individual cities, yes, my mayor is Mr Boris Sovič, but I personally assess that respect for Sovič or the mayor and respect for a particular city can be shown in the first stage in this way that the same is said when a person is around him and when he is in this State Assembly in Ljubljana. But all too often there are these differences in defending a particular position when you are in a specific location while in Ljubljana, and this position is quite the opposite. Above all, I would like to get involved because I think that, without realizing it, it has partly come to the right conclusion of colleague Jakič - I emphasise, probably unaware. Indeed, price differences in land prices and real estate prices, and this is not the only one, the problem is also in parking areas, they are exceptional in Ljubljana. Prices are high, we're all aware of that. But that is exactly what you do with this law and regional policy, as introduced by the Liberal Democracy with the assistance of the United List of Social Democrats. However, there is something else to be taken into account in all of this - in your interpretation only of the first work, Comrade Jakič, we are under the law that all institutions in this city and land are much higher evaluated and evaluated than at other parts of the country. But there is also a question, and this is very important, the issue of purchasing power. And that's a problematic question. In Ljubljana, purchasing power is much stronger than in other parts, and this shows the misery of our country, because we do not know what one law is doing. The Main City Act, as you proposed for the first hearing, which established the headquarters of all institutions in this country, would further raise the price of all land and allow even greater standard of living in Ljubljana. But we are neglecting other ends and this is the issue of this national assembly. According to our assessment, this is much more than just a question of the status of the capital in relation to the capital law. The status itself doesn't even matter. The status of Ljubljana itself is already defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and we are all aware of this. But it's about the activities that monitor this status. And worse still, it is the passiveness of this policy to other parts of our country. And until you are aware of this and until individuals are ashamed that you are coming from other parts and from the municipal councils of Maribor to defend positions that correspond to the city of Maribor, and when you come to Ljubljana, you will be doing quite differently, we will not do so for so long what would lead us to a real path to achieve a balanced development in this country. This should be in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u137	I have two replicas announced. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u138	Just a correction of the instructions. I don't think Mr. Pece consciously wanted to understand my debate. I was talking about the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia and not the law on coherent regional development in which it is necessary to resolve all the issues raised by my colleague Peca. And, of course, it is also wrong and it is necessary to correct this reference. This law does not make it illegal for all the seats of the public authorities to be located in Ljubljana. If Mr Pece had looked at it until the end of Article 1, he would have seen it read: "If so laid down by law or other acts." And in this National Assembly, we have already transferred some state bodies or seats of state authorities by law or by means of acts outside the city of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you. And a colleague of Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u140	I'm quitting because my colleague Jakič has already told me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u141	There's no reason to replicate the replica yet. [[...]] Colleague Silva Nigga, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u142	I said I'm giving up the replica because Mr. Jakič said everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u143	We continue the debate. Mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u144	Obviously, the debate will now continue in the direction of ensuring coherent regional development, but we are talking about the country's capital. Mr Kebrič, my fellow Member, spoke about the opportunity for the city, so that we will not think about giving the opportunity for foreigners in particular. By providing good services in Ljubljana, a good offer for international institutions or anywhere else, of course we will benefit our citizens the most. That is the principle, the true principle of looking at development, to offer good for the one who comes and he will pay you well. It also mentions hotel services, it also means shopping services, railways, urban transport, trams, administrative centre with railways and more. As Mr Kangler said, Maribor has a good railway station, Ljubljana does not. The city of Ljubljana is not to blame for this or Maribor because Ljubljana does not have good infrastructure. It is also not Ljubljana's fault that there is much wrong in Maribor, but the administration is responsible there. It is also not the mayor of the city who is to blame for not having a stadium in Ljubljana, but rather the city authority. But that's logical. Someone's threatening someone. Finally, if there is no member of the National Assembly from a region or from a city, it is not yet said that the city will be abandoned. Take a look at the New Town. It does not have a Member and the worst is in the State aid structure, so it has the smallest flow of resources, but it has shown this elasticity and development potential. Ten years ago, Maribor voted 12 billion in TAM. Where did that money stay? Across the border, somewhere in Klagenfurt. This means that the country does not care about infrastructure such as roads, railways and so on. Of course, it is important that there is also a possibility through such a law that some centres or international institutions have a place in other places, and we must also ensure that in Article 1. The symbolic importance of the city of Ljubljana is ensured through the most important three or four institutions, namely government and state councils. The rest, of course, given the needs of rationality, given the sense, prudence, cultural characteristics, I do not know what else can be put at the other end, or in other places, which will also ensure coherent economic development in this regard. As we have also seen from the presentation by a colleague of Montenegro, I do not think she will need to be replicated. She cited a huge number of tasks to be carried out. Through this instrument, such as this law, we will not be able to carry them out well because it does not have the tools necessary to do so. This is more a declaration, a guidance on cooperation between the city and the state. This is not a sufficient condition for the neural points of the country associated with the city of Ljubljana to be resolved. After all, it also appeared in the placement of art academyes. Because there is not enough space for this, because there is not enough capacity that Ljubljana should have and should have within the framework of spatial plans. Of course he has nothing to offer. And then the proposal was made by Domžal to ensure this in Domžal. I don't mind, but in this way cities can also compete with each other, who can offer something, even in terms of human resources potential, spatial plans and more. This law should be adopted. Sadly, though, it is empty and will probably be of no use, nor will it be of any harm if we accept it. Another is likely in the crowd of those who will not contribute to Slovenian statehood or the Slovenian capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Comrade Boyan Kontic. Ivan Kebrich, you don't have a word for it. There's no replica. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u146	I'm just warning you, my time is running out. Thank you very much. I already am, he's probably just like the president of the business commission, he's been limited for the third time this week, but that's just the way he is. I have already announced my support for this bill in the general treatment of the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, although in recent years this so-called restaurant patriotism, which has already been mentioned, has expanded considerably. Outside the capital city of Ljubljana, it is extremely popular to speak of the capital as being responsible for all the problems that arise without the slightest self-criticism. The easiest is a critical look and finger to point at Ljubljana as a symbol of the Slovenian authorities. Many warn that the adoption of this law will only strengthen the existing situation. I do not believe that this is the case, and that deciding where one of the institutions will be established will be left to the law or to other acts which determine the content of the functioning of this institution. Each country has a capital within which state and local functions are intertwined and this intertwining needs to be regulated. This law commits the country, on the one hand, to connecting with the local community, and at the same time commits the local community to take into account the particular interest of the State, which is linked to the function of the capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u148	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I have already mentioned several times that I believe that we need the law on the capital, of course. And that this law would be such as to contribute to some fruitful cohabitation of the capital and the state. Regrettably, this law places too much emphasis on the fact that the capital is the seat of all institutions and does not allow even the slightest hope and possibility for other parts of the country to participate in some way in what falls from the state tables. Indeed, other countries, which are very democratically regulated, have divided institutions in other places. And I think that Slovenia could also be such a case. See, before this law is implemented, I think the law on equitable regional development should be implemented. We know it's a dead letter on paper. This marriage could be a twin with this policy and this law. But here I can agree or I have to complement my colleague, Pečet, when he spoke about equitable regional development. About the passivity of other places of Slovenia. Not only are they in a passive position. In Slovenia, Slovenia has two speeds or higher speeds, unfortunately reality. Not only that, important parts of Slovenia are in reverse. Developmental declines, do not develop, Prekmurje, Sorska valley, Dravinska valley Haloza and so on. These places are falling apart. And until the Slovenian authorities are aware that this must be done hand in hand, because this is the only way to achieve harmonious development, this will be bad for this country. See this developmental and economic sub-nutrientity of other places sometimes also leads to headless actions and reactions of individual mayors or municipal administrations. Two days ago, we heard from our colleague Trophynik that the European Parliament's Regionalism Committee had adopted an amendment to change the Lisbon-Kim Corridor route from Prague not to Ormož and Murski Sobota, but through Maribor, Graz-Budapest. And he mentions that the municipality of Maribor participated here. It's a headless act, if that's true, headless. Because it's going to hurt Maribor, too. I can't imagine such a headless act. And it's a shame that something like this is born in the heads of officials of other city halls. And look, this law exudes some developmental egoism of Ljubljana. In fact, the state and city of Ljubljana are not aware or the Ljubljana authorities that Slovenia needs to develop harmoniously. And, of course, they have certain frustrations in Maribor and elsewhere. Previously, a colleague of mine, Pottre, protested that colleague Kangler mentioned her name. I believe that colleague Kangler was simply coming out of the semantics of the significance of the last name of colleague Potrat. Námreč, concerning the Municipality of Ljubljana. In fact, the loss is actually the way the Ljubljana Municipality operates.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u149	Comrade Jerovšek, please refrain from such [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u150	See, SIB Banka, Orion, all this is actually a loss of state resources in [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u151	Please refrain from such comparisons.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u152	And it's sort of a figure of speech, some metaphor he probably had in his head, and he's just using it. [[...]] It must also be said that the empty statement is incorrect that those who are critical of Ljubljana's over-representative role in a developmental sense, which has the best developmental potential to be given some kind of impression of separatism, as if they wanted to transfer the capital somewhere else. We absolutely agree that Ljubljana is the capital and must remain the capital, mainly because of its geographical position and its historical role. However, Ljubljana has many advantages because Ljubljana is the capital, but we cannot agree to become a city of Slovenian elitism. Of course, there are all the elites here, but to emphasize and accelerate this elitism at the expense of other parts of the country, we cannot agree with that. In this country, this train of uniform regional development must be moved sooner or later. In this country, the situation has not recovered or has deteriorated dramatically, and I hope that the amendment to Article 1 will also be adopted, allowing for some minimum aspirations of other places in Slovenia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u153	My friend Peca has a replica of the previous statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u154	Respectable present. First, allow me to express my dissatisfaction with your leadership, because you are actually separating Members from those who have the opportunity to give a replica to a replica and to those who are not allowed to do so. As far as the speaker is concerned, we have a specific starting point and, of course, a different starting point. As far as the complementary opinion is concerned. I agree that the failure of the Liberal Democracy and its representative is mainly in a narrow, separate view between the law on the capital and the law on regional development. Because the fact is that until there is a sense of importance and the connection of both laws, so long will all positive statistics on the city of Ljubljana and negative statistics on the part of other municipalities and this inability to perceive related laws increase this difference. As long as the largest party representatives look separately at the legal matter and say that the content does not touch other content, we will not be able to talk about even development in our country for so long. Unfortunately, one of the speakers of the Liberal Democracy also found that there was a difference in purchasing power, but he did not see why this difference in purchasing power was emerging and probably due to a lack of connection between individual laws. However, I do not agree with you, Comrade Jerovšek, when you say that it is considered a word play, an expression of loss for the city council of Ljubljana. I'll fix you. There is also a loss in the municipality of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u155	[[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] I warned him, ma'am, Majda Potter. [[...]] Once again, I ask you to be right in the debate and to discuss the law, the capital of Slovenia, about Ljubljana. Leopold Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm a little sad. Unlike you, who thinks it's funny, I don't think it's funny. That seems really stupid to me, and I think that's a serious question. This distraction, who's right, who's wrong, what Ljubljana has, what Maribor has, what they don't have, is, forgive me, funny. Funny with both positions, the position of Ljubljana and the position of Maribor. We're not talking about this today, we're talking about the capital law today. The state must have the capital and the state I think it is good that it has a law on the capital. And, it has no law on Ljubljana and it is right that it does not have it, but it has a law on the capital of the country of Slovenia, which is Ljubljana. Ljubljana plays in this film only when it is the capital. He does not play in this film and in this law when he has problems like the city of Ljubljana, when he has problems as a city municipality, but only as the capital when he performs a function for this country also on behalf of this country, because of this, he has some problems and has some advantages. That is why the state has some obligation to this capital and also expects something from this capital, and this must be regulated by this law and nothing else. The law, I hope he's handling this. I think he's close to that. All that we had during the debate and what we are hearing today about who did or did not do something is over and meaningless and has absolutely nothing to do with what we need to discuss and accept today. This is, once again, the law on the capital that regulates relations between the state and the capital, which, as the constitution says, Ljubljana; but it could be something else and it could be something else. And all other things have to be regulated by other laws - the law on municipal municipalities, the law on regions, landscapes and when we have the whole package packed, we will have more than just this law on the capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! So what has been said today is not only a proposal for a law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is unfortunately a proposal for a law on the capital and the administrative centre - this is a disputed, respected colleague and colleague. And that is, of course, because there has been no coalition in this country for some time now, and it does not work, nor does the government, and it responds appropriately, as Members of this ruling coalition have to. Therefore, non-consistency laws are passed in this National Assembly and after the opposition has seriously warned that it threatens, but not only threatens, then carries out a referendum and the Slovenians and Slovenians decide otherwise, then of course you realize that you have done something wrong, but in fact there is no correctional exam. I hope this situation will no longer last. I would only remind you that you probably forgot to propose a law to run against Ljubljana, not Zagreb, against Croatia. When this government decided to re-analyse what was produced in Ljubljana to the glass holding companies and to this administrative centre, it made a mistake. Therefore, even today, someone in this debate is simply saying some inappropriateness, which is, of course, in a normal Parliament, if they had a normal coalition to agree on and bring harmonised legislation to the national assembly, of course there would not be. It is therefore sad that outside Ljubljana and outside the central Slovenian region, in fact, citizens and citizens have no employment opportunities in any state institutions, no jobs, no roads and no other infrastructure. And what has happened recently has been done largely on behalf of those outside the region or outside the center. What would help decentralise development is not just a law on coherent regional development! Yes, because you accepted it, as this government coalition proposed it already in its previous mandate and adopted it in approximately the same composition. And what's the result after five years? Zero, point, zero, or even greater centralization. What would help to further develop as a flow of funds from the holding company in this area, and that's what happens, so that's what you picked up. You have also centralised this in Ljubljana, and on the other hand, what can happen is what happens, such as the purchase of aircraft, the police, Orion, SIBs etc., etc. Of course it's a waste account. 60 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u159	My friend Puksich!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u160	60 billion budget, unwarranted by the city council. [[...]] But it does because such a law on 35% of income has been passed, which brings such huge numbers and, of course, wasteful behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u162	President, thank you so much for your word. I was one of the few left or right MPs in this Parliament who wrote a new country's birth certificate. I am proud of this new country, and I am proud of all the Members who sat with me in four mandates, because the work done by Parliament has been difficult and hard to deal with, more than any Parliament in the world. After 300 laws had to be made from morning to evening, and in this mountain we succeeded in celebrating on May 1st. It seems to me that we have also considered this law over the past years, and when we adopted it, we said that it was not a key law on the capital for Slovenia, but that we should build a house on the ground, not at the antenna. First about the local communities we did, then about the city municipalities and then about the capital. Even then, the National Assembly adopted such a decision, but of course we do not respect it in this rush and forget it. That is why I think now that we will be predetermined and when we are talking about this project in general, the following must be said. I will support this law because I think it's necessary for the capital. But I will support it with a very, very bitter taste, especially because of the respectable Members and Members coming from that part of Slovenia, you know that we as legislators should do more in the field in order for Slovenia to develop more evenly. We will probably not do so in this mandate, but in the coming term it will probably be necessary to do so. And whoever comes and goes back to this Parliament from this city, please keep this in your heart if we want to develop Slovenia more evenly. Let us develop it, not with 150 regions, under quotations, but with Slovenia three countries, because influence, capital, political power and decision-making will also be shared, as is shared in the countries around us. This is how we enter the European Union, into the Union of Regions, failed and with a great legal fragmentation of Slovenia. I find it terrible when neighbors from Austria come to talk to Styria or from Italy to Primorsko. The picture is probably similar and the strong influence of capital centralisation, the concentration of political power as in Ljubljana. The mayor obeys her when she manages all these things, and we need to support these things. But it is up to us, including all the parties who are afraid to divide Slovenia into three countries, because then we would also look at who will get political influence there - that's the first thing - how would political influence, money decision and all the other things move a little into other countries and through these countries in these regions. So it seems to me that in this regard we would have done more inappropriately for our country Slovenia if now, before we break up, we had adopted a law that would speak of what I know, the law on Slovenia as a country of three countries, could have two or something like that. Other things are simply not defined by European legislation and we have to play roughly the same guitar as those in the European Union. Look, Italy is divided into regions, Austria is divided into countries, and everyone else. We have funds - if you are interested, I can even tell you that from cohesion funds, in the period 2000-2006, Spain received €43 billion, Italy €28 billion, Germany €28 billion, Greece and Portugal for 20 billion. With us, as we are divided, all this money is centralized here, where we are now residing, and then not divided so that according to the statistical regions and data we have, the most developed belong to one part, but to the rest perhaps 10 or 20, but shared in a ratio of 60:40, which, looking through the eyes of mathematics, is absolutely impossible, as well as that the poorest places in Koroskem, Prekmurje, Haloz, part of Dolenjska, Notranjska, will be evenly developed against Montenegro. It's impossible, ladies and gentlemen. And this political power now held by one wider region is nothing. And do not say that there is only one party, or positions or opposition, here we will have to step together as Slovenians and make about the division of Slovenia as the neighbouring countries have, because we will live with them and share this space with them. And if we get messy, it's going to happen to us that we're just going to become an easy prey of foreign capital and have an impact on our territory. For the end, once again, I will support the marriage, it is necessary, and I am proud to have the capital. However, I am speaking in the form of a will - probably for the last time in this House - that anyone who will be squandering benches in the next term will not be able to avoid dividing Slovenia into similar countries or regions as neighbours have. And I think the time has come, after all the indicators we now have in the statistical regions, that this great impact and concentration of capital, political power, programmes and everything else that is here will have to be distributed a little bit across this country. NUTS 1 is a country, NUTS 2 is now a country again. We have options because they've dropped the criteria to 800,000 inhabitants, two to three countries. However, as far as NUTS 3 is concerned, we have the possibility of Europe admitting 12 to us, perhaps even 13 thefts. If we work in our own way and in disagreement with others, we will have it according to the standard classification for statistics of certain creatures that will exist for the European Union and the second thing for what we will have for ourselves. One more time, and then I'll finish. It seems to me that Parliament and all the parties in it, in this period three times after five hundred years, what our ancestors came here in ten years and a few more years, has done more than anyone has done. But the situation in which we are now, because it has given priority to something other than this, has led to the need to act also in order to obtain once also, not the law on coherent regional development, because almost all resources will be spent on bureaucracy, or all resources will remain in the centres of power that will have the development agenda, but that the actual impact, the power of decision-making and also the power of finance, and thus also the influential quality of life, will need to be distributed a little across this country. Well, dear colleagues, for what it's worth, let's not be against the capital. Our capital, let's support him. At the same time, let us also do our best to once overcome these differences in the partial division of Slovenia into 20, 14 or 17 regions, but let us divide Slovenia into European suitable and then make it appropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you. Franz Sušnik still gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. I am sure that we need the law on the capital, I can also say that I am proud that Ljubljana is our capital and that it will remain so. We all know the fate of experiments, deconcentration or decentralisation of individual institutions. The light case is Darsa's office in Cel. But that's how it's gonna stay. However, I think it is wrong for the world today, when we consider the capital law, to deal with everything else, to talk about coherent regional development and all the deviations that accompany this development. On the other hand, it is no wonder that this is the case. I think that this debate was encouraged by the proponents and supporters of this law, because you were building the law at the very wrong starting point. You've been building the law on the ground that the status of the capital is a burden. Look, Mr. Mayor of the Municipality of Celje has made it clear to us that this is not a burden, that it is a good thing. If these laws were to be written on the basis that the status of the capital is good, this law would be good and would be more readily supported. That the status of the capital, which Ljubljana has is good, is perfectly clear. This is where all the capital is centralized, everything, all the well-paid people. Finally, the Mayor will know best what it means to compensate for the use of the building land of all urban areas, of all these institutions centralised in Ljubljana. However, the basic error as I said and the basic dilemma is that you went to this project with the wrong starting point, I reiterate. In your heads, it is rooted in the fact that the status of Ljubljana’s capital is a burden for Ljubljana. This is completely wrong, completely wrong, and this has finally encouraged all this debate on coherent regional development. See, if we were to go into this project by saying that it is a good thing and that based on this starting point we would arrange relations between the city of Ljubljana and between the state institutions, I believe it would be quite different for all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia to look at this law differently. I believe that the development of Ljubljana would also be different if my fellow Members, who, at the same time as the city councilors and the city leadership of Ljubljana, understood the status of Ljubljana's capital status as a burden rather than a burden. And that is what I think is a key problem that we have not resolved by this law, although the experiment and this attempt I also understand as a risk of the legalisation of special levers, the possibility of draining state capital from state institutions to the city level, the outflow of funds for which it might be reasonable to doubt that they are not always necessary and justified. The development of the city could also be different, expected to be different. Ljubljana would deserve this as the capital if the people of the city of Ljubljana's development policy understood the status of the capital as a burden rather than a burden. It's the wrong starting point. Every village, every city would like to be the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is only given to Ljubljana. If you misunderstand this, it is not a problem in the status of the capital, but it is a problem in understanding or in those who do not understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. And Anton Anderlich. Jaša Lukič gave up the debate. Did I get you guys right?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u166	Yeah, you just let me out of the fog.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u167	No, I understand he won't discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u168	I think saying that someone is proud because he is a Ljubljanaer is a shit. You can be proud of Ljubljana because of its baroque, you can be proud of Ljubljana because of Plečnik, you can be proud of a lot of things, but not because you were born in Ljubljana, because you haven't done anything about it yet. Already in the first reference we had, there was a foolish idea to disperse the embassies from Kopra to Maribor, New City and, of course, the thing quickly collapsed. But there was a minister for a small economy, I must say regrettably from Maribor, who transferred his ministry to Maribor and, of course, the thing was completely confused and ineffective that it was not going anywhere. Besides, there's something else you need to know. Ljubljana has only 270,000 inhabitants. That's really very little. Now we come to one thing that no one has noticed. In the previous regime, Slovenia was the only one to establish polycentrism in practice, the only republic of the former Yugoslavia. If you look at all the capitals of the former republics and the current countries of the former Yugoslavia, you will see that in Macedonia, which has 2 million inhabitants, 1 million lives and works or does not work in Skopje, the same with Zagreb, the same with Belgrade, the same with Sarajevo. Slovenia was the only one who actually dispersed the settlement from coast to Maribor. That Maribor had failed because of the collapse of the Yugoslav people's army was not really the fault of Maribor or Ljubljana. We could say that Slovenia, with one smart policy of the previous regime, avoided having megalopolis in the middle of its territory. I think we took it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u169	My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u170	Of course, a person could ask himself in this law whether it is really necessary to talk in every law about all the issues that burden citizens and citizens of this country. It might be right, but it's irrational and useless for the thing we're dealing with. It is right to admit that until things are clearly separated from each other and placed in a place where no one will experience the true content and true meaning. It is so impossible to say that all the functions that the capital has could be transferred in one way or another anywhere in Slovenia and then all the problems could be solved. Of course, it's not about any decentralisation in this way, but it's about redistribution, about some reallocation of some assets, but eventually things get more expensive because they need to be organised in a completely different way and not in a uniform way. Ljubljana, as a local government and Ljubljana, as the capital has no connection with Ljubljana, in which the country performs most of its functions. And that's actually the whole point of being apart from each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This concludes the discussion of the draft law in its entirety and brings us to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.2.2004. You have an overview of the amendments tabled in Article 1, the amendment of the Youth Slovenia Party, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. They are both essentially identical by the fact that the others contain the Republic of Slovenia and the first only city of Slovenia. Comrade Sasha Pece, debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u172	The second amendment, i.e. the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, proposed that the text in the dictatorship - "Ljubljana is as the capital of the administrative centre of Slovenia. The capital is the seat", and then lists the state authorities, the organisation of national importance, foreign diplomatic representations and consular representations, etc., all the way to the branch, "if so specified by law or other act". I am personally convinced that the existing proposal or text in Article 1 is much better than the proposal in Article 1 for the first reading, which showed the aspirations of the applicants. Nevertheless, it is precisely because of all the concerns we have in the national party to that law that we propose in Article 1, namely, the general provision of this law, the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, to give or define a constitutional dictatorship, and to write briefly a little, very simply, "the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is Ljubljana", without listing the institutions and without allowing the transfer of these institutions to be legal or illegal. I believe that, insofar as the applicant's intentions were as they were mentioned at least in the introduction, they will not be eliminated. However, if the purposes of this Act were different and the text of Article 3 of this Act is considered to be the exclusive right of Ljubljana, in which case, of course, you will not want to accept the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. I suggest you accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? Ivan Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, DesUS was discussed and studied Article 1. We've come to the next conclusion. The only right thing to do is to define ourselves to an amendment that clears everything up. We therefore disagree with the first amendment, which says, "The capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana". What is Slovenia? I think we are aware that Slovenia is now an independent country. And if we are talking about the country's capital, then this must be said and this is resolved by the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. And that's why we support this amendment. If I reach out to the speakers, what is Slovenia? It can only happen that Slovenia will be a province as such. In Slovenia, however, the country will either be Slovenia as a whole or we will have two or three. This is all directly related to this Article 1 and we therefore call on you to support our opinion, also others, to support this amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party, which is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia Ljubljana. That's the only thing right. Because I have a word, and for a short time, I was misunderstood as to Article 1. As a Slovenian, I want to be treated as much as any foreigner in Ljubljana, the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. I want my car damaged as professionally as a foreigner's car. We can't be Slovenes second-rate, they can't be foreigners first-class. I want to go to the hotel, if I live in it, whether I come from Maribor or New Gorica or from elsewhere, it must be in the same comfortable room as a foreigner, it must be served as well, as hospitablely accepted and well served as any other. Let's stop being strangers! We are Slovenians, equal, and in the European Union we will prove this and the European Union will not divide into first-class and second-class. So please don't listen and don't talk anymore, because of the foreigners we have to do something - because of us, and the foreigners will admire how nice it is and how they are accepted, just like us, citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you. I no longer see a desire to discuss the article and the two amendments, so I am concluding the debate on Article 1 and the amendments of the two groups of Members. Does the proposer want another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u176	The proposer wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u177	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you. I would like to say that I am pleased that such an in-depth and comprehensive debate on the law has been held. I must say that in many ways, even more extensive than I could have been in the third reading itself, especially since only one amendment was put into law in the end. In particular, I am pleased that we have rarely heard from the applicants that from the beginning to the end a lot of consideration has been given to the debate in the first and second readings. That's right, it was. The desire was to follow the content only as the content was intended, rather than any possibility of a different interpretation of the law itself. So let me say again, I am firmly convinced on behalf of all three applicants, the law has only and exclusively the objective as stated in it. Everything else that any of the Members and Members of Parliament have said in addition to or minus the law has spoken in his own name. I would like to say once again that I respect the problems that the National Assembly has been talking about in this law on regionalism - they are real, big and critical for Slovenia. But I firmly believe that this marriage cannot save them, and that you, too, who spoke of them, know that this marriage cannot save them. With regard to Article 1, I am sorry, but no one, including those who have doubts, has given one argument that it says something other than what you want. You want this first article not to favour Ljubljana in terms of defining the seats of anyone and anything that is supposed to be in Ljubljana; this article does not. Who knows Slovenian, who wants to read it, who wants to be objective, knows it's true. But needless fears can also be created. I believe, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, that, as you have announced, this law will receive support. I do not think that this has reached a final stage or a great deal, but I will be happy if this law contributes not only to the regulation of relations between Ljubljana as the capital and the state of Slovenia, but also to the fact that it will now make it easier to approach the specific law on the municipalities, so that it can be more easily approached by the provinces, so that it can also be easier to deal with other issues of local self-government, and above all that the law that is being prepared again on regional development will be less institutional than its content today, but that it will talk about the development issues of Slovenia. And I have the right to say this, because I was one of the few people I spoke for this speaker, it was still a little different when the current law on regional development was passed, saying that there was no content in it, but only institutions that were supposed to regulate the content and that would provide a lot of red tape and little benefit for the underdeveloped. And now that I have the President-in-Office for a minute, not as a representative of the proposer, allow me, because there was no way that I could speak a few words on how to deal with some of the issues that have been raised in relation to my colleague, Mrs Majda Potrato. Look, the debate, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues you had as controversial about Mrs Mag. Majdo Potrata, in my opinion, is talking about those and you who spoke about this, not about Mrs. Potrat. It talks about your culture of communication, about your culture of attitude towards people, even though they are Members, and especially about your culture towards women. Think about it, for I am proud that the culture of the level of communication and professionalism of Mrs Majde Potter is so high that, of course, it shows yours even in a more miserable light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you very much, colleague Potsch. So I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments to Article 1 will take place in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote at 21.25 a.m. I'm breaking this agenda. At 5 p.m., we'll move on to the 16th item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation, Secretary of State and for your attention from the tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u180	We will continue with the 16th item of the agenda - by addressing the motion for a resolution on the national programme on the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to inform you that in the light of the tragic accident that struck the Republic of Macedonia with the loss of President Trajkovski, my colleague and the Macedonian Parliament, when we meet tonight at 9:25 a.m., we will also bow to President Trajkovski with a minute of silence. I'm moving on to 16. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - TO THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RESOLUTION ON THE NATIONAL PROGRAMME OF THE BUILDING OF A CAR TOWARD IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the Minister the floor to further explain the proposal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u181	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Respectable others present! The proposal for a new national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia covers the construction of a total of over 570 km of roads. The current national programme is 553. Of these, 538.6 km of highways and fast roads and 34 km of other state roads. The estimated investment value of the new national programme is around €5.4 billion at the December 2002 price level, of which €3.48 billion will need to be realized in the period 2003-2013 without funding costs. The priorities for the implementation of the national programme shall be based on the professional criteria for prioritisation or order of construction of those sections which have not yet been built or under construction. The criteria defined in the study, the establishment of a priority order for the construction of motorway sections, are economic eligibility and transport, development and environment protection policy. According to the criteria given, the main priority of the Republic of Slovenia in the construction of individual motorway sections is determined by the course of the fifth and tenth European transport and transport corridor, which covers the highway south-west from Kopra to Šentilja on the Slovenian-Austrian border with the gradual upgrading of motorway sections to the Slovenian-Italian-Slovenian-Hungarian border and the highway north-west-south from the Karavanka tunnel to the Slovenian-Austrian Obreža on the Slovenian-Croatian border. Thus, according to the proposal of the national programme, the backbone of the Slovenian motorway network from Maribor to Kopra and from Karavank to Obrežje will be completed by the end of 2008. The overall basic programme will be completed by the end of 2013. In this context, the motorway connection from Maribor to Kopra will be completed until the end of the 2005 tourist season, by the end of 2007 the connection of the fast road through the Vipavska Valley will be completed, until the end of 2008 the motorway connection from Karavank to Obrežje will be completed. By the end of 2008, a major part of the Pomeranian motorway will be built, mainly from Lenart to Beltinci and an appropriate link to the Hungarian network by the end of 2010 and the entire ferry road will be transported, although some of it will be from Beltinc to Pinc first as a bi-passenger. By the end of 2009, the link between Slovenska Bistrica and Ormož will be completed. In 2011 to 2013, the last section of the coastal road to Lucija will be completed and the second half of the motorways from Beltinc to Pinc and the motorway along the Pesnica to the Ptujska road will be upgraded. The new dynamics in the implementation of the national programme prepared by the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with Dars, the Technical and Transport Institute of the Faculty of Construction and the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, will depend mainly on the macroeconomic capabilities and national economic interests of the State, this is the possibility of providing sufficient financial resources or funds to finance the construction of individual sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads by a certain priority and other factors that may have a decisive impact on the progress of the implementation of the national programme itself, irrespective of the provision of sufficient financial resources or funding. This is the possibility of long-term procedures for putting routes into space and long-term procedures for land and real estate acquisition, the possibility of technical complications in construction and the like. In order to realise these investments in road construction in the period 2003/2013, €3.5 billion will be provided with funding from the following sources: earmarked funds, namely the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, securities, bonds, domestic and foreign loans and other resources. Tolls, rents and other resources will be allocated to the management and maintenance of motorways during the period 2003/2013 and to the repayment of liabilities from the leased loans issued. At the same time, it is essential for the national programme to recognise the nature of a multi-generational project with a high-positive national economic value and to recognise the nature of the long-term variable nature of the national programme, which enables it to be implemented on the basis of short-term, three or four-year time periods, as the setting of an axiom of the unacceptableness of its basic principles and objectives would have put the implementation at the outset into question. It is clear from the dynamics of the financial and investment flows of the national programme that the annual volume of investment in new construction over the period 2003/2013 is strongly evenly distributed in the amount of up to EUR 400 million per year, that is, around 1.6% of gross domestic product, in line with the results of the analysis of the capacity and optimal investments in the construction of motorway infrastructure to achieve the greatest possible positive national and economic impacts; that the amount of the necessary annual funding from the earmarked resources moves according to the legal basis and in line with the real possibilities of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in view of the changes in the international and domestic environment of the economy; that the implementation of the national programme by the end of 2013 requires borrowing of loans and the issuance of long-term infrastructure bonds of a total of EUR 2.6 billion, with some of which will also be designed to refinance certain commitments under guaranteed funding sources. The dynamics of the implementation of the national programme are divided into time periods consistent with the budgetary periods of the European Union 2003-2006 from 2007-2013 and beyond 2013. Under the third time period of implementation of the national programme after 2013, the construction of the remaining sections of motorways, fast and connecting roads, which were not part of the national programme, but are now included as an integral part of this national programme and whose construction priority will be determined depending on those professional criteria with the planning documents. The precise spatial design and categorisation of these sections, which form part of an additional national programme, will be defined by the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and by the Law on Public Roads. The value, dynamics and the provision of financial resources for their implementation will be set out in the medium-term development plans of motorways for individual time periods. The main objectives of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia are to achieve the following objectives by building a highway network. Connect all Slovenian regions and the most important economic centres in the country and connect the Republic of Slovenia to the European motorway network and connect it to a wider European space. Secondly, bring Slovenian economic space closer and connect with European economic space, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy compared to the European economy. Third, bring the Slovenian cultural space closer together and enable it to be recognizable and linked to the wider European space. Fourthly, to promote the further economic development of the Slovenian economy through investments in the construction of economic infrastructure, which have proven positive multiplier effects on most macroeconomic aggregates and other sectors of the Slovenian economy. Fifthly, improve and increase the level of traffic safety of road users. And six times, reduce excessive negative traffic impacts on the environment, in the area of existing main and regional roads, due to their decommissioning with a built-up highway network, in particular through measures to redirect heavy freight to an already built motorway network. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, has also tabled an appropriate amendment to the amendment, which I propose that you consider and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Does the board president want a word first? The Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, Comrade Janc, will present the report of the Committee and then we will move on to a presentation of the views. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. At its 44th meeting, on 23.9.2003, at its 47th meeting, on 7.11 and 4.12.2003, and at its 52nd meeting, on 12.2.2004, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of Dars, the Council of State and the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law also participated in the meetings of the committees. The resolution was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council, the Municipality of Škofljica, Ribnica, Loški brook, the Group for the Implementation of Conclusions in Novi Grač, Ambassador Marko Diaci, Yuri Malovrov, and the Committee also had the view of the Government to the opinion of the State Council of 7.11.2003 and the amendments of the Members of the National Assembly of 3.12.2003. At its 44th meeting, the Committee of the National Infrastructure Assembly presented a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. At the 47th meeting of the Committee, the representatives of the proponents completed the introduction of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, mainly in the work relating to the supplementary programme, and also provided a more detailed analysis of the provision of financial resources for the implementation of the programme. Representatives of the State Council and a number of members of the National Assembly, Cyril Pucko, Aurelio Juri, Branko Janc, Janko Weber, Anton Butolen, Anton Anderlič, Branko Kelemina, Jožef Špindler, Jože Tanko and Geza Juban, have participated in the general debate that followed, focusing on the issue of the implementation of the motorway programme in view of the annual delays in the implementation of individual sections and the annual increase in the necessary financial resources for the implementation of this programme. They also questioned the dissemination of the content of the programme by sections which do not fall within the category of motorways and cause additional costs and additional delays in the implementation of the basic programme. In doing so, members of the Committee have mainly addressed the lack of documents laid down by the Law on Public Roads, in particular the strategy for transport policy and the strategy for the development and maintenance of other state roads, as a basis for the comprehensive planning and implementation of road links in the Republic of Slovenia and the linking of this system to other transport systems. Since 1990 the Republic of Slovenia has been building a motorway system, complementing it with new sections of other state roads, new arms and financial means for the realization of these, so that the construction of the motorway network from year to year is prolonged and more expensive. The members of the Committee drew attention to the unsustainable situation created by the lack of a national programme for the construction of other state roads, which forces Members to build motorways with another national network, as is evident from the attached supplementary programme. In this connection, the members of the Committee also drew attention to the problem of providing sufficient funding, which relates only to the basic programme, as well as to the complete time and financial uncertainty of the proposed supplementary programme. Following the 47th meeting, on 4.1.2004, the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Assembly held a debate and a vote on the individual parts of the proposed act and the amendments tabled in the first and second chapters, in accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He also accepted his amendments. The amendments were tabled by the Members of Jože Tanko to Chapter 4, Table 9, point 1.1, point 3.2, Table 10.b, Marko Diaci to Chapter 4, point 3.2, Yuri Malovrev to Chapter 4, point 3.2, Janko Weber, Franc Kangler and Geza Juban and Jože Ašič. Member Alojz Sok and Member Janez Drobnič have tabled amendments outside the time limit set for business, which are therefore considered irrelevant. In the discussion on Chapter 3, the basic principles and objectives of the national programme for the construction of motorways and the amendments tabled, the members of the Committee discussed in particular the issues of improving the national and regional road network and ensuring accessibility to those parts of the country which do not have direct motorway links. Mr President, I would like a minute or two more to report in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u184	Provide a report, but you, like everyone else, must respect time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'll cut it short. If I shorten, the issue that has been raised is, above all, the issue of placing other road sections in the national highway construction programme, which, of course, will also lead to a lot more hot blood in today's session when amendments and resolutions are adopted, of course. Finally, the Committee adopted some of its amendments and the amendments by Mr Jožet Ašić and prepared a supplementary motion for a resolution for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u186	Good. Thank you very much. We will now hear a presentation of the views of all the parliamentary groups. The first position will be presented by the New Slovenia Group. I invite my colleague Aloys Sok to present this position. It's his turn, Comrade Weber. First of all, colleague Sok, New Slovenia's Group of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u187	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members. First of all, on behalf of New Slovenia, I must express my satisfaction that the National Assembly is finally considering this resolution. As you know, we have requested this many times because the current resolution or national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia has long been no longer implemented as it was set up in 1998. The second thing I would like to say in this regard is that in New Slovenia we deliberately avoided any amendment, because the chairman of the committee earlier said that we had tabled an amendment or two outside the business deadline, and later we decided not to put our amendments in place, precisely because we did not want the National Assembly to adopt a resolution again, a programme that was already unrealisticly set up in the very design. In this country, we adopted the first national highway construction programme in 1995. I have to say that we are residents, the citizens were thrilled, because in this first programme it was written that in Slovenia a highway crossing of the north-south-east-west will be built, and a fast road from Slovenia Bistrica through Ptuj to Ormož was also recorded. This first program, which was adopted at the time, was designed at a length of 499.5 kilometres, even half a mile [half a km] accurately recorded, and was valued at about $2.2 billion without accrued interest, says without a funding account. It was already in 1998 that knowledge prevailed and it became clear that something had been adopted that could not actually be carried out and that the National Assembly had embarked on the first rebalancing of the national programme. In doing so, I must say that Members, as they wish this year, have increased the entire national programme from 499 kilometres to 553 kilometres, but that costs have increased almost once to more than 4 billion US dollars, without a funding account. This programme in 1998 provided for the completion of the Slovenian Road Cross in 2004, according to this year, with the final parts in 2005. At this point in time, however, the reality is that in the ten years almost ten years since the national highway construction programme was adopted, according to the data now published now that the programme is being adopted for the second time, we have implemented less than half of the programme under way. Less than half. And, of course, it is difficult to expect and be absolutely confident that in the coming years this programme, which is more than half to do, and which is increasing again in price enormously, will also actually come true. One of the reasons why the programme was not implemented and the price of this programme so increased is that the rapporteur stated in the explanatory memorandum that it was mainly a problem in putting routes into space, then a lack of coordination between local communities, that there were problems in the implementation of public calls, that there were problems in the design of projects and technical documentation, that financial resources were not provided in a timely and sufficiently timely manner. Of course, we could add a number of other things to the fine in explanation. For example, it could also be said that during all this time, it was not an optimal choice of routes, that there were various issues such as diskette complications, yellow diskettes, that there were many times in planning for political lobbying, that there was an unoptimal setting of routes in the space itself, and there were many other things that could be listed. The cost of a kilometer of highways has increased greatly since the beginning. I know, the representatives of the ministry, who are currently in this position, will say that they built mainly easier sections at the time, and that's true. But the price of the initial or already built sections was on average 1.5 to 1.6 billion, while the price of the sections that are now being built has risen by almost once to about 3 billion tolars. Now we have another national programme rebalancing ahead of us. This is designed to build 572 kilometres of highways and fast roads by 2013, while the value of this programme is supposed to be - I don't know, I understood the minister that he said 5.4, but it seems to me that 6.4 billion, not more dollars, but euros, is written in the rapporteur. This programme is supposed to be implemented in some way in three parts, the first part from now to 2006 when all those sections currently in construction are expected to be completed in the fifth and tenth corridors, then in the years 2007 to 2013, they are expected to complete everything necessary in the fifth and tenth corridors, and after 2013 they are expected to build an additional programme, which is expected to be approximately 140 kilometres long in this resolution. The price is expected to be paid in the future - everything we will spend or what is already used to build the Slovenian road cross and other fast roads - by 2033 - is said to cost us all a little less than €14 billion in funding bill. So it's a lot of money. The main source should be toll for all of this, but it is a question and is now a dilemma as to whether it will be possible to collect tolls in the way the Republic of Slovenia had imagined, even by then, by 2033. We know that there are many proposals in this room and that something will have to be done in the field of tolling at this time. And if the tolling system changes, it is expected that the flow of money will not be the same as the resolution currently foresees. Here I would like to remind you of the transport policy, which is not in the Republic of Slovenia at this time, yet something else. Slovenia is a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol and will have to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2013, given 1986, when greenhouse gas production was around 14 million tonnes. Transport contributes to the amount of greenhouse gases around 25% and increases every year. This means, of course, that if we want to do what we signed in the Kyoto Protocol in the Republic of Slovenia, we will also need to approach such a transport policy that will not further burden our environment. To the extent that we approach this, of course, this also means a smaller influx of tolls, because a good part of transit transport will probably have to be diverted to the railways. What we have repeatedly stressed in New Slovenia and what is somehow lacking in this programme is mentioned in some way, but not enough and not in our opinion seriously enough, is that it would be good if Slovenia tried to build a motorway in a concessional way. We opened the debate and proposed to try the section of Slivnica-Gruškovje, unfortunately in this resolution this possibility is indicated, but only the solution to this problem between Slivnica and Hajdina is indicated. This means that there is no full road route covered and if you do not cover the whole road route, then of course it is also difficult to expect that for this section the motorway could find a way of concessional construction. This was our proposal, and this was also our amendment, which, as the President said, we tabled within the time limit we missed. This amendment could be repeated by today's debate as a parliamentary group, but as I said in the introduction from this resolution we did not want to make some unrealities, because Slovenians expect much from the Slovenian road programme and all those who have problems and live along roads that are very burdensome want to build the Slovenian highway cross as soon as possible. The fact is that what we are doing today should have been done in this country 20 years ago, and so it will be necessary to wait another ten years if this programme is to be implemented as proposed. For sections such as Dravograd-Velenje-Arja Vas, Koper-Dragonja, Šentvid-Koseze, Slivnica connection to the highway near Slivnica in Maribor, Double-Jeprca and Jeprca-Stanežice will, of course, have to wait much longer than ten years. In New Slovenia, we will also support this resolution because some of the amendments proposed by individual Members have been withdrawn in some way from the debate on the Committee and will become - if the Government adopts a decision adopted by the Infrastructure Committee - part of the national programme for the construction of other state roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I now give the floor to the presentation of the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to my colleague Janko Webr. Then he'll get the word of his colleague, Lenko, first of all, colleague Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, President, and a very nice greeting to everyone. In the introduction, I would like to point out that, in the United List of Social Democrats, we have been working to build a highway network throughout the implementation of the national highway construction programme, using, in particular, the best-quality resources, i.e. dedicated resources and tolls.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u190	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u191	Unfortunately, many things have been happening in these two areas, especially in the field of tolls, we have met in the course of building a highway network with a wide variety of ideas. And these, of course, have led us to have a very undefined toll system on the highway network today. Of course, it would be the most appropriate one to pay by a mile, and this is still one of the goals that we pursue in our customer. That is why we believe that all the measures to be taken in this direction will bring the highway system closer to being truly built with the most realistic and quality resources. Today we find that, according to these data, which we have by 2002 from the material for the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, the information that the toll is actually being realised somewhere at a total of 77%. Of course, the gas toll itself as a dedicated resource did not fully follow expectations or planned amounts. This was achieved at 75%. And if we include the fact that the length of the motorway network has been prolonged during construction and that the procedures for placing the motorway network in a space from year to year have been more difficult, we see that this has led to the lack of quality resources to track the appropriate dynamics of the highway network. Therefore, it seems to us that the most important fact is that, in drawing up a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, we have been trying to find a new quality source that will enable faster dynamics in the construction of the highway network, rather than limiting ourselves to petrol tolls, tolls and debt both at home and abroad. Therefore, we believe that as the main source of securities issue is one of those solutions in this resolution, which should also allow for the real construction of the motorway network within deadlines, which are somehow written down, which are crucial if we call them in 2007 and 2013 and, of course, an additional programme to be implemented after 2013. At the same time, it will also be necessary to settle the obligations already made in the construction of the motorway network. And, of course, here too, this resolution provides for a source, securities like those that are supposed to solve this problem. It is therefore probably important to follow the fact that the interest in investing in banks is declining and that the supply of infrastructure securities on the market will also arise through the adoption of a resolution, and this also means a shift in the way in which savings are made in our country, and of course we want this way and this saving to take place as far as possible in the direction of the funds envisaged in this resolution. A lot of controversy in the resolution has also opened up additional routes. Some additional programme has already been proposed by the government or the proposer from the very beginning. However, the creation of an additional programme was, of course, sought to be achieved either by amendments or by discussions on the Infrastructure Committee. We believe that, at times, even too much attention has been given to the additional programme and too little to the basic programme; however, a compromise solution, which is also proposed as an amendment to the Government's amendment, namely to the material or motion for a resolution, as formulated by the Infrastructure Committee, can be the acceptable compromise that solves the kind of aim in this additional programme, so directed primarily in the sense that areas and regions that do not have a basic highway cross, can be linked to this network as soon as possible and, of course, we will also allow the rapid development of these areas. Indeed, the fact is that the interest of capital is to invest in areas or try to invest in areas where, of course, it is expected that these funds will be translated as quickly as possible, and it is certain that this additional programme will become much more realisticly planned below, as it is currently stated in the resolution, when we do not even have the exact routes placed in space or finally provided with completely concrete financial resources. We therefore do not believe that we should in any way allow a halt to the development of these areas, of these regions, beyond the motorway cross, and therefore, of course, we will support the amendment to the government's amendment, which somehow implies a faster resolution of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much, colleague Webber. Mr Lenko will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome Minister and Director Dars, colleague and fellow Members! In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we positively evaluate the proposed resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. The resolution is systematic and transparent enough to eliminate confusion, which, due to many of the acts adopted in this area, is the government. Nevertheless, we have some comments on the resolution. Since every citizen draws a few tolars for the construction of motorways, they cannot be built only for a minority of citizens. It is necessary to note that in Slovenia we also need a national programme for the construction of state roads, which will connect citizens of geographically more remote areas to the highway cross. The data that there will be 250 000 citizens living at the highway crossing in the coming years is sufficiently talkative and speaks for the proposed purpose. In doing so, we are not just looking at the economic dimension of equitable economic development, which, at least according to the word, we are all looking forward to. It is also mainly a matter of greater safety in transport. That is why we have welcomed the news that the government adopted a resolution last night to supplement the updated motion for a resolution that returned to the proposal sections of Dravograd-Velanje-Arja Vas, Koper-Dragonja and the Šentvid-Kasaze connecting roads, the southern suburb of Ljubljana and the Slivnica-Peznica motorway. Furthermore, we believe that the country should also draw up a transport policy strategy, in order to specify more precisely the construction deadlines for individual sections, as they are already exceeded to the extent that the question of the meaning of their decision is raised. For example, we have been waiting for ten years for the Troyan tunnel, the Trojan Blagovica section and so on. Furthermore, the section of Vipava-Rebrunka, which should have been enjoyed a few years ago, works are under way, the slopes of the hills are naked, but we know that the area is exposed to the wind, which makes the road fatal when it rains or snows. And given that most trucks, despite the highway to southern Primorska, still serve these routes, you can imagine how much danger we are exposed to every day by all users of this road. Furthermore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it would be necessary in parallel to build the highway cross, as mentioned earlier, including the so-called power roads that will lead from the interior to the highway. Given that the credit is largely remunerated with tolls, this increased cash flow to build supply roads would lead to a more consistent implementation of the financial plan. Speaking of tolls, we call on the government to unify their collection as soon as possible and to respect the principle of justice. Again we will draw attention to the number of toll stations which do not allow sufficient flow along Slovenian highways. It would also be necessary to think carefully about the most appropriate way of tolling for Slovenia. Despite these comments, we support the decision of the resolution committee in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members and, in line with further comments, we expect the resolution to be implemented in a consistent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Comrade Lenko. Now I'm going to give my word to my colleague, Janez Sponik. He will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the adoption of a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways. We believe that today is an important day for the National Assembly and that in the end, when we accept this document in the late evenings, we will do so with confidence and a peaceful conscience. Today we live in a complex world and in a few months, when we become a large part of the European network, our moves will have to be even more deliberate. The motorways connect us to a large trans-European transport network, and it is up to us to know this great developmental fissure, this great European challenge to accept and turn to ourselves, for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Therefore, according to the Slovenian People's Party, the construction of motorways should continue, continue to be linked to Italy, Austria and Hungary, and special attention should also be paid to connections with Croatia. We have before us the proposal for a new national programme for the construction of motorways, the third, the last, and this time the most imaginary and realistic. This document has recruited the government, coalition, professional services and local communities in recent months. Several shorter sections of the road have been installed in this programme during the last period. The essence of this programme is certainly to align construction deadlines with real opportunities and with a renewed, different way of financing construction. The proposal for a new national highway construction programme also contains an adapted approach to financing the implementation of the programme. Basically, it follows from the European Union's transport policy that the construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure must be paid to the maximum extent possible by users. Dozens of top European economists, builders and other experts have shown empirically that only paying the costs incurred leads to efficient use of transport infrastructure. And this must also be our goal, because it is simply not free of roads, but only roads paid by all taxpayers, and are roads paid only by those who use them. According to the Slovenian People's Party, this second approach is more fair and fair. This should also be adapted to the toll system on our motorways, which should be based on modern toll collection technology in free traffic.The design of the project's financing is known in the way the project is financed, where the share of credits that will be repaid by users through toll payments will increase. Better risk assessments received in recent years by Slovenia reduce the required interest rates, but can also obtain long-term capital at the age of 30, which was only a utopia ten years ago. However, due to lower interest and longer-term utility, it is economically justified to increase the share of debt capital in construction. In addition, this programme also foresees the refinancing of less favourable loans and this will reduce the total costs of the programme, which also take account of the amount of the interest. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Slovenian motorways are a project of many generations, as this network will serve its purpose in more than 30, 40 or 50 years. Therefore, according to the Slovenian People's Party, it is right that the users of that period also contribute their share to the construction. I would also like to say a few words about the additions to the proposal for a national highway construction programme. We named it an extra program. Koroška - after the completion of the basic programme will be one of the transportiest regions in Slovenia. The fast road Dravograd-Arja will mean you and will mean, if it is accepted, an urgent link between this region and the highway system, while also connecting with neighbouring Austria's Koroška, which will be very important after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. This road is also very important for Velenje, which is the fifth largest in Slovenia with a highly developed industry. The development will be significantly compromised if we do not build the proper transport link between Velenje and Arja village. Fast road Koper-Dragonja is mainly important due to the redirection of transit traffic towards Istria from the coastal road to this parallel fast road. In this way, we will unload the Slovenian coast with transit and traffic flows, allowing it to move faster and, above all, tourism development. This is followed by an update of the transport link towards the Ribnik Valley and Kočevska. Something's been said about it. On the road between Pijavo Gorica and Lavrica, there are on average more than 8 000 vehicles every day, and from Lavrica to Ljubljana, these traffic flows become so unsustainable. We therefore insist that an appropriate connecting road should be built in this area between Pijavo Gorica and the Ljubljana Highway Ring. This connecting road would allow the inhabitants of the Ribnik Valley and Kočevskoh to enter Ljubljana, Lavrica and other places to expand along the current road. The last of the connecting roads, which is also in government complements and will receive our support, is the Voivode-Stanežiče road. The Ljubljana-Kranj Motorway, which was built in the early 80s and unfortunately then bypassed the bishop's area, is therefore a key road for unloading the existing road network due to the growing daily transit from Škofja Loka and the surrounding area towards Ljubljana. At the same time, the link between the Polish and Selska valleys to the motorway system is also Primorska. At the same time, I would like to remind you that roads in this so-called additional programme are not the roads that we would start building tomorrow, which we need to know today when we support them in the amendment form or not. These are strategic guidelines on the basis of which the competent authorities may initiate procedures to place routes in the space. We have experience in the '90s when we had to start speeding up the way we put highways into space and it took several years, more than five years. Good solutions, which bring technical quality roads, at optimal construction costs and taking into account all the requirements set by the space in which the road runs, are dawning and this type of years. It is therefore right that we begin with the adoption of the proposed government additions to these procedures. The financial deadline for these projects will be a matter of future decisions, including those of our colleagues in the coming mandates. I'm still warning you on the next one. If we have these roads when we decide to start construction already placed in space, we will be able to know very precisely how much construction costs will be and when they can be completed, and this will make the decision easier and, above all, more difficult to weigh. I conclude by saying once again that we support the adoption of a new national programme in the Slovenian People's Party, together with the proposed additions, because we believe that internal transport security and the country's connection and the involvement in European transport networks is crucial for the country's strategic economic development - without modern roads, no development. We are pushing for development, for new jobs, for new opportunities, and that is why our support is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will now be presented by counterpart Jože Tanko and will be followed by a colleague of Diaca first, colleague Jože Tanko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I wish everyone a good evening! The adoption of the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways is in the final stage and this resolution, both in terms of systemativity and transparency, we have nothing to report and is significantly better than all the motorway programmes so far. This is a fairly real document, which is very visual, both financially and time-consuming, and defines the construction of the highway programme and gives real hope that this programme will also be implemented in the planned timeframes. Technically, this is the best, most transparent and systematic national programme we have received on the parliamentary bench in this mandate. If I compare it with a national energy programme, then, say, there are missing all the most important tables, annexes relating to the required scale, type of resources, dynamics of financial resources, investment locations, investment content and so on. In the case of a national highway construction programme, it is the country's largest investment project, which will be in the long term, says at least another ten years, representing around 6-8% of the state budget. And since this is a major programme, we would rightly expect the Prime Minister to be here today, as in a number of other countries, this custom, because today we are adopting a major reform, I think it is one of the key reforms. Despite all these good characteristics, however, I think this programme also has some shortcomings that I would like to point out, which I think are important and not sufficiently processed or perhaps even omitted in this programme. However, not only do these comments relate to this mandate, but part of these comments also concern the concept itself, the approach to the construction of motorways over a wider period or throughout the construction period. First, what is somehow lacking in this programme is the assessment of the impact of Dars' ownership on the cost of the highway program. As you know, two months ago, we adopted a law on the transformation of Dars from a public undertaking to an economic society in which up to 49% of private capital is to be adopted in the wake of a heated debate in the National Assembly, with opposition from our party and also from the opposition. This means that, sooner or later, profits will be allocated to owners from the motorway programme. For the amount in the form of the profit of the decommissioned assets from the motorway programme, the motorway programme will be enhanced. An additional problem with this transformation is also the uncertainty, inadequacy of both contracts, both the implementation of financial engineering and the concession contract on the management of motorways and fast roads. The contracts are concluded by the government and Dars, but there are no special deadlines in the law, no commissions are set, no normal income of capital is fixed, and there is no parliamentary control over Dars. Everything closes and moves away from the public. But, as I said in the introduction, it's about the country's far-reaching project. And it will be necessary to provide at least another €10 billion. However, there is financial engineering for commissions both at the entrance and at the exit. And these are commissions between two and four percent, probably, and the normal capital return that Dars is going to receive is normal, there's about ten percent. In short, it's a huge asset that's not defined. Another thing that we cannot avoid in some way is that solutions in the motorway programme have also been largely influenced by construction operations, and in some cases technical solutions are chosen, including elegant and impressive solutions, which are also expensive. And we know or we can assume that on these expensive sections, this Slovenian construction works have also been trained and may have been preparing for future projects at other locations, or in other countries. The next thing is also an uneven standard for those who received motorways, since there has been a parallel road, or highway construction, in addition to the highway. In the new concept there are some sections, at least one is one that does not have this choice or parallel road, and this causes major problems and I think also justified protests by those who want to charge this toll. This is, in some ways, unfair and unacceptable to all previous measures. And all of a sudden, for no reason at all, I don't think it makes sense to change the concept and put one road user in an unequal position. The next thing that is also problematic is politics, or tolling regimes. This comes partly from the way or approach to the construction of these motorway corridors, the fifth and the tenth, because these sections that we were building have been fragmented - I don't know, five sections, but separately - and in the end each such section had to be closed down by a toll station. And that's why we also have these frontal toll stations much more than the impressions of the countries where the roads were built by concessionaires. In addition, we have all the possible combinations of toll systems, so open, closed, electronic, and I don't know which. This is said to be too much and too expensive for such a small country and for such a short network of highways as Slovenia has. The next problem is the disappearance of a gas toll from the highway program. This has resulted in the replacement of the free funds collected by the citizens when the fuel was paid, and these funds, which have disappeared and were earmarked for other projects, for other reforms, have been replaced by more expensive domestic and foreign credits, and this has also contributed to the promotion of the motorway programme. One of the important things, or of the highlighted advantages, highlighted by all the transport policy and motorways, both government and sector, has always been the interpretation that motorways have an impact on coherent regional development and that they will allow for more coherent regional development. However, we are slowly aware that the opposite process is happening, that the motorway cross has caused the largest reallocation of development possibilities, which has resulted in the entire area being cancelled, even more than 1,000 square kilometres. Travel times did not shorten, roads remained bad and with all the bottlenecks so far. There have been job escapes in areas along highways and in larger urban centres. Daily migration was great, and despite the marked decline in the rural population, there was a significant increase in traffic in all these key hubs, including 10-15.20% per year. It is said that this construction of the motorway network has in fact produced the opposite effect and inconsistent regional development. And so we have areas that are not properly connected, which are excluded, we can also tell them that they are outlawed and that they are denied equal development. Some areas need only a minor intervention to join the motorway network and this would significantly improve the situation. Travel times would be substantially reduced, even by 20, 30 percent, perhaps even more, and congestion would be eliminated, and the quality of life would also be significantly increased in those places that are close to the throats, and the safety of transport would be significantly or substantially improved. If we had built a suitable connection where the highway was cut or crossed, for example, a lower-ranked municipality road, we would also have earned it from the inhabitants of these large areas, extensive areas which connect to the highway network through state roads and these state roads are usually the only connections to the highway network. Unfortunately, all the initiatives so far to regulate or address these communication problems have not been understood, but there has been even a lot of active opposition, even though it is essentially a change compared to the price of the motorway programme. That is why I am also pleased that the government has upgraded my or our amendment with the most critical sections of the main roads, allowing for a more equitable integration of these areas into the life of Slovenia. One such area, which has so far been forgotten from all the suits, all the government suits, is also a pond-cotch area. I must say that we do not expect much from the highway program, but we expect a decent connection to avoid the most burdened settlements of Škofljica and Lavrica. This section has 17,000 to 18,000 daily GDP traffic in normal days, and this is much more than many sections of the highway or fast road. And therefore it is unacceptable to go around it in the Slovenian project of the century, as well as some other sections, if we mention only Koroška and another one in Primorska and another area - White Krajina - we would deserve such attention. Sometimes we have to ask ourselves who we can spend road money for: either for transiters, for foreign nationals or for citizens of this country. And all those who will find an appropriate answer to this question will certainly also be supported by the amendments tabled by Members and the government to the resolution of the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much, you fellow Jože Tanko. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party will now be presented by colleague Marko Diaci and followed by colleague Barovic. First of all, my friend Marko Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u199	Nice greetings to all present. In a series of past discussions and discussions on the construction of the highway network in Slovenia, an argument has so far been most frequently presented which spoke of highway connections, the argument for development and the integration of various parts of Slovenia into an integrated whole. In addition, from time to time, there is still an argument of road safety and the preservation of precious human life. Both arguments are clearly held. In the Party of Young Slovenia, however, we are pleased to see that in recent times we have also begun to talk about the broader impact of such a major project, such as the construction of a highway network. At the same time, we focus on the highly favourable effects of investment on other sectors of the national economy. These are the so-called multiplier and accelerant or accelerant effects of investment in infrastructure, the increase in investment and production in other economic sectors, the increase in the overall employment rate, the growth of GDP. The latter effects are particularly pronounced in the context of the present economy or in situations where the private sector is not able to provide sufficient demand and the demand from abroad is too weak to meet the requirements of the desired domestic economic growth. In view of developments in recent years in both domestic and global markets, it shows that countries that still have under-employed resources will be able to use them to promote weak economic growth, but they will grow faster than mature economies that no longer have access to this manoeuvre. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we are convinced that through investment projects in economic infrastructure, such as motorways, state roads, energy and rail networks, Slovenia also has the opportunity to increase growth. The latter analysis of the motorway programme has already proved between 1994 and 2003. In particular, the case in 2001, when the government started to save directly on investment projects and reduced the share of annual investments in motorway construction from 1.9% of GDP in 2000 to 1.28% of GDP in 2001 and from 71 billion to 57 billion tolars. The result of such savings was a decline in aggregate investment growth from 18.9% to 3.7% annually and 25.1% of GDP. As a result, we also recorded problems in other sectors and the decline in economic growth by 5.2% annually in 1999 and 2.9% in 2001 and 2002. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are aware that only investing in public infrastructure cannot replace the failure of private economic activity, but certainly a beneficial mechanism at the time of the recession, most government documents also point out these levers. In the motion for a resolution on the national highway construction programme, we were presented with the positive effects of past construction, and in previous discussions we were able to hear less of the past motorway investment. This is a markedly uneven annual investment rate of 0.9% of GDP in 1995 to almost 2% in 2000. Such strong fluctuations are caused by certain economic sectoral shocks, which underpin the optimum effects of such enabling instruments. At the same time, there is no overstatement that neither exaggeration nor exaggeration in savings have a good effect. The analysis shows that the current point of optimal investment in the Slovenian economy or the so-called absorption capacity of the motorway sector is around 1.6% of GDP per year, currently around EUR 400 to 450 million. At the same time, it is possible to achieve the maximum marginal increase in the impact on GDP at the time of a single unit, while maintaining a sustainable financing ratio without inflation pressure. The said equivalence and stability of annual investment was also the basis for the preparation of a new resolution on the national highway construction programme, where we can see that these investment amounts are moving evenly. As the main work on the motorway programme is expected to be carried out by 2010, the table of proposals for the NPIA resolution shows that annual quotas are beginning to fall after this year. Logical thinking tells us that such a decline in annual investment is normal but gradual enough not to cause excessive economic sector shocks. Despite these, we believe that it would be a good part of this incentive mechanism to keep alive after the completion of the main motorway veins and gradually to the main scar to join the rest of our country, which will make it easier for them to live. In doing so, the proposal for an additional programme seems to make sense because so-called other wishes are emerging as an opportunity and not as a glass of the Slovenian future. The link between the sub-regions and the motorway cross is, in our view, a logical continuation after the completion of the basic motorway cross. The difference of 1.6% of GDP of the optimal volume of annual investments could also then be directed towards the development, integration and integration of individual, now almost completely isolated and cut-off parts of Slovenia into a total, which also pays for the construction of motorways. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we want to make it very clear in the Government's statements on toll collection that we are opposed to unequal toll collection, which the government has been extremely skilled in recent years. It would be a good principle: you pay as much as you transport. Even better, people would be stimulated by using highways with different receptions, such as the current situation when the highway slalom without paying the toll on parallel roads back to the highway has already become a national sport. And of course, that's completely rational. At the same time, the decommissioning of state roads would also reduce the cost of maintaining these, which is also not an insignificant item. The shift of trucks to transit by train is exactly the expected response to higher tolls, which, in addition to environmentally acceptable transit, will have a direct positive impact on the operation of Slovenian railways, since each year, the losses from the state budget represent a direct savings, certainly greater than the inflow of tolls from this title. Let me conclude by thinking that constructive action is not a destructive demolition of the whole, but it can also mean, through marginal improvements, achieving a synergistically improved whole. The current proposal for a national programme is certainly not ideal, but it is certainly better than the current situation. However, our support depends on further discussions and the fate of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. My friend Barovic is not in the hall, so I invite my colleague Mario Pozsonec. You wanted to present your position, colleague Possonchev? Please. Then we will go to the debate of all colleagues on the motion for a resolution in its entirety. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! At the end of the country where there are no railways, there are no fast roads, there are no motorways, with great interest or with bitterness we accompany the annual rebalancies of the construction of motorways. At its meeting on 22 April 1993, the current National Assembly of Second Reference instructed the Government to prepare a programme for the accelerated construction of motorways in the priority direction from Kopra to Šentilj with a break-off to the Italian and Hungarian borders; to obtain additional long-term resources and to take into account the proposals for the introduction of a special petrol toll for the construction of motorways. In 1993, a proposal for a basic programme for the construction of a highway network towards the west-east was prepared, which served as a basis for the annual highway construction programmes until the adoption of the national highway construction programme. At that time, everyone, Members of Parliament, Government, Dars, spoke about the direction of the east-west, the fifth corridor, the connection between Barcelona and Kiev. Now it's clear that it was just a bedtime story. Members' opinions changed, MEPs changed, priorities changed, and heavy trucks were left rolling from east to west between the densely populated Premur villages. The rest are also people abandoned by the state, by the government, even by Members. They live in an endangered environment where noise is far above the limit, where the danger persists at every step. The houses show large cracks that show people that their assets are in danger. When care for their living environment gets them on the road, the guards attack them and treat them as criminals, as they did in Upper Lakos. But sinners are not people; they are found in high palaces in Ljubljana and are those who have voluntarily changed the direction of construction highways. Not only did the state let them down, nobody cared about the interstate contract signed by the two prime ministers Drnovšek and Viktor Orban. In 2004, a highway connection should meet with the Pinks. Hungary has led its part of the motorway to the Slovenian border. Where are we? Nowhere! For years and years, motorways have been built across Slovenia, only in Prekmurje. It is only now that bureaucrats will start dealing with various permits, with the fact that this landscape will be cut off from industrial centres for several years or decades. This multi-year paper production seems record-breaking not only for European criteria, but I can safely say that we are some kind of world recorders. I think the Minister of Environment and Space should also consider this. This delay has caused the province to act depressedly, economically backward, demographically endangered; in this area, young people are evicted, villages are extinct, investors are evading us. Life is harder every year and fewer jobs each year, unemployment is increasing. Who cares? Nobody! This is all related to this law. However, if you would like to ask the public for an answer to the question, when will the motorway be built to the Hungarian border? Please do not blind more people, because in the national programme the construction of motorways in Prekmurje is again moved a few years later. There are more and more programs in other directions, more and more programmes that have temporarily overtaken the east-west direction, so there is always no money for the Prekmurje highway. I believe that this composition of the National Assembly is the successor of the previous composition and is therefore responsible for the implementation of the plans and conclusions adopted at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you very much, colleague Maria Possonec. With your presentation, we have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups and are now moving on to a full debate on the motion for a resolution. First, I give my word to my colleague Sok. Comrade Sok, you have the floor to discuss. Please. Is there a problem? We shouldn't be. Did someone accidentally turn on the microphone? Yeah, there's a microphone on the back by mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. So, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have already said in the introduction that we will support this resolution and that we believe that it is based on relatively realistic assumptions. I am speaking on a relatively realistic basis, if, of course, all these assumptions, which are set out in this resolution, are met, which is not necessarily necessary. When on one occasion a few months ago I was invited as a member of the Infrastructure Committee to view the construction of the Viaduct Black Kal, the representatives of Darsa are not going to say that they boasted, but they said that 71 were made for this viaduct, if I remember correctly, studies and possible options. Last but not least, the one that was already essentially proposed as the first. Somehow that's how I understood it. If I didn't, I apologize. I would, of course, like to point out how it is possible in such a project as a road programme in various ways - not to say that Darsa's representatives are guilty of this, but also to find that they also played a major role in this area by local communities and that all actors in the area - as is actually possible with some initiatives, with some brakes to actually obstruct something that we then - this was in 1995 - called almost not a project of the century. And Slovenian highways, as today's designs - by way of payment, by way of construction - are certainly part of the design of the century, so of course we are building it 20 years too late. What we are doing today should have worked in this country 20 years or at least 15 years ago, because since then traffic has started to grow dramatically. It has been said several times that roads are in fact a driver of economic development and are a prerequisite for coherent regional development. We would not be reopening this debate here today because there will be plenty of opportunities when we adopt a law on coherent regional development. But the fact is that regional differences are also due to the fact that we have not connected Slovenia's timely road very well, today in principle between the central Slovenian region that is most developed, and between the least developed pomur region in fact almost 2:1. The roads in Slovenia are also for objective reasons - not always for subjective, but the road as such has caused many accidents, many human victims who are irreplaceable, many people die on our roads, because we do not have roads arranged as they should be, there is great economic damage. And of course, we all want these problems solved as soon as possible. And as a Member, I certainly want this resolution to be adopted here today, this programme that would actually be implemented with these deadlines and these financial resources that are written down. However, if we accept such amendments as we receive during the bench meeting alone, and if these amendments are actually accepted, then I am afraid that this will not be the case, and I would not like to participate personally in this matter. Because if we do this, then, fellow Members, we have done something that is unreal. Despite the fact that the opposition may have been able to help accept something like this in some attempt, and I would say little too, to crush the sand into the wheel of the ruling coalition, which I must say has failed in these ten years in the area of road construction because it was set up. Roads, of course, are a special problem. I think that, as they are set up, they will not hold back and that Slovenia will have to adapt its toll system to the European Union's toll system. Urgently, because if we do not do so, then, of course, with regard to the competitiveness of the economy, where tolls can also become absolutely uncompetitive in the developing world. I think that Slovenia will have to think about and introduce toll systems through so-called vineyards sooner or later, because what we know today, these leading toll stations, will not actually popularise us in Europe. I think that between Šentilje and Koper seven times stops and seven times as a foreigner, if Slovenians have to endure it, pay the toll - it will simply not work. However, if the tolls are not at that level as they are set up in this programme, then of course, it can happen that the whole concept of financing will in some way also start to collapse and that this system will not hold up. I would also like to mention that, of course, by 2033, when the planned repayment of all debts and all that Slovenian roads will require that these roads that we are building are needed at that time, and these bridge facilities are already being renovated in many ways. For this is almost half of the duration and will have to be replaced with many things that will be used, and of course this will require additional resources. However, as a parliamentary group and as individual Members, I believe that we will support this programme. I will support him for one more reason: finally, a real-time road has been set up and placed in this program, and I also need to take this into account as a localpatriot, the road Slovenska Bistrica - Ptuj - Ormož. This road was part of a transport agreement signed with the European Community in 1993 and is planned to be built there in 1999. Unfortunately, we are now in 2004, the road has not yet started to be built, but after this programme, I believe it is possible, as it is installed, to be upgraded by 2007. I'm sorry, but once again, I say that this program does not fully cover the Slivnica - Gruškovje road, that this road is somehow saved only to Hajdin, because if it were fully covered, then you could trust the government to really think about obtaining some non-profit concession, which I think could be achieved for this road and built earlier. But since you've divided it into two stages, I don't think it would be possible to build it in a concessional way. So here I think we should change this philosophy and in some way reflect that political moment in the construction of this road, because traffic between Austria and other parts of our former country, Croatia, and even lower Serbia, is increasing at a high speed on this road and we will need to act quickly and do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Bevek is not in the hall, so my colleague Kebrich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister and other guests, colleagues and colleagues. The Group has already stated that it will undermine this proposal for this resolution or this programme. The national programme - those who have some experience from the previous mandate, or even from the beginning, when the first national programme was put in place, I will say that today, in fact, crying over what was being extended is not productive. On the other hand, we assume that each analysis shows at least some actual state of affairs, shows those errors that have prolonged this national programme, which we now have on the table today, but what is essential is that orientation for our future. What does this tell us - can we be skeptics, as envisaged by hand? But if we look back, we will find two reasons for delays and, of course, for large financial overruns. We will say or find that there are some objective reasons, and on the other hand there will certainly be a finding that there have been many subjective reasons. It is also possible to discuss what is objective, whether it is objective or not, and there is much to hide. You know, excuses-- paper carries everything. But we Members are a little differently oriented - at least those who are interested in a particular area and we observe and work constructively in this area. We are Members in our home environment, where we come from or where we live, under two pressures: one pressure is the pressure of fellow citizens who want to see it so that it is as far as possible from their point of view. On the other hand, we're under pressure from local communities, if we've been elected, we've had him run for office, make sure that this environment is somehow a priority, and it's your job to represent the National Assembly. As far as it is concerned, not our excuse, but our argument that we are Members of all countries, of all citizens, and that we must work in a country-efficient and sometimes even a local tendency or demand simply do not take such a stand for it if it is not within the possibility that it will be realized. We personally and in the Group of Members, on the basis of previous experience, believe that the basic programme presented is a good one. However, some amendments have already been tabled, which I do not guarantee, although certain amendments or amendments have been added by the Government to support and support them, and I ask the Minister-designate whether they are for these supplements, which will be included - and I hope that they will also be added to this programme - whether they are provided, for the first time, with financial resources and for the second time, whether it will be possible to do so physically within this period. These are the basic problems that we are facing, and when we have these answers, we will be happy to vote not only for the basic programme, but also for those additions that we think are justified. But don't let skepticism and caution be too much for us to get a real program. For I am not the same opinion as was said for tolls, that they will fall because they would want - and we will probably manage - to divert a lot or a lot of heavy cargo to the railway. However, if I look at the trend of car acquisition, the increase in the number of cars, I am optimistic that the tolls will certainly be, if we can properly calculate them and that for all citizens the highway from Šentilj to Kopra, as well as from east or south to north, will be the same principle. And that's that it'll be paid after a mile to get paid by those who use it. That is why, Minister, I appeal to you, as you have heard many times before, you have answered in one way or another that it is necessary to resolve the issue of toll stations. And if we're going to have vignettes, if we're going to take over what's already proven to be good abroad, if we're going to do that, and if we're going to do that, then those sceptics due to, for the first time, a slow transition with regard to the number of toll stations, that you have to stop, that's also costing fuel in addition to the rest, that costs certain linings on the brakes, and so on, if we take into account all this, the use of the highway is much more profitable for the driver, not only in view of the acquisition of time - someone's time is more valuable, the other's less - on the other hand, the acquisition of fuel at a certain standard speed of driving, which is such or different, the most profitable and the most economical. Since the amendments are still awaiting us, we will save some time to discuss the amendments. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan, you have your word now. My friend Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We are certainly on a subject that is of interest to everyone, and of course everyone would like to see themselves in this program. But it's the money that makes the decision. But given what we've been getting on the table lately, I don't really know if we still have this program, given that I hear that this will also get support -- this amendment, which I don't mind, of course I support, would require more roads than those that are written. I just don't know if this is financially coordinated right now. But good! I'll discuss it, say some things that seem important to me. Before we started receiving these complementary proposals today, I thought that this proposal before us was a good one. It is likely feasible if it was prepared by the government, because the financial plan is also valid. Such a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways should be supported. Especially since the government has also tabled an additional amendment to our party's amendment, which we have tabled. In this regard, I thought it was particularly important that the section against Koroška was included. I think that this part of Slovenia has actually been somehow cut off and neglected. And it's right that this was included. Of course, what does the additional sections provided for by the new amendment mean now? I don't know, but I think the government will say that later. It seems to me that the connection to Koroška is important because after May 1st, when the border somehow fell against Austria, this part will probably be more infrastructure-related to Austria than to Slovenia. That's why this section seems particularly important to me. At the time of that amendment, I thought it was a shame that it was not included in the section from Dramalj to Šentjur or against Rogatec. But I hope this will be resolved somehow. But the point, which is why I signed up, is a matter that I have been asking for seven years - government representatives, how the matter will be resolved. It's tolling on our highways, because of course it belongs with us. Taking into account the directives of the European Union to pay for the use of motorways in general, our system is not adapted to this. At least not at the moment. And if we solve this with a non-contact system or smart cards, then it will probably be necessary to make that investment. This means that by now we may have been unnecessarily building an open toll system and an expensive toll station, and now this is going to be too much, but we're going to be missing some things. If this system is to unite, what has also helped the association of Slovenian municipalities, which has set up a council of representatives of these municipalities, who are on the highways, to start talking more seriously about this system that we now have, where only in some areas we are damaged and pay there. Because I also come from one such congregation where we have such a station, where we have to pay for every mile of the highway, and five miles away from us we can drive about 40 to 50 kilometers without paying for the use of the highway. I don't mind if they're driving for free, I'd say, "so give us a ride on the highway for free," so I know it's not real, it was more to encourage this problem. Perhaps eventually, if the word of the government's representatives, if any of the words were also relevant to this problem, it would be tolling, toll stations, toll clearing systems, to know where the matter would go and what toll payments could be waiting for us. Will all citizens be in an equal position in this regard, or will we still have a system like this for a while? And what, this seems particularly important to me, what does the European Directive mean, or do we have to take it into account when it is to be paid after the use of roads? That might also be a question on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan. Now he has the floor, Comrade Jože Ašič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. I expected in some way such a event in the plenary part of the debate on the national programme, the additions to the construction of the highway network in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, because we do not have much to have in this national programme. In particular, this applies to the national programme for state roads. This is one of the basic documents to be held in accordance with the Law on Public Roads, Article 14, or Article 20 of the Law on Public Roads, which states that in accordance with this Act [[...]] [[A group, incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u210	Little microphone, be careful, buddy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u211	where the direction of development on national roads is precisely determined. [[...]] If we had this national programme, and if we also had a transport policy strategy, we would probably not be discussing a document in which we justifiably enforce all those roads, which mean such further development of fast roads, main roads and other connecting roads on the motorway cross of the Republic of Slovenia. The 1994 national programme, which was completed in 1998, which we are re-completing this year, is, of course, far from what was originally designed. The construction of the back of the highway network, which represents two legs, north-south and east-west, was designed. And of course, we are still far from realising that this entire programme will be realized. Unfortunately, at the same time, we do not pursue a transparent policy of further development of state roads, which has already been discussed. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which annually covers approximately 28 billion tolars on this national work, both for maintenance, modernisation and construction of new roads, is actually being prepared without a national document. Of course, in this national programme, we want and want to introduce from different backgrounds also those sections of the road that we do not see anywhere. For this reason, I believe that this national programme, which we will adopt today, and I think that we will also accept all amendments, in a financial way in fact, will be inconsistent, but of course it will be an obligation to, at least in a documentary sense, speed up the national programme of state roads and then to do the coordination between the two programmes, which would also be most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. Comrade Mamić, you now have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present, and especially our guests from Darsa and the Ministry of Transport. So far, more or less everything has been said. I've had one thing strained since I've been in this national council, and actually since before, I'm only now closer to all the data than I've ever been, so I can say more. For example, this national programme for the construction of motorways from the very beginning I remember from 1972 or even earlier was the priority line or connection Šentilj-Nova Gorica. That's what it says, 32 years ago we should be doing another one after so many years. And that disturbed us in the Vipavska Valley when we had to make decisions, I think, 1992 or 1993. In the municipal world, to confirm the idea of building a highway along the Vipavska Valley, when it was already known that Sežana would connect, which was not previously planned, we were not offended by this, and in our then party SKD, we suggested that no highway, not a fast road, should be built through Vipavska Valley, but we would only update the existing road and make the trip through Rebernica, that is, the retreat belt and the second leg over Col. And all of that, both the legs, if I calculated with today's numbers, I wouldn't be worth a tenth of the Rebeccas that are being built today. The ribs are an extremely demanding project because the terrain is sliding and the pilots have to work, up to 35 meters deep, for each pillar by four pilots, which very, very much attracts construction. So it's 10 billion per kilometer, I mean, somewhere real price. At that time, we also suggested that consideration should be given to the possibility that the road, if it had to be on the other side of the valley, would come up higher than Razor towards Sežana. I don't know how the experts decided. Geologists have also said that the problem is practically the same, but that there would be so many viaducts, so many embankments, and I don't know what, because the configuration of the terrain itself is different. But I'm not sure, or I've never heard that terrain slide. So there's already been a huge mistake if that's true; I think it is. Well, after going into the realisation of this section - I'm saying this because I'm warning you that you wouldn't be repeating a mistake if it's even possible to have that opportunity to make mistakes, because the highway program is somehow ending, on paper, of course. But I cannot help but mention how it was designed in the Vipavska Valley and, of course, just implementation. Someone remembered - when they were building through the village, it was meant to be a one-time intersection - that that crossing was not good to extend the road from Sela to Ajdovščina, but they forced the bridge out, then someone on the other side of the road remembered that they were now - and they forced another bridge. So at a length of approximately 700, 800 meters is possible a three-time intersection. That's unacceptable! And now some say it's in the village of Trogostos. The same problem or the same thing happened again under the Boxes, a four-time crossing at an even shorter distance. At that time, as a congregation councilman, I warned of this. As a builder, I knew these things, and I was preparing to move to Skrill from Ajdovščina, which I did. I warned you about these things, but it didn't work. And then it happened that those connections had to expand so that two cars could meet and so on. But that's what makes it all so exciting. But when all the saints tried to make a left turn in the valley, but not that, it costs, it takes so much and so much, and I don't know what. But it is also true that the designer did not let anyone say anything to him, and of course that went as well. But I have heard from behind that there have been some interests, I can say, even in such a way of corruption, that as many objects as possible, say, undercarriages and superstructures, connections and so on, so many more designers cash out and those who approve of it to share some money with them. That's possible. I'm the only one who has no argument. So, there were some weird things going on. If all that money wasn't wasted, and it's still a waste, for Rebecca, we could've done that on the other side, and there'd be some money left for somewhere else. If I watch this program all the years, about one half of it is realized there. At least until now. And it also spent a little more money on that half if we talk proportionally. Now we're wondering, where's that money that was supposed to be approved every year, it was spent, say, I don't know, 50, 60%, where the other 40% is. This shows what transparency we have in our country. There's only one more thing I'd like to say that's bothering me. It's a toll station in Vogrska. They say the analyses, the studies are made to be worth it. Given the fact that there will be electronic road transport in a few years, it is now worth making four toll stations in Slovenia, which will cost 2 or, I don't know, how many billion tolars. Then they'll be in place for a few years, then they won't have to. I don't know. I really don't get it. I suggested, and I made an amendment that didn't go through to Shenpeter in Bazar to lower the toll by one-third, try for two months, and see if there was really less money. I think it would be more because highways we work to use them to drive cars, but not to have them just to see and raise prices with tolls and cash. If this toll station is going to be made in Vogreska, then instead of going off the Vogreska highway, they'll be walking down the village. Otherwise, I never use this road because I'm closer to getting to Nova Gorica on the old road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you very much, buddy Mamich. Comrade Kontic, you have your word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It has already been demonstrated from the discussion at the meeting of the parent working body that there have been concerns about complementary programmes to extend the implementation of this programme. That is, of course, exactly and logically, but so far it has been. The argument that the supplementary programme is not financially defined is true, but also the basic part that has been financially defined and should have been completed should have already been implemented and will not be completed for several years. I agree that the Government's proposal is needed in the National Assembly as soon as possible to adopt the national programme of other state roads. However, the requirement or forecast itself is not yet the reason that in subsection 4/1, additional lines, among others, were deleted, where the section of Dravograd-Velanje-Arja Vas is listed, in total length of 51.4 kilometers. This action is unacceptable for the area from which I come, so I also welcome the expected move of the Ministry of Transport or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which returns to the text on the Committee's deleted additional programmes. The reasons set out by the applicant as a justification for the inclusion of additional programmes in the national highway construction programme are at least convincing for me: improving and increasing the level of road traffic safety due to road congestion on existing main and regional roads in the direction of future motorways and of course fast roads, linking individual regions and major urban areas to the motorway network. I am also adding to this the needs of the economy, which he has already discussed on behalf of the People's Party's Group, Comrade Podobnik, in areas that are now practically cut off from important transport links. A typical example is Gorenje from Velenje, whose road infrastructure is an obstacle to the further expansion of production. When, or if, for a long time, a better solution has been announced, the resolution we are discussing today will, of course, change as a result. And that won't be new either.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you very much. A fellow Rockhead. You have your word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government and Darsa, Members and Members of Parliament. It is likely on the ground that the current proposed rebalancing of the motorway programme is the most realistic of all the proposals that have been or have been adopted in this Parliament so far. In this regard, I believe that it is certainly necessary for the applicants to give all recognition. I believe, however, that at this point we are faced with a very decisive and delicate issue and, of course, a decision: Do we want to complete the construction of motorways as soon as possible in this country and, on this basis, to give urgent attention also to investment, investment maintenance and modernisation of state roads as soon as possible? I believe, and here I share with my colleague Sok his conviction and also his opinion that two things should be decided at this time. To complete the existing and planned motorway programme as soon as possible and to prepare two national programmes: a national programme for the construction of major state roads and a national programme for the construction of other state roads. Different bidding in connection with the highway programme does not give credibility, nor will it give credibility to this national assembly, nor to the government. In this particular case, I believe that if the government has allowed bids, then bids should be made to the end. And in this case, the amendment of the Young People's Party is true. Why? Because it links all of those parallel highway networks in this country, which are currently incarcerated and is the result of the State investing too little in these areas, including Koroška, not to speak of Zasavje or Lithija from this area, and then in relation to Posavje, where the accelerated construction of the highway programme has cut these areas off from faster development. We have a coherent regional development under the highway program. However, this also prevents faster development in other areas. And here's where we're gonna have to make a decision. Or, say, we're going to run a highway program, one that really only belongs to the highway program, and we're going to set priorities that belong to the second rank and the third rank. For a long time, we have been expecting a programme to build state roads. But I must be honest with myself that I fear it because it will only be a good thing because there are no real financial resources in this country at this time, and because this country should first, if it wants a coherent regional development, start to resolve that parallel part in addition to the basic highway programme if it really wants to connect Slovenia at this second level. We don't have that answer right now. I expect that, in this mandate, we will have an answer to at least a second question, how to resolve this first most important parallel level of the highway programme in this country, because we believe that we are doing indeed an unequal position in the possibilities of life and the quality of life for people in these areas. I therefore believe that today, regardless of the needs of one or another area, I think we should not accept any amendments. Not the amendment of the parliamentary groups, not the amendment of the government, which goes even further. If we want to be principled and proper. If one amendment is accepted, then it is necessary to accept the amendment of the Youth Party, because we are actually inconsistent with each other and to make this pure bidding. That is why, in the end, in case we vote on an amendment, I will support all the amendments, and I will apologize. Because I am also coming from an area where I have been warning for the eighth year in this National Assembly, although much has been done, but because it is literally written down, it is still written down, despite the efforts of the State to enable a normal infrastructure connection to this capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Joseph Jerovšek? [[No, no, ……]] Anton Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, President Darsa, colleague and colleague! It is difficult to discuss the resolution of the national highway construction programme for several reasons. If the motion for a resolution is indeed prepared on a realistic basis this time, any supplement adopted will undermine this system. That is why I did not table amendments myself, and I expected the Pirean Highway to be built in full by 2013. On the other hand, I am pleased that this resolution has to some extent corrected the big mistake that was made when the national programme was adopted ten years ago. Let me remind you that Ptuj has been lying on an important intersection of silk trails, piranha roads and amber roads for two thousand years now, and that the national programme has ignored this fact ten years ago. Personally, I am still convinced that the highway in Prekmurje should go after the panic. It is true that the programme at the time made a quick road to Slovenska Bistrica-Ptuj-Ormož, which was not built in time. So, as I said, I am glad that both the Slovnica-Drazenci highway and the Bistrica-Ptuj fast road are finally placed in the space and that this allows the roads to be really built by 2013. I really just hope these hands hold up this time. Let me remind you that the area I come from and talk about since 1 May this year is an area along the southern border. The moment we tear down the fences on the west border, we build them on the south border. The area at this southern border is already so and so underdeveloped and will cause additional problems in this area. However, the construction of these roads will at least partially mitigate the negative effects of this Schengen border, but of course we expect other measures. Despite the concerns expressed, I believe that the resolution is well prepared, and I will support the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Minister, government guests, colleagues and colleagues! It may be appropriate to remember today that this is already the second highway construction programme in Slovenia. The first program didn't go anywhere, and this one goes very slowly. The first program may have been a victim of the revolution or vice versa, but it is probably a victim of circumstances that we do not all know. In New Slovenia we welcome the arrival of this national programme in the National Assembly and hope that this programme will be accelerated, although you predict very long deadlines. I want to know why. In fact, I don't know if this has been well explained anywhere, because for such a gigantic program, what you need is knowledge of people, political will, talent and money. So, what do we really need to be so late? Probably every single one of them. However, as far as money is concerned, of course, the government did not have a clear enough programme at the beginning of which priority this programme should have. As we look around, we may wonder why some other countries are more successful in building motorways than we are. For example, Croatia is said to be building faster, cheaper and also successful. According to media reports, the answer is that our territory is much more difficult than theirs. I don't know about that, but it's weird that we're behind them. Maybe one of you will explain that. In Novi Slovenija we will support government amendments. Personally, I am very pleased that the government has put back two amendments, because without these two rails or connecting roads, the fact is that Škofja Lok would have been completely blocked in both valleys there in Primorsko. If I think like Skopheločan that we have been talking for two decades about the need to build a highway or bypass in Škofja Loka, I am surprised that the Škopheloletians have looked so patiently at the destruction of one part of the city so far. All the trucks and everything goes there, and that we'll probably, as I heard at a meeting a few months ago, wait at least until 2007, if we don't go any further, this bypass will start building. I think that in other countries of Europe, as well as Slovenia, no place would suffer from this. Perhaps we Gorenjeks are too modest, too little demanding, or too little aggressive. And we'll have to think about that in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u222	I give my word to Mrs. Jerica Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u223	Mr. Vice President, dear people! As far as I'm concerned, of course we're late for our Koroška for many, many years. As this corridor is flowing and urgently needed, I will base it on the following facts. A few years ago, a railway was taken down through Koroška and the Thinkinj Valley, which was unmerciful and unknowable because of what, in fact, had been cut off, and, as I know, it was given to our brotherly republics at that time. This unreasonable and regrettable move was then made, and then there was a flow channel just right here through this unfortunate awful hole. However, the Koros persisted stubbornly and developed. We have an excellent, highly competitive and long tradition of a perfect hospital, we have a highly developed culture that can look like everyone in Slovenia, we have schools and factories. In short, this province is developing with its people in a high and comprehensive manner. And I think it's worth it and the country must be flowing. But there's one thing that I'd like to give you a special warning about, and that's why I'm talking to you in a special way, because I just came from another profession, and that's why I'm speaking a little differently than everyone else. Look, this valley is enclosing north. There's a divorce in thought, and they're already making roads from the north. Don't worry about making them work to get these countries into their arms as soon as possible. Don't think that's not true. I'm talking about some philosophy of life, maybe not so formal, because I don't know, but I know that I feel these things exactly. And I feel for Primorsko and Koroška, and also for Slovenia, for history, because I know it, the cultural history of the past, and also endlessly afraid of the time that it was during the counter-reform. That is why I ask you to be so sensitive, and that you must take from the heart of this country one vein, so important, even to the north and so vital that these people can live in full blood as they need to, and connect them to the Slovenian road cross. This is absolutely necessary. Now, let me just say one more thing, even though I know it's not the right time and place, and I don't know if it's allowed, but I have to join because I haven't had the chance. What some colleagues have previously afforded in this room is baleful and masculine, and I think it is not worth this space and not the people we represent here. Here is a different place and I ask you to secondly - now not everyone is here - but to refrain from such balinian matters. Thank you very much and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u224	Geza Juban gets a word to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The national highway construction programme is an ideal opportunity to politicise in one direction or another. I'm at this event, which we can call a circus again, 11 years old. And we have struggled for so many years by coming so far, we have, I think, been able to say, together with many in this country, not just parliament, government, Dars, etc., that in recent years this national programme has received one real framework, dynamics and performance that has stood. The programmes were being implemented. Today we are back on the test, on the test, which will bring down the entire national programme for the construction of motorways. And we're going to do from the highway program what we've been doing for years after 1993 that we've been politically expanding it here into frameworks that we haven't endured, not physically, not financially. From then on, a billion and a half dollars, we already have 6 billion now, when we say that this is a number that stands, and we're probably going to get a number that's not going to stop at all today. And we will have immediately in the next government, whatever it is, a rebalancing that will no longer be able to control the national programme on the construction of motorways. Today we listen to all possible stories across Slovenia, from different ends. Some connoisseurs of the situation might have said this in the meantime, I have been sceptically monitoring one gentleman, called Črnivec, who in one person announced the entire program of building highways in the Republic of Slovenia, in one person. [[...]] He's still got it all today. And the last time he was on TV, he also said we had a chance to take him down. We pay the whole highway when we drive to Ljubljana, except for the section that was last opened and we are happy. One journalist, one of the twelve, even wrote that this is an important section for the inhabitants of both sides of Mura, while others write stories that we are selling to politicians. Some say the Dolenjs don't pay the toll because there's an LDS official. We see that mayors collect signatures and civil initiatives, that they pay too much toll and will not pay. Others say that Gorenjeks do not pay the toll because there is another LDS official, but there is also a civil initiative that says they will not pay the toll. We have built a modern road, a dam in Ljubljana, Trzin, Domžal, we have moved the railway. They won't pay any more tolls either. The roadway represents, gentlemen of the dars, how much? 25%? More. It means we will no longer build highways under our national highway construction programme. And we'll do it in this "bye," I apologize, I respect her, in this national council. One of the representatives, who represented the views of the parliamentary groups, does not matter who it is, because it is the same everywhere, said, "We will support the programme, which is so important, along with the amendments". That's the whole point. If we want to tear it down, let us accept the amendments and finally accept the conclusion that we will no longer collect the tolls. Let us make a country that will increase the budget for the time being and will end the collection of taxes. We are so far away from the national highway construction programme. I used just one example about the pomurski leg or some illustration of what was going on. I didn't say anything else. Although I have been monitoring construction for 11 years, I guess I didn't know this construction as well as some colleagues who described exactly every section of what was wrong with it. What a state and government is that, in this one term, it was not possible to make all motorways and all sections. I think we need to consider whether we want - the time is awkward, we are before the elections, of course - whether we really want to keep this national programme of building highways in some dynamics. I'm very rarely advertised myself, today perhaps as much as everyone else, but I don't have much time and I will also conclude - that we mean smart and sober what it is to do [[Amendments also favour individual parts of Slovenia]] , because otherwise we will not have a national programme for the construction of motorways that could be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has a word to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Now I should actually say, and ask you to tell me if we're not on the show, "It's not true, it is!" But you probably won't tell me. But for what is happening, it is almost in fact impossible to find an expression, in what way this person would say that, and so some interests can prevail over what some authorities are trying to agree on somewhere at some level, such as, let's say, on the Infrastructure Committee, when we agree on something, we are trying to take something, even though those Members who have a majority have taken these decisions - I know that at that time I did not vote on the Committee to delete certain projects from the National Programme - but we agreed [[Mr. Anderlich was present, I don't know who else was there, because we can see who was signed.]] We made a deal, but today it's all completely different. Yeah, well, we can't work like this. And we're always doing the same thing and trying to outplay each other. I would also really like to propose a connecting road, even a mile away, at what end, where I know it would be necessary, but I didn't, because you suggested that these things be arranged differently. And the government has proposed that this can be deleted and so on. Today, of course, Mrs Irma, who did not come in with her interest because they had launched a rumpomp, was now laughing and enjoying how she would achieve her well and would be very popular, but then she did not force herself through her Members to accept these things. The question is whether this will be adopted today or not, but we cannot work in this way. And then you talk about populism, and you talk about politicians, and some talk about people's pressures about local communities, and who knows. Yeah, well, why are we even here, even though you don't need the opposition, anyway. However, you need it, even in such cases that there are such complications as, say, today, where in such a strange way you try to create a division between Members, that you give one something, and you don't give the other anything, or a program that should contain certain things, for an area then contains certain sections and so on, and not on the other. This is one big mess in this country from the beginning, eight years I've been here, Mr Anderlich can confirm what is being done on these highway programs. If this is exemplary, in a state of order, then I too am likely or will be a slow archbishop, not just a pope. I'd like to make some arrangements, but I don't think we'll be able to. Surely before the end of this point or before the vote, you will probably agree and reach a consensus in the coalition, and this will be voted out. But I'm just telling you, that's not how it's done. It's not fair, it's not fair, it really isn't! If you were going to do anything, with any amendments, it would be fair and proper for all of us to consult a little together, including the opposition. Why not? You can always vote it out if you want, but it's not fair, it's not fair. In this way, in our home country, we cannot truly accept some good solutions, satisfying solutions, with which people would be content. I really don't know if the thinking crisis has arisen in this country or any other crisis or decision-making crisis or the crisis of governance or what is now one crisis, that no one can agree on any more. I won't say another word, but that's really all I'm telling you, we shouldn't be doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u228	Branko Janc gets the floor for the debate. Irma Pavlinič Krebs replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I must respond to Mr Kelemina's statement that I did not get the road and that is why we started shouting and screaming. To be honest, thanks for the compliment, my desire is obviously immeasurable that the government is proposing a road that you consider to be my pain. Dear Mr Kelemina, in my discussions with the mayors of Koro, I explained that Mr Ranc quoted me as saying: "The Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure has taken into account Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Vice-President of the National Assembly, and said that it was only about removing Koroška from the highway programme, not from the national programme for the construction of other state roads, where the Koroška road should be safely included." And an explanation. I personally assess that it would be really necessary in this space and very necessary to adopt a strategy for the development and maintenance of state roads, because I assess, given all the parameters that this road would have experienced with other resources, as well as the resources for motorways, faster building dynamics and that this space would finally be linked to a highway cross. I certainly expect that. However, if you look at the highway program and all that is foreseen for this fast road, the location plan is by 2010. If you think I'm happy with that, I'm not. I'd like another program and faster dynamics. So please, if you read these things. I generally agree with you and with the committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you. Branko Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u231	Thank you. Given the amendments tabled, I think today's time for discussion is too short. We're all anxious because there's something else you'd like to say. At least that is probably true of our colleagues in my Group. The issue of highway construction has a long beard and I am participating in the third national programme. I think it'd be perverse if I worked with a fig in my pocket for the third time. It's happened twice. We have twice adopted a national programme that had no real coverage. And, of course, we are always proposing with some compulsion, as will be the case today, with the confirmation of this programme and the pre-existing behaviour that it will not be built within the envisaged deadlines. At least, of course, it would be justified to fly arrows to Dars, because Dars is just an artist. This is what the government accepts and what the National Assembly approves with the national programme or with the annual programmes. I'm not going to explain the history of building highways. We started building them from the inside out to the borders, 10th and 5th corridors, by showing us today exactly the protests where the highways were already built. They're protesting that they won't pay the toll. There they protest against not wanting to have toll stations. There they protest that the main cargo and passenger traffic avoids toll stations and additionally burdens the local road network. And I wonder, not only how we're going to set up new sections and build them, but I'm asking the question of what we're going to do with it. Where do we have financial resources? At this point, we have 4: credits, there is a bond tender, budget and tolls. Roads happen to fall rapidly, and on some sections where you could pick up a billion and more at only one toll station, the government or the minister had to give in to these demands. One part is probably a reasonable decision. On the other hand, the indebtedness of the country, which was originally projected at about a billion 700 million dollars, we have already come closer and it is also an assessment by the Institute at the Faculty of Law that the debt has exceeded all the limits. Financial resources have only decreased by 4 billion this year, and I wonder what source we're going to replace them from, and as a 4th source, these are bonds, and this is where everything comes from. So the decision not to decide on concession building is wrong for me. The mistake was made in 1995 when there were still possibilities. I say that there is still a possibility today that one part of the motorways or fast roads that we will toll, will also be built in concession building. Perhaps for those of you who are not so familiar with the events or what is actually happening at this time and the tensions prevailing in this room today. Things happened on the committee, of course, exactly as my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, told me. The Committee considered that the adoption of the national programme for the construction of motorways was one story which, of course, must be discussed as soon as possible and that there were virtually no specific amendments and comments to this part. Secondly, the government did not prepare, in accordance with the Public Roads Act, adopted in 1997 nor the strategy for the development of the state road network, nor the national programme for the construction of the state road network. And this is the subject of a dispute that those who want to, and these ambitions of theirs, are fully reasoned with me. If we went to look at the magnetograms back, I emphasized years ago the need for a faster construction of another state road network. This is unsustainable that sub-regions or entire regions cannot be firmly linked to the Slovenian motorway cross. It's not just about carists, it's about regional development, where the smart connection is pre-conditional. I'll tell you again, government representatives. That's why it's your fault to a large extent. This government or government in front of you, even though it is my government, deserves all the criticism. My position on this is once again that the committee has done very well. The Committee decided to approve the motorway programme and at the same time to request and adopt a decision entrusting the government to prepare a programme for the construction of the state road network by the end of April. And if we were willing to do that, then this mess would be gone today. You wouldn't have to accept any amendments because one part. I'll tell you what. The amendments are stupid and they don't belong in this program. If the arguments for these amendments apply, for this programme, then there are a number of arguments where there are no such amendments. I suggest that you reconsider until the vote, as it may be that the national route will be unconsistent, that it will not be covered with financial resources, that it will not be adequately covered with hands and that there will be complete confusion. So once again, I suggest you consider what we will do in the next two three hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u232	Comrade Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Your Honor Minister. See, we are talking about the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which I think is very important, especially because the programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is the only feasible, real response of the country to threatening centralisation or the only contribution, the only real contribution of the country to coherent regional development. From this point of view and from this assumption, this national programme should also be viewed However, I fear that the content of this national programme does not follow what you have recently written under the basic principles of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, where it is written in the third indent that this programme must enable and ensure the coherent and equitable regional and economic development of all economic regions, as well as the further development of the country in the framework of its membership in the European Union. I think there's a key in here. The existing motorway routes fear that everything too difficult to take over and release through Slovenia European traffic flows, which will burden our environment in the long term, leave negative impacts on the environment and are not sufficiently focused on ensuring that all Slovenian regions are connected to the centre. In this sense, according to what I have said, I will also support all those amendments, especially those that speak of the appropriate relationship of the Arya village with Koroška. Here's the basic dilemma. Are we building motorways to be followed by foreigners, to drive east European, Russian and Ukrainian trucks, or are we building highways to use by Slovenians, to bring the Slovenians closer to the centres, using such built highways to equalize and gain the same starting point of opportunity in our possible life and development? This is one of the most crucial and most pressing dilemmas. I think that we have not found a suitable agreement on this dilemma if you look at this basic highway cross, which ignores Koroška, Posavje, and there is something else to say. Another dilemma that comes to mind. In no case should this happen in the future when we talk about the resolution, about the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, in order to take account of the neglect of the other road network. No one can convince me it wasn't like that. And this is also completely contrary to what you have written under the objective of releasing and increasing security on the parallel and other regional road network. I think it is very modest, if not even shyly, that the objective of building a national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia is that essential objective that aims to improve and increase the level of safety of participants in transport. I think we should put this first, even in the fact that your studies have shown that building this highway network would halve the number of dead road users. Here you are, I will say, a little too modest or this is not the appropriate priority that you would expect when building a highway network, or because of the implementation of the programme, also neglects traffic safety on the parallel road network, the network of regional, local and other roads. The third issue I would like to mention in my debate, which I think is, last but not least, crucial for the continuation of the fate or for the progress of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, but this unfortunate toll system. Look, here we have this mess, this chaos, I'm gonna say, this thing is so inconvenient, it goes beyond all normal boundaries. The initial ambition or initial system, which was closed, apparently collapsed when highways reached Ljubljana and when the Ljubljanaians found that it was not good to pay the toll for the bypass around Ljubljana or for the use of motorways. This caused the closed toll system to collapse. Finally, this is due to the fact that the frequency of road toll stations is increasing in excess of the distance from the centre and that most people - this shows data on the number of traffic - drives free of charge around Ljubljana or in central Slovenia, which is totally unacceptable and puts other citizens in an unequal position. See, in here you also wrote ambitions to upgrade the existing toll system over the next period, especially with those stations that would prevent the avoidance of front toll stations. The toll stations are listed until the end of 2004: Krtine, Lukovica, Vodice, Vodsko, Ivančna gorica. I think that this is once again one of the firefighters' measures and that it would indicate in this national programme that it would be more decisive to take into account the conclusions that this national assembly, which Dars has recently adopted, has undertaken to introduce such a toll system that will cover all the users of the motorway, which would be the only normal and fair one in terms of financing future construction. Now we are in a very uneven situation, one of the citizens will pay twice for the construction of these motorways, the first time we pay the tolls, and the second, when we and our grandchildren and our grandchildren will pay the credits for the construction of these motorways. This is very wrong and the burden of building motorways, if we have already decided on such a system that we will build them ourselves, without granting concessions, should be more evenly distributed among all citizens or all users of motorways. Now I would like to mention another such, I will say, an example of how construction and good intentions, which are written in the resolution, do not achieve their goal in life. I can, I hope, argue that, for example, the lower Savina Valley, where I come from, by building this highway section because of the unhappiness of the unfixed construction of the front toll station, has not experienced any fundamental shifts concerning road safety, because, in order to avoid paying tolls, the motorway section from Vranskok to Šentrupert has not been significantly burdened. At this motorway section, they also forgot, in accordance with the resolutions and programmes previously adopted, to remedy the consequences of the construction of the motorway, which were created on this road network or have completely forgotten to maintain this motorway section. Whatever the case, I will say, ambitions to do something safe, on the safety of pedestrians, bikers, but this is only the wish of the inhabitants, who naively believed that after the construction of the highway we would get an adequate, secure parallel road connection, which was one of the nominees, or not least one of the promises made by the planners of this highway section through Savinja Valley. I would like or cannot understand another fact related to the price of construction that has a decisive impact on the final price of built motorway sections in the construction system, as we know it, which is almost amazing to hear that 21% to 25% of the money needed to build one highway section is spent on preparatory works or that so much money is spent before something concrete happens on a particular motorway section. I understand the ambition of designers, planners, I know that they have abused all possible legislation, but in the state highway programme we should take a little look at this matter or try at least these costs for this soft part, for preparatory works to reduce to some reasonable limits without going a fifth or a quarter of the money for a particular road section before construction begins. This is small, little too because the burden or price of this payment is finally borne by all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and will be paid or paid by our sons, grandchildren and probably by someone else, depending on how demanding and expensive this program is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u235	Your Honor! In fact, it is a real shame what to do when it comes to the third time that the national highway construction programme has changed on the table, and when we are primarily talking about everything else, not motorways. The highways in a way to agree on where they will take place, where we will get the money, which traffic problems will be solved, and how we will eventually cover everything that needs to be covered. I'm talking here, of course, about the costs we make with this, although I don't think that the highway program is a cost, but it's an investment. When we started with these motorways, however, it was clear that it was a matter of solving traffic problems, that it was the roads that would connect Slovenian places on the so-called 10th and 5th corridors and several other cross roads, and Šentilj-Macelj on the other end towards Jelshans from Postojna or Kozina. And some of those connecting roads that are urgently needed, and all of this will also be tolled. That all those roads that will serve these basic corridors will be towed. And I am firmly convinced that we should collect the toll in a way that, by entering the Ljubljana ring, starts running counters, and actually charge everyone for the actual mileage. We did not build highways to keep people from fighting, from driving on highways, and because of the burden on the individual, we need to build additional parallel roads. I never thought it would be like this. That it will be necessary to build parallel roads because the highway loads them, seals them, and so on. I always thought it was something else. That it was the other way around. That it is more traffic safety, faster access, faster communication, faster economic development and so on. And, of course, we have things on our heads. 34 laws were passed by the National Assembly without the basic law on the gas toll, which provided a dedicated source for this construction, and anyone who just paid a fine litre of petrol or oil for a part of this highway and, of course, without the so-called two laws on Dars. First one and last year, one changed. And all of these 34 laws, however, tended to build a basic highway program. Today a man is forced to choose whether he is for the road Arja Vas-Dravograd, whether he is for the road Dramalje-Sentjur, or for the road Škofljica-Kočevje and so on. I'm for all the roads. For all directions, for all that is absolutely necessary in this country, and what is the greatest tragedy, it is, of course, that under these 34 laws, plus those that I also listed, we also passed the Public Road Act 1997, seven years ago. And they made it clear that a national programme should be put in place to increase the lack of state roads, precisely because the gap between some places and some centres and others away from it has increased. Differences in the transport safety standard have increased. Traffic was increasing, roads remained the same, speed was increasing and so on. In short, things have become so that we've favored an area, and we haven't done anything else. We are forced to talk about tolls today, when we have written at least ten times into all the resolutions, the annual programmes, in all the conclusions of the National Assembly, how we will virtually no longer be able to collect them, but there is no test method of electronic toll collection, even though all systems exist, although we could have tested them long ago. And I know you're sure to test this year, but you could have done it a long time ago. Why is there virtually no reference in this national programme to the European way of collecting tolls? People talk about it, let's go to the vineyards, let's pay once -- but don't say it's the past. That the European Union has decided that it is necessary to pay after the actual mileage, not after the flat-rate, and so on and so on. There is no talk in this programme about how we will make a unified fair system throughout Slovenia, but that everyone will pay for what they will actually transport. Of course, I will contribute to this embarrassment by leading the matter to absurdity. So that we will include in this programme everything that is on the table today, so that within two months the government will come with a national programme for the construction of state roads and that which does not belong in the highway programme will move there. Because people don't believe that this will ever happen again - let it happen here. And at a time when the conditions will be for moving elsewhere to provide other resources to go there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u236	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. My friend Peterle is not present, my colleague Montenegro is not present either. That's what Comrade Fabjan has to say. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Our team, Minister, representatives of Darsa, have been listening to this debate for two hours now, and I see that they are very concerned, not so much about the perceptions of my predecessor, including previous colleagues. But I think today is really a mess in this room, and on this occasion I also thank the chairman of the committee when he took the floor and explained the events at our two meetings, I think that 4.12. last year and in February this year how things were going. And to many of our colleagues who are not here today or tonight when they come here to vote, it will probably not be clear how these matters have come to light. Certainly I also agree with Mr Anderlic, who places toll collection across Slovenia as a priority, and that maybe the government here, Dars, we are not or have not done everything. It is also a fact that the Committee decided that a resolution on the national programme for the construction of state roads should be tabled by the Ministry in April of this year; this is how you comforted us. And it would be much easier if we had this resolution. But the fact is that this is not difficult, and I am sure that all the needs, all the wishes of the mayors from all over Slovenia who go to the Ministry, to the direction, and in view of the development programmes that are known in Slovenia, which are written a few years in advance, I think that the Ministry still knows well about these needs, and also certain projects are being developed. Therefore, if we are talking about all this work, I must remind myself of the discussions when we adopted the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, when we also requested several million, 10 million funds for this part of the reconstructions and the majority of the needs for the construction of regional roads, which was also pointed out today, that this national programme should have been done since 1997 in order to somehow follow the national highway programme, to build motorways also to these regional needs and poor state-of-the-art roads. Look, there was no such hearing at the time, and I think that the biggest government party could, with this great concern - great differences, regional differences in the different areas of Slovenia - perhaps then listened more to the needs given at the table, even in this room and perhaps even some amendments supported when we fought for a certain amount of money. From 1997 onwards, I think that a number of differences and a regional road from rural to urban areas would have been built and not so much to blame today for this national programme. Look, I would like to conclude by saying once again when we have two amendments, a government and an amendment to the youth party, that here some of our colleagues are changed mainly because this government amendment is nothing new, except for one part when it comes to joining the Ljubljana bypass. I think it's a state road from Skofljica to the south side of the road. Otherwise, this content was already in the original content of the resolution. And that was true after the extra program. The basic programme, the supplementary programme, and if we have a resolution ahead of us, see that all these sections are fast roads, highways are already in there. As well as connecting roads and highway networks, which were not part of the national programme. In short, that's it. Finally, they write their reasons in this resolution, but today no one has said that third reason. And I'm asking a representative of the Ministry, a third reason. Why is that necessary, these sections? It writes the fulfilment of the obligations undertaken by the Republic of Slovenia through international agreements and initiatives relating to the construction of international road corridors. That third reason doesn't convince me. Those two are certainly such content that it would be worth thinking about then also the proposal that the chairman of the committee said that there might be some pressure on you and that you will have to give certain answers by the end of this meeting. First of all, I'd like to remind you of these three reasons and the last reason he convinced me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. The couch has a word. Please. Then my friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u239	In two months and a few days, we will enter the European Union and it is right to ask ourselves whether the roads we are talking about today are the goal or the means. I would mark roads as a means of achieving certain goals. Some colleagues have already talked about the developmental angle of roads. Of course, it is also necessary to ask ourselves at this point, but what about our national body. What roads mean for the preservation of the Slovenian national body. We have in our neighborhood in the west of Furlania, the Julian landscape, we have in the north of Graz. These two strong centers work centripetally. So we draw our border regions into our area and ask ourselves how we are facing this problem with the highway cross. Not good. A little better if we also consider the system of state roads at this highway crossing, where we have a lot of problems. However, I strongly support the thinking of my colleague Anderlich, who has put integrity at the forefront of ensuring the implementation of the basic highway programme. I also understand the desire to clear the programme on the Infrastructure Committee because there may have been a real mix. In addition to the basic programme of the basic body, motorways to certain other roads, connecting and connecting. Of course, I agree with the view that these complementary programmes are to be discussed only on condition that they do not begin the dynamics of the construction of the basic motorway body. But let's see what we've already done in the past in this area. We have 11 projects implemented under the highway programme, which belong to this mixed category. We have the Lendava bypass, we have the Vučja vas-Radenci road, we have the western bypass in Maribor, we have the Ormož bypass, we have the Maribor road in Celje, we have the railway in New City, the Šempeter bypass, the Ajdovščina bypass, we have the Koper-Dragonja road, we build the connection and the Lopata road in Celje, and we are preparing construction in the framework of Darsa for connection and the Ljubecna road in Celje. So, we are talking about the different approaches that hang on the highway programme, and I believe that this is good and useful, but of course we also have in this programme, which the government is now trying to complete with its amendment to the amendment, similar ambitions. That is why I think that where it is appropriate to seek consensus and consensus that whatever we accept today must be the building of a fundamental highway cross. For everything else, which is connecting and connecting, it can, of course, be dynamic to build this highway cross. Now, it is impossible for us to talk about the resolution on the highway programme, not to talk about anything further about the toll problem, something has already been said. But it has to be said that this system, as it has now been born, is conflictful and is too economical. If we compare it to the situation in Italy, where tolls are also collected, where in Venice you get to the highway and step some thousand kilometers further into, for example, Naples somewhere or beyond, then of course this does not match the situation in us where we stop cars every few kilometers. The system is also conflicted because it puts us in different local environments on the surface of feelings that mean non-productive strife. Of course, it is easy to be after the battle of the general and find that perhaps it would be better to have wine and save a lot of money, a lot of nerves, a lot of costs. Now to be technologically prepared for more modern systems than Europe expects. But, of course, after the battle, it is easy, so of course we need to build from this system, which we now have, forward. I would like to highlight the need for an ambitious and concrete programme for the construction of state roads, covering fast roads, connecting roads and bypasses, but, of course, let us be clear about this programme, we can have an exact discussion when it is made with specific financial resources, and I think that, of course, it is also a good time that everything that we more or less agree does not fall within the narrowest context of the construction of the highway, that it is, of course, also transferred to this national programme for the construction of motorways in that situation. I would also like to point out an extremely critical issue of connection from the upper sides. The measurement shows that we have already reached the burden of 70,000 PDLP, says the average daily annual traffic, and therefore is the rehabilitation of the situation including connecting roads, i.e. the Šentvid-Kosese, which is fortunately already in construction, and the Stanežiča-Brod connecting road to Črnuče, then the Jeprca-Vuje road and the four-passenger Medvode-Sentvid, so it is essential that we establish a comparable standard of traffic flow for Slovenia in this part of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Comrade Tank, now you have the floor. At the same time, I apologize for skipping you before. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Well, at the beginning, when I was representing the position of the Group of Members, I still believed that this programme was a serious matter, a serious government project. That is why I also said in the introduction that I would expect the Prime Minister to be here in such a large project, because it is an important reform with something, I don't know, whether it's 1000 and a few billion or more. He's not here. And I must say, in a way, I was quite surprised when the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly, which also gives the Prime Minister, said he would do anything to banalise this programme brought about by the government. To make sure that the solutions inside make sense, and to force the government to come in in two months with a national road programme. And then we'll rebalance this existing program again. In short, all summer we will be dealing with the madness that someone will try to get into this state programme, the national highway program. If you had been so radical, then you would have had so much power to sign what you said publicly. Because you're obviously the godfather of this amendment submitted by the Youth Party. Obviously. Because there's everything you've said that's written, and that's exactly what's banalizing this whole program. Tose says she's not just bringing in those urgent things she needed, she's bringing in everything. Even those where PDLP was only 200 or 300 vehicles per day. These sections of the road are written in there, too. That's a real banalization. And it is a shame that we are told this by the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest parliamentary party, who in fact has the key task of giving credibility to this government that runs this policy. I cannot accept that we are dealing here with such opinions, different opinions between members of the ruling party, between the government and members of the LDS. If I am listening to the chairman of Mr Janc's committee, you are sooner, Kavčič, then I wonder what you are doing in these governments, where everyone has his own opinion, every right, every "make" his own story and a burka of people and here all those who want to do something serious and contribute, even though we are only in the opposition. In short, the confusion you are making in this National Assembly is complete, and I think that this country does not deserve it for the money it pays us, and I think you should ask yourself your comradely conscience today in order to accept social self-criticism. I don't think the kind of nonsense that's happening here when we're adopting this program should be done, and it's a disaster for everyone who's sitting in here. Secondly, I must also say that the programme of motorways and state roads has been very unsynchronous. On the one hand, we had a highway program that was probably once again under your patronage, apparently. On the other hand, programmes on state roads were also being built in sync with the construction of the highway program. All these things that we are now pushing into this highway programme, with these rehabilitations we could have done a long time ago, whether the national programme of state roads would have been done or not, only little wisdom of all those who planned road rehabilitations and road connections, would have been necessary, nothing more, but we were doing sections where there is no traffic, with Rondoi and with all the stupidities, where it was necessary to save, I don't know, 10, 15 thousand PDLP with crazy spikes, all those who ran politics and government in these ten years and in these three rebalances and ten budgets, you failed to do and finally meet with these things. In short, what you have proposed with this amendment, subsequently proposed by the Youth Party, you have made an obvious deliberate diversion and are banalising, I would say, also your prime minister, who signed this programme, accepted it and all those who defend it on behalf of the government in this national assembly, and this is also the ministry. I think that's, I'd say, incomprehensible what you're doing, and that's why these things are so dear to you. And that's why we get these holes in every way we can, because everyone who has a little more power in this national council is doing their own policy, their program, their own rebalancies and spending their own way state money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u242	Replica, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u243	Mr Tanko would, of course, have been pleased if only his amendment had been adopted, but I think that those endings that are not in his amendment are entitled to roads as his. And it's not fair that he's rooting only for his own, but he should be rooting for everything. And to point to others, it's just his property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u244	Is there any explanation necessary because there are no replicas on the replica? Is it an explanation, not a controversy? Clarification, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u245	Thank you. In my debate on my amendment, I didn't speak at all. There's only so much to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u246	Good. Let's move on. My friend Kovtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u247	Thank you very much, President. What we have not done and what mistakes and stupidities we have made or done in Parliament in the past will not lead to a better programme today if we do not learn from these mistakes. As far as I'm concerned, I don't judge among the best experts and traffic experts myself, but here they are among us who they are. However, I am surprised that they have adopted such programmes, i.e. transport infrastructure programmes that are not in our honour. Because in the programmes they have released certain places that are both economically and socially dependent on road infrastructure. Let me mention just one thing: MGA Nazarje, Gorenje, Prevention, which employs directly and indirectly through 80,000 co-operators and are still connected or their production and sales are still somehow tied to the regulated and as good infrastructure, that is, the road infrastructure that is not there today. So I am surprised that what the government has proposed has been released from the Infrastructure Committee. Of course, I support this resolution, with the amendment to the amendment, which the government has also somehow put into the National Assembly. We should have a resolution and we should have a tail and a head. I think he has only a tail, he has no head yet; he will have a head when the national programme for the construction and maintenance of state roads arrives in the National Assembly. We've talked about this before. With this amendment to the amendment, this mistake will somehow be resolved. I will therefore support both the resolution and this government amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u248	Thank you very much. A fellow Comedian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u249	President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that the year 2013 is the year when what is basically necessary and the condition for us to get the highway cross and that the basic skeleton is still with some other connections and what is still needed to make this cross work. Of course, it is very important for the whole of Slovenia to be bound by transport between themselves and also linked by the fact that this transport infrastructure would also provide conditions for development opportunities, because of course road construction is a cost, but on the other hand, it is the biggest catalyst for development, if it is correctly set and properly directed. This is especially felt by those who live at this point in traffic-cut places and where traffic becomes an obstacle in the first place to the non-incentive factor. Of course, traffic is increasing throughout Slovenia, that is clear and I know and I believe that everyone at each end has their own problem, which we would like to solve as quickly as possible. With us in Koroška, this means the first and farthest obstacle, and also in the program written as a solution to the traffic corridor and later as in the proposal of the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia will be a cross-link with the regions where Slovenia is the widest, from the Austrian border and the link to the Celovec - Graz motorway all the way to Karlovac, when once a modern road can connect the Belo krajina, Dolenjsko, Zasavje, Savinjsko, Šaleško, and also the Koro region, where these regions are now at least connected. For me, the amendment is an illusion, but also the hope that after 13 this necessary road, which will connect and transport at least 160,000 people, will come along, which is what I will say, because we are in fact separated in some way. On the other hand, Austria, where we live, in Podjuno and Rož, is connected along the plains with larger, international and interstate crossings, which will slowly become closer to us by the end of the border. And here too is our duty to take a little more care of or help these people on the other side, now on the other side of the border and then somehow approach. I said an illusion because in 2010, if the amendment was adopted and if we had a location plan in 2010, of course, this means that the start of construction is still quite far away. And I would like to at least wait for that day, not behind the wheel, but in parallel with the steering wheel, to take some of the first meters of this road, but, of course, to everyone else. That is why I would also like such laws, such resolutions, such programmes, which will take the whole of Slovenia as quickly as possible into such good transport connections, so that we can all go as fast as we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Comrade Comedian. A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u251	Thank you very much. This national assembly or those national assemblies that have been so far are probably the main culprit that this country has never actually had a real transport policy. Although she had some documents written down, they were not valid. This year, for the first time, the government has already tried in its proposal to get closer to the normal and basic one, that only highways are built out of highway money, and what is of course necessary for these motorways. We were even more rigorous on the Infrastructure Committee, and in fact we said that only what is really a highway would be. If that's the case, I'll just give you one example of that. Two, actually. The first is the Pyhrna Highway, and I do not want to talk about it, but only as an example, for which ten and so many years ago they were sitting here and, of course, the governments of that time simply thought that the world would end there. And that they will never drive their cars towards Croatia again, but I don't know what it was and it wasn't in any programme, even though it's one of the most important European roads. And now we need to put it in. And second, of course, is the unfortunate toll system, which is not a system, but this is tolling without a system. Everything in this area is wrong. Everything you can do is wrong. Since we built toll stations, we demolished the same toll stations, built new ones, and demolished new ones. Someone will probably figure out how much money we have thrown out so that today's national sport is in Slovenia, how quickly you get from Maribor to Ljubljana for the least money, because you need to know exactly where you're going out and where you're paying, where you're not paying, how we're all going to drive without tolls, so we don't have to build toll stations and so on. But there was so much talk about Europe going on with the new toll system, that we're still thinking and writing that we're going to be testing for five years and so on. In short, the matter is very problematic. As for the return of some things. In fact, the government has lovingly proposed the truth in the basic programme, in the additional programme, two programmes have been the basic and additional programme, including what is now in the government's amendment. We've thrown it out on the board, and the government is bringing it back now. The second amendment, which is referred to as the Diacia Amendment, of course, has never been written anywhere in these acts, and of course such an amendment, and it actually breaks the national programme. He can tear it down, and so, of course, I don't think this matter can be taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Colleague Lydia Majnik has the floor. Replica, Comrade Diaca, please. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating to my colleague, the Kremjar. As regards the disruption of the national highway construction programme. You broke the national highway construction program when you were the first state road or the first kilometer of the state road classified NPiA. That was years ago. Since 1997 a national programme of state roads should be established. And what are we, really, first-class and second-class citizens in this country? Why can't people from the Cossacks' Subregion get to the highway? Why? That's why this amendment came about. I've completed it with the rest of the roads. Even from those ends, especially from the Styrian end. And why am I breaking this highway program with this amendment? That's not gonna hold. You broke it a long time ago. But I'll tell you more about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u254	Please, Mrs. Lydia Majnik. Ah, the explanation, yes, not the controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u255	An explanation very briefly. Two-pass section Novo mesto-Trebnje-Ivančna Gorica-Ljubljana, Ivančna Gorica-Južemberk-Crnomelj-Vinica, Novo mesto-Metlika-Petrnje-Kočevje and so on there is no Styria as far as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u256	Please, colleague Lydia Majnik. Colleague Lydia Majnik has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Today, in fact, one word has not been said that we have been in this decade since Slovenia exists, but we have built something. And I'm glad the aliens who are coming find out that we've built a huge house in ten years. I'd start with that. However, we would have continued to set priorities in 1993. One of them, for example, was the reconstruction of the main road Slovenska Bistrica-Hajdin-Ormož, which was already called Panonica in the documents. This road will now, even though it had a priority decades ago and is known as the Jantarna road built under the national programme by 2013, it took 20 years after its classification as a priority. Nevertheless, it still has some white foxes, since it is built only by Ormož and now the railway is built in Prague and the section of Slovenska Bistrica-Hajdin is missing from the programme because it ends there on the old road. The same or even worse is the situation on the old Silk Road, this is the connection north-south or today so many times mentioned Pyhrn Highway, which connects Hamburg with Istanbul. This direction is also recognised by Europe as a priority link between the north and the south, and by its failure to build it, both the European Union and the others, which are south of Gruškov, are being irritated. We read in the national programme that half of this road will be built by 2013, for the second half of the total length of 14 kilometres and 13.9 kilometers, until the end of 2008 we will only adopt a regulation on the location plan, and we will build it if we do so only after 2013, despite the fact that at the end of this motorway one of the three Schengen border crossings is Gruškovje. I count strongly that Europe will push us so hard that it will force us to build this road, despite all that we have done in the 20s or 30s since the beginning of this country. The road, which is existing, has an uninterrupted line across the entire length, and I am not sure if it will last another 15 or 20 years at such an increase in traffic. The civil initiative, which is at the end of where I come from, is very loud, threatens with traffic closures and I strongly hope that it will not come true, because then traffic will stand, not to Graz, but to Hamburg. Otherwise, I will support the resolution along with all the amendments, even though by excluding these amendments, our new national programme is a list of wishes and needs that should also be at the top of the agenda. I'm aware that we've built a lot, that there's still a lot to come, and I hope we can find smart solutions in the next two months.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. My colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, as Korošica, I sincerely thank all of you, there have been many of you who have supported this section, which the government proposes, one of the sections in Koroška. However, I would like to address in my debate the issue that is constantly emerging here. The question arises: Does an additional programme that has no financial dynamics, which does not, in fact, have no financial dynamics, which - as colleague John said, which is some kind of illusion, in fact only foresees location plans in a period of time - is this the programme and are these the funds that will also allow sections that are in the additional programme to be built in due course? Personally, of course, I believe that it is really necessary for the Government to make an effort and prepare a resolution on the maintenance and construction of state roads in accordance with the legal commitment. Why? Because I think at that point we will have to start thinking about other sources that will be available to finance the programme there. We are all aware, I think in one voice we stress that the motorway programme must not be compromised. That, therefore, the resources that have been foreseen by the laws so far are tolls, which are the funds of the cohesion funds of the European Union, budgetary allocations, those which must be essentially intended for the construction of the highway programme. However, I think we should start thinking about other possible sources of maintenance and construction of state roads. I think we are not thinking enough about the need for a coherent regional development programme for the 2007-2013 negotiating period, which, of course, will also see roads as well as those that can be launched into the European Union's Structural Funds. I think we are not thinking too much about combining public and private resources. Too little about concessions, too little about these modern sources, which I think at the same time, when adopting a resolution on the maintenance and construction of state roads, should be created in order to give some real, real evaluation of these sections, which are urgently needed, both in Koroška, both in the White landscape and both in Primorska and in various parts of our country, which are not directly linked to the highway cross and, of course, they feel deprived. Of course, at the same time, at the same time, I sincerely fear that, given that this resolution is already provided for in the 1997 Roads Act, that we will not be a part of it in these few months before the elections, if in these, I think that the country has not been a part of it for almost seven years. So I'm going to say, very much after home, "better sparrow in hand than pigeon on the roof." That is why I fully support the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which complement the additional programme with sections that have fallen out of committee due to the legitimate and necessary desire and ideas to reach another national programme. Why do I support you? I would really like to discourage those who say that even in the paper, I think I read in Finance today that it's pre-election gifts to some area. Indeed, Koroška is built by all indicators, because of this, not only because of the international aspect, but also because of it, in Austria the motorway is also built in favour of the Slovenes in Austria, and I think it is right that we come somewhere with our fast road along with our Slovenians beyond the borders. The traffic load on Holmec, where trucks and other vehicles arrive, is not modest, it is, according to statistics for 11,500 vehicles and is the most dense in Velenje, where it is 20,000 vehicles and further with 11,200 vehicles crossing to Arjo Vas. It's a lot of professional arguments, not political gifts. That's what you need to know. The orthographic barriers in this area are also those that call for a quick link, not least urgently needed, of course, by the calls of the economy that need openness in order to strengthen this pool economically. I really ask the government representatives to take these appeals from this city very seriously through the second programme and other sources, not least the maintenance of state roads, to which we allocate 17 billion tolars in the state budget. This means that we are only justly covering the necessary state roads across various parts of Slovenia. We're not capable of any work that needs to be repaired, actually. And with this programme to be created, new additional sources of maintenance and construction of state roads need to be considered. I claim that these are concessions, other types of credits and the funds of the European Union Structural Funds for more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u260	Thank you. Joseph Spindler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, members of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are adopting and considering a resolution on the national programme for the construction of the highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a big event for us and for our country, especially by joining the European Community. After 1990, the geopolitical situation in Central and Eastern Europe changed with Slovenia's independence. On the basis of these changes, it has decided on three basic strands: changes in transport policy due to the changed developmental strategic role of individual transport routes, which Slovenia's independence dictated, changes in traffic flows from north-south to north-west, which have caused crises in the Balkans. These changes were made when Slovenia joined the European transport flows concluded between Europe and the Republic of Slovenia. At the time, the most effectively destroyed state roads in the northeastern part of Slovenia were in fact, and they are still not fully rehabilitated. On this basis, however, it also translates the construction of a highway programme into subsequent years, which is not good for our area. No one is disturbed by the poor development of this area, the unemployment of this area, that we are mainly an agricultural area with very poor incomes. If there is no transport infrastructure, there is poor transport connectivity and thus no industrial development or new investment for new jobs and we are forever on the tail of the development of this country. It is irresponsible to include state roads in the highway programme and thus to hoard the construction of the highway programme, which was adopted in 1994, upgraded in 1998 and upgraded this year. Despite all these amendments, which are currently being tabled and have no financial obligations, I believe that the priority should remain in the construction of the highway programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u262	Thank you. Davorin Tarchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to get the title of the act, the resolution. I understand the resolution more than some sort of indicative declaration act, and we have probably written in the Rules of Procedure a little awkwardly that the national programme, which I think is a more binding act, is adopted by a resolution. And if that's the case, I'd say, gentlemen, above all, no panic. If many times we have not respected the laws on various gas tolls, if we have failed to respect national programmes and have already corrected them three times, I also think that the resolution will not hold back more than that, which is either way or simply a guiding act. But the joke's on the side. So, if we are serious about this resolution, but with regard to the basic dilemma of what the resolution on the national programme does and what does not say, I would say that I am in particular in favour of the view that it is necessary to build those motorways, which have already been identified in past national programmes, that they need to be built, and we have not built them yet. Now we find that we don't have enough money because we don't have enough money, but we're going to expand this national programme a little bit, so we can do even less, or even less, if you want. Well, I'd do it again on what's been said many times, on tolls that are a popular theme. And that's because you won't get such a stupid system on the ground, and I'm pretty sure of that. I wouldn't talk about the stupidity of this system, especially what we can do. We do not introduce Vinjet because the European directive does not so dictate. And it was time, the debate on vignettes started in 1993 and also the Austrians will certainly not be able to go to to tolls before 2008 and they could have vignettes for 20 years, and it would have been much more fair than what we have. But now's not the time, because we're too close. I am also not sure about the closed system that we can establish it because we should do such redesigns of existing motorways, imports, overpasses, exports, in addition to the disruption of toll stations, which has already happened, where we could make landing paths for 'jumbo-te', because such an extension is made there to make it irrational again. That's why the only way to get the toll as soon as possible is to pick up the toll. And I don't know why we've been deliberating for so many years, but nothing has happened, except that some studies have been paid. I debated it at least five years ago, if not years ago. And it was promised that a study would be done in a few months, but nothing was done. Well, how foolish this system could be if, say, we drove from Vienna to Rome or from the Czech Republic to Austria and Slovenia to the French border, we crossed Italy. We'd do more than a thousand kilometers. Of this would not be a fifth in Slovenia. We would stop eleven times, of which we would stop seven times in Slovenia. Seven times in Slovenia, four times in Italy, in Austria. And we wouldn't make a fifth of the way. And one more thing. We wouldn't make our way down the highways because we don't even have all the highways built on this system. But we'd pay seven times. Since it's 200 kilometers bad, I guess we'd do it in a bad hour and a half. And let's ask ourselves how long we'd be in line to pay the toll and how long, because probably ABC's Austrians or Italians don't have ours, and how much time they'd drive. I think we would have stood in line for more time if I wasn't talking about some columns on Kozina and so on, at the top, but under purely normal conditions. In my opinion, we would have waited more time to pay the toll than just drive cars. So, we have a toll station even 20 kilometers away. In comparable countries, even pumps do not have a toll station on these kilometres. That's a pearl pearl. And I don't know why, despite all the warnings, nothing is done. And I would add another one to this flower, which is the latest invention. Discounts to ABC card holders. Now there were discounts on 8,000. After the universal Slovenia has equipped itself with ABC cards, they are now 10% discounts for 50,000 tolars. For 15,000 tolars, 5% discounts. Well, reading Darsa’s website, 15.1.2004, informs us that there will be innovations in discounts. And very interesting findings. They say that these discounts had to change because the last decision of the year 96 was made, and at that time 1,500 kilometers were being transported to obtain a discount for those 8,000. Now it's only 731 kilometers away. So it would be logical for you to give discounts at 16,000. Not half a month's salary for a worker. But the worst part is the explanation, which is why the discount has increased the number of benevolent charges, which is logical, which have been more favourable, and as a result the flow of toll stations has decreased. What does that mean? Now all of a sudden, too many people are using ABC. Therefore, they need to be reduced because there is too much crap because there have been too many discounts, and they need to be sent back to manual harvesting. I ask you nicely, with all due respect, if so, I think we should bring these discounts in line and make them comparable, because otherwise it will become an uninteresting ABC system because it has unattractive discounts. The increase was also incorrect, irregularly high and it is a matter of lending, which is a considerable credit if it will even hold up and the users will actually buy it largely. But I would ask you not to offend the minds and minds of citizens when you give such a foolish explanation that the accuracy of the toll stations will decrease because they bought the ABC system. On the other hand, we say that we want to have an ABC system to reduce cash payments that cause congestion and we have [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] My appeal is to reconsider and make this matter more transparent and to reconcile the discounts, make them kind of normal, roughly. I understand that something needs to be reconciled, but not in this way with such explanations and to such an extent, in particular in order to do something about the toll and toll system after all these warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u264	My friend Wolf is away. Then it is your turn as the last of the reported colleagues of Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. An important part of the complementary programme, the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia also represents the upgrading of the toll system and a chapter on this. I am extremely dissatisfied with him alone and with the solutions he is proposing, as have many colleagues and colleagues who have already talked about this today, because he does not bring solutions to many protests, criticisms, warnings and even threats that we have been particularly intense in recent times. Since I am also a member of one of such committees, which was established within the municipalities of Slovenia, I would like to point out that the essence of the dispute is in the injustice, inequality and unfairness of tolling in Slovenia, which is not seen to end in the future. That is why, I think, conflicts will be increasing and it will be increasingly difficult to calm them down. These will be present until all are truly paying righteously according to the miles transported, as stated in this program. The vast majority of protests and indignations arise because, even in future solutions, it is not possible to see and find proposals leading in this direction until the introduction of an electronic toll system for the whole motorway network, which is being moved somewhere in the future. Everyone on the highway is happy and grateful that we have it that way. No one resists or resists fair toll payments if that were the case. Thus we have against the offshore closed toll system, which is probably the most honest at the moment. Everywhere else, however, a confused and "distracted" open system with freely distributed frontal toll stations and with planned additional toll stations on some exports that would prevent the overlying leakage of toll payments. These solutions only increase new conflicts. Traffic flow is reduced by crowds of front stations, drivers lose hours and hours in columns. Waiting at the front toll stations is a protected environment. The local road network shall be reburdened with transit traffic due to leakage. The damage to tourism is reflected in the professional ingenuity of Slovenian planners of such solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! With a truly fair and fair way of collecting tolls from all users, we could raise significantly more funds in the past, not only for maintenance of motorways, but also for construction. But obviously because of some, unfortunately unknown to me, you didn't know the interests of this money, and you don't know it now, and you won't know it in the future and you'll be able to pick up all the users of Slovenian highways. You accept and suggest also forward, and here is my great disappointment, with this program, partial, nonconstant solutions, a little there, a little here, here and there, and absolutely nothing. That is why I allow myself to see in you, my dear gentlemen, the culprits for all the disputes and protests that have been and will continue to arise, because of the non-professional solutions to to tolling in Slovenia, because with the existing complementary programme, this opportunity, unfortunately, has been delayed again, Today, it has been said that in the crowd, the capital is also responsible for halting toll payments. Unfortunately, this time I have to challenge and oppose, because it can't be Ljubljana's fault for everything. Fortunately also around Maribor and Celje, for example, there are no toll stations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u266	Thank you very much. With your debate, colleague Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, we concluded the general debate. We are now moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25 February this year. We'll get to four first. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Not yet. Just a minute. In the debate on amendments. You're not registered, but you can report to the debate, Mr. Secretary. In the fourth chapter, point 1.1, we have tabled an amendment from the SDS Group and an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Government. Would you like a word now, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. I will take advantage of this moment because it has been said several times that there must be an absolute priority in the construction of the highway network. I mean, I think, I'm sure that this absolute priority for this program is also given to the highway section. Several times it has been stressed and several times already given to the Infrastructure Committee that a national programme for the remaining State road network should be drawn up in accordance with the Public Road Act. In doing so, I must say that we are working hard on this. We have submitted the basics or drafts to the Committee at the beginning of the year or at the end of the previous year. We have an expert basis, but it is a major problem to finance this programme, which I understand after this debate, so that it will still have to be substantially extended from the list that we have set out in this first draft. As for tolls and switching to electronic tolling, it has been repeatedly evident that we do not have this processed in this material. I think it's clearly highlighted what the objective is and where tolling is going. [[I think this is explained on page 73.]] . In view of the last discussion where the words used were that it was a professional baby to touring - if I understood correctly, if I did not, I apologize - I think a mistake had been made for this professional ingenuity many years ago, and that in this house, not in this mandate, but in just two, three mandates ago. Unfortunately, then, a decision has been taken that has caused what we have today, and which makes it even more urgent, I admit, to reach a fairer system of tolling. With the government's amendment to the amendment to the committee, we tried to return what we had with the material itself, with the proposal of the national programme already made by the end of July last year. And that's what we did with the amendment to the committee's amendment. And I am sure that there are valid reasons for this, of course, that some of these sections are urgently resolved, especially in Primorskie, and that some of the additional sections in this additional programme are also to be tolled. This is exactly the difference in this amendment, which was made today on the table, is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. As a representative of the government, I am particularly reminding you of the following problems. Exclusively state roads as connecting roads to the motorway system, which will be regulated in the national programme of state roads and which are in line with the mandate of the parent committee, we are preparing this work. Unlike all other sections, I reiterate that the basic programme contains sections proposed by this amendment that do not have a defined length or estimated investment value. But you're putting them with this amendment into that part of the program that we call the basic program. So it actually destroys our complete system and it is not possible, it is simply not possible to close such a national programme. The adoption of these amendments would also constitute a discrepancy with the financial flows and financial resources envisaged in the motion for a resolution for a basic programme, as I said earlier. Moreover, the possible adoption of this amendment would mean a fall in the financial structure of the entire draft resolution of the national programme. I therefore propose that you accept the amendment tabled by the Government, but that you do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u268	Thank you very much. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The national programme, the programme's balance, regardless of the name of the resolution, is necessary. And he's not the first. There's already been a few. Why were these national programmes created from a period of necessary change? Because with Darsa’s annual work plan, import, import, bypass road came about in such a different way and so we collapsed at the very beginning of the basic concept and also destroyed the financial concept. All these credits will have to be repaid through the toll collected. That is why the philosophy of this national programme for my concept is also irresponsible, whether we do not understand it in our own way. I don't understand it any more if we are moving some projects on state roads now in 2013, 2016. That's unacceptable. And the argument that this additional Dars program will be able to prepare the location plans is funny, funny for a serious man with a little farm logic. These plans can also work, they have to work in a directorate, on a network of state roads. The fact is that it is high time for the annual quota, the budget quota for maintenance, renewal and reconstruction of state roads from year to year, and this is unsustainable. It's not just Koroška, my dear. You have a tight black hole. But this whole Koroška thing is falling into Dolenjska, which is a corkscrew. And if we just take what one downriver means for all the transits that now meet down to the Middle East, including Revoz. The Idrian pool is also a black hole. There we managed through reconstruction so that two cars could meet, a truck that couldn't meet before. But that's a long way from the fast road. The second is, if it's on this fast road that you're currently building with this amendment, picking up the tolls, then it's still somehow understood. But through such ridiculousness, which formerly was addressed to planners by colleague Orzmova, but this is not silly, it is the exploitation of the environment that was first built through Dars' program of four-pass entrance to Ljubljana and for them it is still better to enter the highway, which we built again from this program, but they would not pay for it. That's perfectly clear. Why would we go to Trzin if we could jump down here for free? This program won't hold, and this program will also be followed by a rebalancing. Piva Gorica, too. No, he has to get a performance fund in the state roads network first. This is a ministry policy that must be pursued. Not Dars. I don't feel comfortable walking around a big city one day, but virtually every construction site is wearing Darsa's board. And that's not normal, people, for Dars' program and for this national programme that we're now adopting. To leave some time to move forward, I don't think it's fair, and it's not responsible and economical for one amendment to be accepted. And I won't support any of them. Then at least I have some hope that this road cross will run out, at least somehow trusting in this dynamic that the planners, the drafters of this resolution, are now setting up. Otherwise, two years from now, we'll be fixing it again. However, all matters around the network of state roads can be prepared, locational. It is high time, however, that a national programme of maintenance, renewal and reconstruction of public roads networks be submitted to Parliament within a year. As for new sources, however, "landstrasse" is much harder to obtain from everywhere than on the highway program because the resources are provided in advance for maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u270	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. Somehow, I imagine that tomorrow, the Korean media will report, Members from Koroška have been able to defend the Korean highway. However, they will probably not say that LDS Members and ruling coalitions have removed the same highway from the programme ten days ago, and that they have also voted in favour of it, while opposition has opposed it. So it seems to me that this is a form of a very perfidious game, and all this patheticness that you've expressed here today would be unnecessary if you didn't act the way you did on the infrastructure committee. I even requested a recess before the vote, but the chairman did not allow me to do so. To invite representatives of the Ministry of Transport to provide funds, yes, please! You're the biggest part of the government. With government finances, LDS operates, not the Ministry of Transport. It's even worse to call for concession building. You've done nothing in this area. You have it in your coalition contract that you will adopt the relevant legislation. We don't have it until today. And to conclude. And this amendment that was tabled by my colleague Diaca. Mr. Anderlich, I don't think you meant it when you said you were going to make a difference in bringing things to absurdity. We have enough absurdities in this country. We don't need them anymore. Don't do that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u272	Thank you, colleague Sok. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u273	Thank you very much. As I look at this debate today, I have been born with the feeling that all these Members are before the elections, and all of a sudden everyone is debating. And it's actually nice that you activated yourself, but I think it's too late. This benevolent acceptance of everything the government has put on the table so far has its consequences. When I heard here about the fact that it would be good to include the Carinthian Liaison Road, how should I call it, it is actually strange that only now did the government and Members react after strong public reactions. See, if this road were not already justified for economic and demographic reasons, it would have been justified long ago for political reasons. I am surprised that the government does not have enough political instinct to link Slovenian Koroška to central Slovenia, at least in the programmes, even if you would bluff and bluff indefinitely to do so. But how can the Croat Slovenes cross the border that they now say will be no more, show that they are part of a single ethnic space and a single body, when the government, government parties have forgotten that this exists in Slovenia? It is typical and typical in this country that only LDS Members have forgotten about people there. And Koroška is a typical example of this. Where there is no opposition, there is no concern for citizens, and even in the case of Koroška it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u274	My friend Janc has the floor. You wanted a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I made a mistake. My friend Tanko, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. First of all, maybe two more words about this, I think it's very unfair for this particular case to be criticized and spilled manure only by the Ministry of Transport and Dars. The government is the key. If you're already watering the manure, remember, you can't smell it on the vials either. This amendment, which our party has tabled, has allowed the government to table its amendment to this part and then open this debate and these options for this part and then for the coordination of the future. The fact is, as I have already mentioned, that the main problem stems from the fact that there is no synchronous or logistical construction of the motorway network and the construction of emergency main road connections on this motorway network. Somewhere we were able to afford, I don't know, an update of 20-, 30-kilometre parallel roads, on the second part we couldn't even build a parstometer connection that would connect the whole region in this area. This part, which I am talking about, is a pond-kočevsky part, has a narrow throat in the Škofljica and Lavrica area with a very large daily LDP, with very large spikes, with very large physical obstacles, semaphorised intersections, railway prisons, with three schools, with a variety of local connections, with kindergartens and so on. There is an extremely limited gap in this work and it is necessary to know that in these two, three kilometres, as far as the highway is open, sometimes much more time is spent than from Kočevje to Ljubljana. In addition, there will be construction or construction of supply reserves for oil derivatives in Ribnica, which will further burden this part of the road mainly with freight traffic, since it is necessary to know that the railway that is supposed to serve here is essentially a blind intestine, a blind track, or an industrial track. It is also one of the shortest and most important links to Croatian motorways, to the sea; especially in summer time, this is an extremely burdensome matter. I would also like to say that this unbalanced programme, which we have heard so much about today mainly by the ruling representatives, has been greatly contributed by those who today have focused on these greatest criticisms. I think that banalisation is in such procedures, in such a serious programme that it is stated that there will be an additional EUR 10 billion for this programme and that we will do everything we can to break it, and then we will repair it in two months, I think it is extremely, extremely unrealistic. I think that all those who are in the government, both the bearer ministry and the largest government party, have every opportunity to ensure that the State Roads programme comes to the National Assembly for two or three months. And there is no need for such uncoordinated, unsynchronised proposals, and I can say, even aboriginal proposals to try to resolve what it is, I must say, a quality preparation for the debate in the National Assembly. With regard to the amendment of young people, or what has arisen under the bottling of one of the MPs of the ruling coalition, I would like to say this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u276	This is another amendment, Comrade Tanko, because I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u277	That's all I want to say. Part of what is proposed is already contained in the 2004 and 2005 budget development programmes plan for the five-year period. However, I do not think there is any need for additional sections to be introduced here, which have 200 or 300 daily vehicles. If we give one corridor that is 85 kilometers long, there are 20 kilometers of sections where this daily traffic is virtually gone and the road is superior to that part and that load. Even on this side, these things, I'd say, are extremely irresponsible. And one thing is, the fact is we can't talk about the success story at the same time and criticise the government. Speaking at the same time about, I don't know what results and indicators, but on the other hand, criticizing these black holes. The mandate was to get rid of this to cut those spikes. It's not done. But it's gonna have to be done. This term of office is no longer likely to be granted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u278	This concludes the debate on this fourth chapter, point 1.1. Let's go to chapter four, point 3.2. I am putting this chapter and the amended amendment of the SMS Group to the debate. Please, my friend Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. This amendment is a reflection of the state, that's a fact. In addition to the things I proposed in the basic package, the amendment also contains others [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] from all customers. [[...]] If we don't get to the National Road Programme once, I think we'll come this way. We do not break any highway program with this, because it is very easy to resolve the matter with the harmonisation amendment, if only will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u280	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u281	Although the amendment is fine, it just needs a few more filters. Something's come up, buddy Diaci. The Brezovica expressway, the highway, has fallen out, for example, at least Unec highway, so that the stopper could be saved there, which blocks every vineyard and wagon, when it meets there and rushes to the highway. It wouldn't be too bad if, I don't know, an Idrian pool behind this potential for economic development just got a little bit involved, but I'm a little ironic. Ironically, all this work, as I said earlier, is that we are preparing a highway program to upgrade as we have been building it for many years and we are where we are. And we'll wait for the road cross to be opened, not after this program, but we'll extend it. That's why, of course, I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u282	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I agree, motioner, that all that you've written down here is necessary. I very much like that you also proposed a two-band section of Ormož-Ljutomer-Lendava. Now that we're the Ormozans in the pomur region, it looks like we could use that. But I still think that if we include this in this national programme today and in the way that my colleague Anderlič said, with some absurdity, we will destroy what the Ministry has been trying to do and the government has proposed and, of course, this programme has also cost a great deal, because an economic institution has been involved in this, which has not done all this for free, in order to break this national resolution of the road programme now, but it is, of course, unacceptable. I think that in a way is actually a mockery of our citizens and citizens. This is not acceptable for us, as the people's beloved representatives, to afford something like this and in this way to break the entire national programme for which we have, I do not know how many times we have persisted and warned the ministry to prepare it. Now that they've prepared it, they'd be outplaying what's in front of us about such moves. I don't think we can really support this. I agree, however, that all that you have presented is necessary and will have to become part of another programme, which will cover all the other roads in the Republic of Slovenia, which need to be either repaired or also rebuilt.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u284	Good. I am closing the debate on this and I am going through it. Procedural! It's just procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u285	Thank you. It's rude to tell anyone that he's led the matter to absurdity. I am the first term in this National Assembly, and what I see happening, and now to make it clear that this amendment is the collapse of the highway programme, is extremely rude. I'll do the following. I'm withdrawing the supplement, keeping the basic amendment under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u286	Good. We took this statement for granted. Let's get to it first. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u287	Not to be misunderstood by my colleague Diaca, I didn't tell you. Ambassador Anderlič said that he would, I'll tell you what it's like to contribute to the fact that the matter will be brought to absurdity, so, he's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u288	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u289	You didn't say that. I'm sorry. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u290	I haven't closed the debate yet. In the debate due to a statement by my colleague Diacija, according to his statement, the amendment is withdrawn and the basic amendment tabled by the two-band subsection Dramalje-Sentjur remains true? Okay. Anyone else want a word? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u291	When this amendment is withdrawn, however, this absurdity is somewhat smaller, but we have not come up with this term, but we can quote it from a discussion by colleague Anderlich. That's what I'm trying to say. The fact is that this is the best national programme that this national assembly has received in this mandate. This is certainly the best equipped, best distributed by source, by all categories. I think it would be extremely inappropriate for just the best program this national council has ever received to do anything to tear it down and tear it down. I think that's extremely unfair. We are faced with much worse documents, important or difficult in terms of just as this national programme will be, and everything is done to get these things through the procedure in some way or another, "with force or with soap". I mean, that's an unfair thing to do. And the unfair thing is that you're doing it to the government among yourselves. This is a tragedy that's even more tragic in this case. If what you said was said by the opposition, I'd still understand in this electoral time. But if someone says that, which is in the government's side, who has to support his prime minister, who brought this program in, signed it, then I think that's really absurd.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u292	Please understand each other. We are now discussing the basic text of the amendment that has been tabled. This is no longer a general debate. Please, yes. [[...]] My friend Brenčič and colleague Rokavec. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u293	Peace in the hall. Thank you very much. I am the second term in this Parliament, and also in the first term, as was possible, I have been active in the Infrastructure Committee. And some things are a little bit clear to me, and I am also aware of the progress and implementation of the national programme of Darsa. And that is why I am not a member of any clan, because in this case I also oppose the proposal of the Ministry, which enters into such an approach, which has been misused so many times in the implementation of the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u294	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u295	Just to make up for what my colleague Brenčič has already said. The SDS amendment also creates the credibility of the motorway programme. We leave to the highway programme only what must truly be a highway programme, but let us entrust the government with a comprehensive solution to the state road construction programme as soon as possible, of course, as a matter of priority. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u296	I am now really closing the debate on this issue. We're moving on to the next one. On the fourth chapter, item 3.2, time period 2, phase B. I am putting this issue and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to the debate. There's no debate. Then I conclude it. We're going to Table 9. Here the SDS Group has tabled an amendment. There's no debate. I'm concluding. Finally, to Table 10B and the SDS amendment thereto. There's no debate either. Okay. Then I'll close the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, and very soon. I interrupt the session until 21.25 and invite you to continue the meeting at 9.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u297	Once again, I politely ask you all to take your seats. Can the National Assembly ask for silence? Colleagues and colleagues, I'll wait for everyone to join us. Please take your seats in the hall. Can I have the National Assembly's attention for a moment? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, the international community has heard very sad news about the tragic death of Macedonian President Boris Trajkovski. On our common behalf, I have today sent our sincere condolences and condolences to the President of the Macedonian Parliament for his family and all the Macedonian people. President Trajkovski has sought peace, has sought progress in Macedonia and has been an honest friend of our country. I ask the National Assembly, with a minute of silence, to express its condolences and a gift at the time of the death of the statesman. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. First of all, we are the 11th item - in the end of the debate, the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. We are holding a debate and decision on this bill following a reduced procedure. We are in second reading and we have tabled amendments to certain articles. We are at Article 3, when we vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number two and three shall become irrelevant. The amendment is substantively linked to amendment number one to Article 4. If he's not accepted, he'll become irrelevant. Let's decide, please, if you check your voting devices Is everything okay? [[Yeah.]] We will then first decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 3. We're voting. Yeah, you warned me early enough, but I warned you early enough. I will, of course, put to the vote because you have warned us of this before the vote expires, but I have previously asked kindly if you can verify the functioning of your voting devices. I will once again put forward a motion for an amendment to the SNS Group. We're voting. 70 present, 3rd and 56th. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 56.]] The amendment has not been accepted. In this case, amendments 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Excuse me. The first amendment to Article 4 has become irrelevant. Excuse me. We are now in the vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 3. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. This amendment is in substance linked to Amendment No 2 to Article 4. If not adopted, the number 2 to 4 shall become irrelevant. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. 70 in attendance, 7 in and 50 in. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 50.]] Not accepted. The second amendment to Article 4 is irrelevant. We are in the decision-making process of the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the ZLSD Group of Members to Article 3. This is related to the amendment referred to in Article 3(4). If not adopted, amendment No. 3 to Article 4 becomes irrelevant. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 70 present. 53 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the 4th. We have three amendments tabled. The first two became irrelevant with the previous decision. The amendment of the LDS Club and the ZLS Group of Members is subject to review. This is an amendment under order number three. We're making a decision. 69 in attendance, 51 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. The ZLSD Group shall submit an amendment to Article 6. We decide on the amendment of the ZLSD Group to Article 6. 62 present, 23 for and 30 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. This is how we have done the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We're in third reading. I take it that the assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 3 and 4. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? [[No, no, ……]] Then the National Assembly will first find that there is no uncoordinatedness, at least I do not have such a notice from the legislature or the government. That way, we can move on to the decision-making of the law. We're voting on the law. 70 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We are at the 12th item of the agenda, dealing with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. This treatment is carried out by a reduced procedure. We're in second gear. We will decide on the amendments tabled. First of all, we will move ahead with Article 6 where we have two amendments, namely the NSI and SLS sent groups. We will first decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Can we make a decision? Please. 67 present, 13 for and 53 against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. On the amendment of the SLS Group, I would like to point out that it has been corrected, and we are voting on the revised amendment of the Group of Members. We're making a decision. 70 present, 54 for and 10 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. These corrections warnings also apply to the amendments that we will now decide on. We have two to eight articles, both submitted by the SLS Group. We will first decide on the first amendment to Article 8. We're making a decision. 70 in attendance, 33 in and 30 in. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are going to the amendment under order number 2, to the second amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 8. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 37 in and 11 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The same Group of Members shall also table an amendment to Article 9. We're making a decision. 67 present, 46 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We're in third reading. We have adopted amendments to Articles 6, 8 and 9. Would qualified applicants like to submit an amendment to this Article? I don't have that kind of information. Then will the State Assembly hold a third hearing in the context of the reduced procedure Please? [[...]] A colleague of Maynik's? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u298	We're predicting an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u299	Which article is my colleague Majnik's?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u300	I announce the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u301	Thank you. I'm gonna break this point. Tomorrow we will continue after the end of the agenda. We're at the 16th item of the agenda. Point 14 first, I'm sorry. This is the third consideration of the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We have two amendments to Article 1. The first is by the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. If this amendment is adopted, the next amendment of the SNS Group becomes irrelevant. I ask for peace in the hall because all my colleagues and colleagues do not hear the procedural warnings I give. Please. Once again, if this amendment is adopted, the next amendment becomes irrelevant. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. In view of the discussions that we have had in the previous session, we find that it is prudent to accept this amendment either ours or the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which has tabled an identical one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u303	I've had a hard time hearing you, and I believe most of the others have. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, Comrade Kebrich, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. Respectable. We have already said in the debate that the first amendment is impeccable because it only speaks of the capital of Slovenia. The second amendment specifies that this is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u305	Peace. Can I interrupt you for a moment, Comrade Kebrich?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u306	Since Slovenia is a country, Slovenia is a republic and Slovenia itself could be treated only as a region. [[...]] So please support the second amendment, not the first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u307	Can I please have peace in the hall? The National Assembly will now move to a decision on the amendment of the SMS Group to Article 1 of the bill on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We're making a decision. 66 in attendance, 13 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We can now also decide on the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. My friend Run. Peace in the hall, please! You don't have a word yet, Comrade Potch. Comrade Jerovšek, neither do you. I beg for peace in the hall, and now please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u308	Thank you very much. During the drafting of the law, we have adapted the content of Article 1 by making it clear from the law that the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide for any body or organization to be in Slovenia. Anyone who can't read this doesn't speak Slovenian. And please, please, we can decide to accept the amendment, just not with the argument of determining which organ will or will not be in the capital. This is provided for by other laws. Anyone who claims otherwise does not speak the truth, so I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u309	Look, it's hard for me here to hear everything you say because of the noise. I believe there's someone else. Please, at least where the speaker is speaking, don't knock. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u310	After the debate that was held on the law on the capital today, it seems that only one capital in Slovenia would be acceptable, one that could be placed at the geographic centre of Slovenia, because it would not be controversial and create any jealousy and, of course, would be confusing to anyone else. Of course, I will vote against this amendment also because it was justified by the assumption that if we say what is already in the constitution, it is said that the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is Ljubljana, this is to help decentralise the Republic of Slovenia or its development. This concept of thinking assumes that the applicants believe that if, for example, the seat of the government in Nova Gorica, if Banka Slovenije was established in Maribor, or the seat of the National Assembly in Kočev, or the Constitutional Court in Celje, or any diplomatic representation anywhere else, and this could be anywhere else, as provided by law, then we could face decentralisation. Decentralisation does not mean the dispersion of institutions, but rather the dispersion of decision-making powers, and to what extent residents of a given area may decide on their interests. Of course, decentralisation is established through jurisdiction, not through the headquarters of the institutions of certain centres, so this amendment is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u311	He's got a word for it. Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u312	Thank you. I'll do my best if you calm down in the framework of Liberal Democracy for a moment. I believe that your concentration is falling. I believe that your ability to think clearly at this point is falling. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u313	Peace in the hall. Peace in the hall, or I'll interrupt the meeting, I'll tell you. Please! Is there peace in the hall?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u314	It would make sense for you to accept the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which, hand in hand, is almost identical with the amendment of the Youth Party. It is true, however, that it bears the essential change that Mr Kebrich has pointed out. It would be right to start with a constitutional provision around such an important law as the Main City Act, which we must take along with the strategy of equal or equitable development of our country. The constitutional provision or content, as proposed in Article 1 of the said Act, is not disputed by the further content of this Act, so there is no way that the theory of a speaker can be held before me. I also assess that it would make sense that Article 1 is clear and that Article 1 clearly indicates what is desired and what is the task of the Act. The existing Article 1 is, indeed, a hand-to-heart better than it was in the first phase, causing unnecessary confusion at this point in our assessment. It would, of course, be more appropriate for you to accept the amendment, which is derived from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u315	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. 68 in attendance, 24 in and 33 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment has not been accepted. That is how we ended up voting on both amendments. The legislature and the government have not warned me that the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. That way we can move on to making a full decision about him. We're voting. We are voting on the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. The law has been passed. 70 present, 57 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] This concludes the agenda item. We are moving on to the 16th item of the agenda, the last item of today - to consider the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We vote on the Government's amendment to the SDS Group's amendment to Chapter 4, point 1.1. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 52 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 4, point 1.1. Peace in the hall! Please, is something wrong? The government is warning me that you can get closer, please. [[...]] We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 4, point 1.1. We're voting. 69 present, 48 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the SMS Group to Chapter 4, point 3.2. We're voting. Excuse me. Before voting, he would like to explain his vote to his colleague Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u316	Thank you for your word. I suggest we support this amendment. It's a link between the sub-region and the highway cross. We've talked about this a lot today, so I'm done. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u317	My friend Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u318	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a pity that the national programme for the construction of motorways, together with the national programme for the construction and reconstruction of state roads, is not a great shame, since today the dilemma would be much less. However, the explanation why these two amendments, which we have tabled with Mr Diacia, and they are completely identical, is not true. The Government's explanation is inconclusive, since the number of vehicles carried out on 12 September 2002 in the direction of Dramalje-Sentjur is that there were 12815 vehicles at the time from 5 p.m. to 21 p.m. and around 22,000 vehicles went through Šentjur, east-west, or exactly 21853. The quality of life in Šentjur is very low, as there is a primary school along the road, a music school, two kindergartens and a library. The local community has committed itself to produce an idea study and an assessment, then a place to arrange for the purchase of land and, of course, to order project documentation. Until this project sees the light of the world in the state budget, it does not burden the state budget for so long, but it would mean a lot for the Cossack area and the area against the border against Rogatec and Posavje. This quality of life, however, was primarily caused by the highway. That's why I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u319	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. Mr Tanko said that today, if we support that amendment that has already been adopted, we will accept the best document we have ever adopted in the National Assembly. I agree with that. He must have made it a great pleasure for some more in this national assembly, but I think we would have made this joy, and it would be appropriate to support this amendment by Mr Diaction. At the same time, I thank him for withdrawing the part that has disturbed you so much, and it has been corrected to many areas in Slovenia and to many who are not found anywhere and in no program. I will support him entirely because he has actually tackled this national programme not only from his own problem but also from its breadth. Sadly, however, he withdrew it because he saw that there was too much opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u321	Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I think that everyone sober in this national council should be set on another exit from the highway to the regional road and another entrance from the regional to the highway. However, we could be sure of where the four - lane entrances are really needed and exit. But these aren't Dramatics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u323	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 present, 38 for and 25 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are in chapter 4, point 3.2, time period 2, phase B. We decide. 69 present, 27 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are at table 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. 61 present, 20 for and 33 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The same parliamentary group is also proposing an amendment to Table 10.b. We're voting. 62 present, 18 for and 37 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Because of the amendment adopted, I suppose the text is inconsistent. A representative of the government, perhaps? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u324	The text is uncoordinated. Since this is an integral part of the basic programme, a harmonisation amendment should be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u325	In addition to the four who are ready, Minister? [[Yeah.]] All right, please prepare a harmonisation amendment by tomorrow, and we will then vote on the resolution in full or on the harmonisation amendments in accordance with the last item of the agenda. But for today, we're done. Thank you so much for your cooperation and have a nice evening on! We will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. and we will conclude the meeting in the course of tomorrow.
