ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day! We begin the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Michael Brejc, Ivan Kebrič, Janez Kramberger, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Dušan Vukko from 2 p.m. and Miran Jerič. Between us, I welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We're moving to 28. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, IRELAND, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE GREAT GOVERNMENT OF LUXEMBOURG, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY FOR ATOMIC ENERGY AND THE INTERNATIONAL AGENCY AGENCY AGENERAL ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE III 1) AND (4) OF THE TRADEWIDE ON THE NON-WIDE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Since no amendments have been adopted, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading and to the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I'm asking you nicely to check the voting devices. I invite ambassadors and ambassadors to the hall. Today we will need a little more attention, and we will vote on all proposals for laws across the board. Secondly, we will vote on the bill. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There was enough of us in the Chamber, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the bill in 10 minutes, which is 10.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u2	Your Honor! This is the third time we will vote on the bill. I'm asking you to check your voting devices! We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 29. On behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Sweden, the European Community for the Atonian Energy and the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Republic of Hungary, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, the European Community for the Atonian Energy and the International Atomic Energy Agency. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted in the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Defence Bill on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Status of the International Military Charter established in accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted in the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving on to the third hearing, that's the decision on the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 31. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a law on ratification and agreement on the protection of the confidentiality of inventions relating to defence and for which patent applications have been submitted. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, which was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted in the second reading. There is no debate on articles and amendments. We can go to the third hearing, that's the decision on the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. At the end of the day, a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Contracting Parties of the North Atlantic Treaty on the Status of Their Forces. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted in the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving on to the third hearing, to deciding on the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 50 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ON COOPERATION IN THE AREA OF POOR TRANSPORT. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The Committee on Foreign Policy informed the assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Since no amendments have been adopted, there is no debate. We're moving on to the third hearing, to deciding on the law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. Mr Tribal, you wish to speak as rapporteur of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Committee on Foreign Policy, as a working mother, discussed the proposed bill and adopted all the articles of the bill after the discussion and no amendments were adopted to the proposal. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted. The law makes sense, the law fills a gap that has so far yawned mainly in the transfer of data security from one Member State to another of the North Atlantic Treaty. And I think it also identifies some of the things that are still being omitted in our legislation. That is why we, as a mother labourer, have decided to support this proposal for a law on ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much. As no amendment has been adopted by the labour force, there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving on to the third hearing, to deciding on the law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 52 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 36. Period of the Day - Defence Bill on Ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. He was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposal for a law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism is essentially finalising those starting points of the international community in preventing and combating payments and financing and in supporting terrorism, which both European and other countries have been considering and fighting for a long time. About a year ago, I was present at Garmisch-Partenkirchn in George C. Marshall Center, where we addressed this issue and elaborated it in detail. In short, the fact is that it is time for us to sign this or ratify this international convention. Nevertheless, I believe that in the Republic of Slovenia, within the Republic of Slovenia, we essentially place little emphasis on financing terrorist organisations and in many ways open doors, small doors, for the arrival of certain terrorist groups, groups, groups and movements. We are looking at the entry of certain groups into Slovenia, as well as the National Assembly of Work in this area, with great error. However, as far as ratification is concerned, the Committee of the National Assembly has adopted all the articles of the proposed law, and no amendments have been adopted here, and therefore the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be considered in the proposed text and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Since the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 37. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the NATO Agreement on the Communication of Technical Information for Defence Purposes. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The Committee on Foreign Policy informed the assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Since the mother's working body has not accepted the second reading of the amendments, there is no discussion. We're moving on to the third hearing, that's the decision on the law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 38. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Amended Convention on the Establishment of a European Organisation for Satellite Telecommunications (EUTELSAT) The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, which was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third hearing, to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 39. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Status of Missions and Representatives of Third Countries in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Since no amendments have been adopted, we are moving on to the third reading to decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Status of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, National Representatives and the International Person. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. Since no amendments have been adopted, there is no debate. We are moving on to the third reading, this is just a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 45 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 41. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION ON THE ACCORDANCE OF THE LAW TO BE APPLICABLE, RECOGNITION, APPLICATION AND COOPERATION WITH REGARD TO THE STARS' RESPONSIBILITY AND MEASURES FOR THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on jurisdiction, the law applicable, the recognition, enforcement and cooperation on parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, the Committee adopted, at the end of the discussion, all the articles of the draft law and no amendments were adopted to the law. However, an editorial comment was made, namely that there was a mistake in the title of the bill. In fact, it's one cap that's too much. It needs to be corrected, namely the proposal for a law ratifying the Convention on Competence [[Hexagon]] , the law applicable - it is said that you have no comma for the word "right", otherwise there is a misunderstanding. This comment was adopted by the Committee, but the report of the Committee of the National Foreign Policy Assembly also failed to take account of the same error. This needs to be corrected editorially. Otherwise, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted, of course, by this editorial correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Since the mother's working body, therefore, did not accept any amendments, there is no debate. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 42. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE BAsselS CLONVEMENT ON THE CONTROL OF THE TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS EXPENDITURES BETWEEN THE BETWEEN AND THEIR DISTRIBUTION, TO BE DELIVERED AT THE THIRD MEETING OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES 22. SEPTEMBER 1995 IN GENEVA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal and informed the assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted on the Committee, so there is no debate. We're moving on to the third hearing, that's the decision on the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 43. On the basis of Article K.3 (2) (C) of the Treaty on European Union, on the fight against corruption of officials in the European Community or officials of the Member States of the European Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The Committee on Foreign Policy considered it and informed the assembly in writing. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were accepted. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 44. Agenda item - Defence Bill on Ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Children's Rights with regard to Children's Participation in Armed Conflicts. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration to the assembly, and the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly discussed it in writing. No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body, there was no discussion. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 45. Agenda item - On the defence of the bill on the ratification of the optional protocol to the Convention on Children's Rights, it sells children, child prostitution and child pornography. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration, discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and written reports to the assembly. There are no amendments accepted, so I apologize, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by mag. Marko Diaci, I missed you because I looked at the bench and you weren't there. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Let me just say that Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the bill, but we cannot pass the law without saying a few words. In other words, they would be naive to think that Slovenia is an isolated island, which trafficking in human beings, child prostitution and child pornography do not apply and that this does not exist in Slovenia. In Slovenia, from year to year, more traffickers are discovered and their victims are generally younger. Last year, the NGO Key prepared a report on trafficking in human beings, which proved that human trafficking also existed in Slovenia and that Slovenia is also the country of origin from which children are sold. According to this report, in 2002, the organised crime sector in the general police administration is expected to address five victims of child trafficking. All five were underage girls who were sold abroad for sexual exploitation. However, Slovenia is still primarily a transit country, as many children travel to Western countries where they are subject to a variety of uses. Although data for previous years differ in various reports, it is certain that very many illegal refugees, children without adult escorts, will arrive in Slovenia. In 2001, the asylum sector in the Ministry of Internal Affairs recorded 113 unaccompanied minors who were placed in asylum. A child who was part of a group of migrants came with adults. But he went on a journey with a different purpose than the others. Adults left to find a better life, and this one was meant for something else. It should therefore be regarded as a potential victim. Unlike other transition countries, Slovenia has maintained a relatively stable economy; in Slovenia, most young people have the possibility of education and employment; therefore, it is difficult to recognise the existence of trafficking in human beings, child prostitution and pornography. However, we must be aware that Slovenia is not immune in this regard. The ongoing affairs of Western countries, Belgium, England, France, the latest example of Austria, show that countries that are among the most developed and the largest advocates and protectors of children are also facing the problem of growing child prostitution and pornography. With technological developments and the emergence of the Internet, a new market has been opened for child prostitution and pornography traders, which is increasing year after year and is no longer limited to national borders, and so the demand for this material is increasing accordingly and the need to exploit children. We must be aware that children and their rights, and especially their protection of the adult domain, are. As I said at the outset, the SMS agrees with the proposal of the law on ratification of the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography as a whole, but we believe that poorer and underdeveloped States Parties should be offered for curative treatment - but I have a preventive method of identification - and it should be incorporated into that protocol. We could also introduce a test instrument to detect pathological crimes in relation to this issue with a view to mass awareness of the entire population. In our SMS, we believe that an integrated approach to the issue and the need for transparency in implementing the provisions of this Protocol would be essential to take care of the policy of action and to start designing them at local, regional, national and international level. In our view, tripartite cooperation projects, some kind of co-consultation, should be established in relation to this issue, which address and implement measures from below, in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol. It is an institution at all of the above levels, between the social service, the police, and individual educational institutions or non-governmental organisations in a district or legal unit. This council would act as a permanent awareness-raising body, especially in the field of this type of problem, i.e. prevention. However, it is essential to include all actors, including the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Information Society, the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs, in order to raise awareness, cooperation, education and detection one by one, and to provide funding on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much. No amendments have been adopted by the mother labour body, so there is no debate, we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. The 46th item of the agenda - proposal for a law on the transformation of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for success into a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for succession - emergency procedure should be considered in order of this moment. Since the Committee on Foreign Policy, as the parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law this morning, there is not yet a report on the bench by the parent working body, so we will have to skip this point and as soon as the report is ready to continue its consideration of this item on the agenda. We're moving to EVAILABLE 47. Agenda items - Defence proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia of Dars, the Working Party, for the hire of credit at the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian Autoways VI - urgent procedure. I invite representatives of the government to this point. Of course, they couldn't have known we were going to skip point 46, so we're going to wait for a moment. Between us, I welcome Dr. Tomaž Vidica, Secretary of State of Transport. Would you like a word, please explain? No, no, no. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Branko Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you for your word. Very briefly. At its meeting, the Committee discussed the proposed agreement law for the European Investment Bank to rent a loan of 110 million tolars. In the light of the legislative and legal notice, he also drafted two of his amendments and adopted them, so that the text of the law is consistent. At the same time, it is worth noting that this bill for renting EUR 110 million for the construction of individual motorway sections was already adopted last year, namely last year we passed a bill of EUR 246 million for the construction of the same sections and, of course, we also warned the bill-maker that it was in principle four adopted laws. [[Consent Act and Guarantee Act]] for the same sections, which means that at the moment €110 million is more available than planned through the national highway construction programme. And that is also true when considering this law to be before your eyes. That's it. Of course, we propose that the National Assembly adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Alojz Sok will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, point 47 and point 52, I think we can deal with each other and I will give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group for both of us, because the first discusses consent and the second discusses guarantees, but this is the same thing. This is about allowing Darsa to charge EUR 110 million, which is just over 25 billion Slovenian tolars. It is interesting to note that we accept this at the last meeting, namely, several such laws that will give us the consent of the State, the guarantee of the State, and, of course, what the State guarantees, we do not consider to be Slovenian public debt, and thus the Prime Minister may say that Slovenia is significantly less indebted than it is in fact, because, at the final stage as a Member and as a Member Group, we are confident that the funds for which the State guarantees are to be considered as railways, roads, most likely to have to be returned and paid from the state budget. On the other hand, in our parliamentary group we have been warning all the time that Slovenia is building too slow highways, that these motorways are too expensive and that this story of the highway program is, in fact, recognized for at least thirty years. In 1993, it was planned to build a 318 - mile [318 km] highway, and then this continued to increase. By 1995, the National Assembly had already adopted 499 kilometers, with an initial increase of over one billion dollars to 2.2 billion. In 1998, when the second national programme rebalancing was adopted, the number of motorways increased to 518 kilometres and 35 kilometres of other roads, and the estimated value of the programme increased to $4.1 billion. The last balance that we have adopted recently, which extends the construction deadline until 2013, is, of course, talking about the cost of the highway programme being 5.4 billion euros. Before the construction began, it was somehow envisaged that after a mile of highway we would pay about $6 million. Today, of course, it is known that the motorway programme, which was built in 1994-2002, has significantly exceeded, almost once, this estimated value or km of highway initially is built for some more than $10 million. At the same time, a large part of the Slovenian motorway programme remains a big question. We can all see that our roads are very dangerous. It is this week that we have passed the Road Traffic Safety Act, with which somehow the government and the ruling coalition and all those who voted in favour of this law are trying to replace those objective circumstances that rule in Slovenian traffic. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that this cannot be done in this way. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that there will be an urgent need to do something in the field of tolling. In fact, we have one of the highest tolls in Europe. It's kind of embarrassing, and it's not worth some serious country, that in different traffic corners, people can sometimes stand on highways for hours and then drive to the terminal and charge them toll. I don't know how we can apologize to the general public. I have once proposed to the representatives of the Ministry, the Slovenian Government, that we consider and perhaps put an end to this nonsense in these parts. On the other hand, we have repeatedly discussed the need for the government in this area to consider a different way. Once again, in our Members' Group, New Slovenia, we advocate a system of tolling through vineyards, just as they know it in neighbouring Austria. Let me get this straight. We will not oppose this law, nor will we vote for it. So it is possible to lead a country to commit yourself when you run out of funds, most of the time to foreign banks, and more and more to domestic banks. But it is clear that one day all of this will have to be paid, so we expect the government to start acting more cost-effectively. Above all, we are convinced that Darsa's audit should be carried out more thoroughly, because there are many comments to Dars' work in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you, for your word. The Law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to the DARS, a shareholder company, to rent credit to the European Investment Bank for the Slovenian Motorways project is certainly one of those measures provided for in the resolution on the national programme for the financing of motorway sections and since the motorway network is also one of the key projects both for inclusion in the international road network and, in particular, for the inter-regional link between the country, we are of course of course of the opinion that the dynamics of the construction of motorways must not stop. The sections provided for in this law, which should also help to accelerate construction under this law - these are sections of Bič-Krastje, Hrastje-Kronovo, Peračič-Podtabor - so this is one of the most burdened sections, which must certainly be realized in accordance with the adopted resolution, in order to be able to accept, in due time and in due course, increasing traffic burdens, which are dictated by both the domestic importance of motorways and the international position of Slovenia in transport corridors. Of course, resources used to build motorways are so own resources that are somehow created with tolls and, of course, also with petrol tolls, and of course also with debt. According to the text in this Act, it is possible to draw funds under a credit agreement if it is in accordance with the DARS debt quota for each financial year and therefore we also consider that this law can be adopted, irrespective of the fact that certain laws for these sections have already been adopted in the context of the debt. However, the quota for drawing on funds must be in line with the DARS debt quota, and in particular we expect this to be respected. That is why we will support this law, in particular in order to ensure that the financing of the motorway network runs smoothly and that, of course, construction will also run smoothly during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u17	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-President, representatives of the Government. The proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to the DARS to rent a loan to the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways is, of course, an obligation of the national assembly that, according to the legal basis, I will of course say "blessing" or "not blessing" so decides whether this is possible or not. In doing so, of course, it is necessary to state the fact that, as of 1 January, the DARS ceased its status as a public undertaking and became a state-owned company. Targets are clear. Dars, on behalf of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and also on our behalf, wants progress in the area of the construction of the highway network, in general in the area of infrastructure acquisitions. And it is clear that in the Slovenian National Party we absolutely agree with such objectives and desires. When we look at the 26 billion-and-a-half debt, it seems to me that, of course, what does this mean for our decision and, in fact, what does this mean in view of the large number of decisions already taken by the National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, that I will not repeat the stories and objectives and principles envisaged by the proposal for a law, we would like to point out that, after our assessment or after the review of the data since 1994, some of the figures have been adopted in this National Assembly, I will say that no one will blame me, about 30 laws on consents and guarantees for hiring Dars' loans, which is, of course, a large number, if we are aware that such an agreement also means certain obligations. We also estimate in the Slovenian National Party that it is not entirely acceptable that Dars rents loans on behalf of the country, which, logically, means that loans, if necessary, will have to be paid by the State and that the earnings go elsewhere. In short, these are some things that, at least in the Slovenian National Party, are not clear and unacceptable to us. The decision in such cases is, of course, difficult. When we also reviewed the responsibility, when such responsibility arose, we found that in certain cases, which are also in this law, the law defined. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we are simply saying that we are not going to oppose the proposal for a bill of approval of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu for borrowing credit from a simple and simple objective of developing infrastructure in one way or another. However, I hope that the warning we have given will remain and that, on the basis of this, something will be done in this national assembly in the next reference. This was just what I said once again, I said earlier, that there was too much agreement for the loans that had been rented and it would not be fair for the state to pay what a privatised company could or would not be - I hope that it will - be able to pay back; of course, profits and revenues go elsewhere than they should on the other hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! Before we discussed the Dars Act, the Ministry of Transport promised us that the Members would be given both contracts to be concluded by the government with a new, reformed society, such as a special contract governing relations in the management of this work under consideration today, as well as a management and maintenance contract. It's been six months, we haven't received both contracts yet, so Members don't know how much costs or rewards the government has admitted to Darsa for doing both types of business, because that's a secret, probably not a very small one. The fulfilment of the promise made by a high official of the State is particularly important because the public and the opposition have been completely excluded from the information by a change in the composition of the Darsa Supervisory Board. A very important change in the property transformation of Dars has led to the fact that credits that are not leased through Dars on the basis of the State's consent and guarantee are no longer kept in the balance sheet. Since the coalition part of this National Assembly had adopted such a law on a proposal from the government, it allowed the Prime Minister to boast of Slovenia's extremely low or European comparable indebtedness, thereby excluding the largest individual State borrower from this scope. Certainly this trick has a mistake, because we're going to have to pay off this debt, whether or not it's on the government debt balance sheet. And even this beautiful intervention means the greatest real change in Dars' transformation. It is extremely difficult to agree to such large amounts of debt and guarantees, especially if we know that for a number of years in a row at least half of the petrol toll we contribute to roads when we buy fuel. It is clear that this debt, which replaces the earmarked funds, and that the repayment of these loans, irrespective of the reasonableness or the justified reasons, will be carried over unnecessarily to road users who are already paying off high-speed loans in one way or another. According to purchasing power and social standards, they are the highest in Europe. The tolls also include all errors and shortcomings in construction, although they are almost nowhere to be detected. The highway construction program takes place in a perfect operation. At the same time, it is also very serious to count on significant increases in traffic, particularly on the environmentally problematic freight transit. However, I must say that there is an unfavourable moment in adopting both laws from the package of this loan, indicating the absence of a serious project approach and planning. It is unacceptable for a serious planner to write in his explanation that if construction does not continue according to the timetable, there will be greater economic damage and difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. These consequences and this damage are mainly due to the untimely preparation of all types of documentation and, in particular, to poor time planning. Hunting the last few moments, which has been extremely large lately, is not a reflection of business seriousness and competence. Well, unfortunately it is. Another problem with these doubts is the poor audit report by the Court of Auditors, which casts a bad light on Darsa's work and on the management of a state-owned company by public and other means in the implementation of Slovenia's largest project during this period. I would just like to say that the opposition does not, with its work, cause and will not cause difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country. This, however, works regularly for the government, but we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u21	It seems as if the consent laws and guarantees for Darsa's credits for the construction of motorways are always adopted for the last minute, and by emergency procedure, as if we did not have a resolution on the construction of motorways, as if we did not have a law on public finances, as if we did not have annual development programmes, as if we had no site plans, construction permits and I don't know what else is in the chain and at the end, but in fact we are faced with a certain fact, take it or leave it. Otherwise, if you leave, you will be responsible for not building the roads. It's not okay! Last year, in the same period - I believe that in June or July - we also accepted a similar number of two laws, today again. There in that law we have said or written down, determined that Dars, the government can also issue bonds and that domestic capital can also participate in the construction of highways and it would be part of the interest staying at home, but not to spill into foreign banks It is easier to go to talks in London, to stay for one week twice a year, this credit should first be prepared, then to sign it, etc., and to come to the National Assembly and this here "burn" and move on. We will, of course, support this and the following law, but the thing is simply not well done that in this way you often come with the same things in the National Assembly, but at no point can the assembly do anything but support or not support. But not backing up means what I said before, taking responsibility that these things will not go as planned. It is irresponsible that the matter is practical before opening, one part of the sections, and of course we are now consenting to credits. What would happen if we didn't? What happened then: it would stop. So it would also make sense from a systemic point of view to check and see if this way of granting credit and financing is even meaningful. If we in the Act of the National Assembly have determined the amount of the means to build motorways, that in the annual or two-year budget implementation laws we have provided for a quota of guarantees, or those guarantees, that can be rented by the individual consumer of state resources, then it is entirely sufficient that, within the framework of the government and those who are in debt here, these things are regulated and that the State Assembly receives a report at a certain time. For the fact that the State will be in charge of these sections was clearly so in the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget for this year, since this is provided for there, it is provided for in the resolution on the construction of motorways, provided for in the annual programme, and we are now dealing with some details here with specific two laws. I think it's pretty pointless, and it also blurs the whole thing out, because here I think someone has already said that some 10 laws of this kind have been adopted, and now some credits have already fallen into repayment, some will start, some will probably go into the reprogram already, and it's pretty imprecise to say, so many roads we've done, so many tolls, so many credits, we have so much, I don't know, costs with these things. At this point, I'll bet the Secretary of State doesn't know how to say it in fourteen days, but that's another matter. So I say, the law, this and the next, will be supported, but it would make sense that these things are otherwise regulated by the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. And also the Slovenian People's Party Group, whose position will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u23	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I wish a good day to everyone together, given that this is the last regular meeting of this National Assembly in this mandate. We accept one of the laws where the National Assembly gives some kind of consent to the Republic of Slovenia or Darsu to rent a loan. However, in this National Assembly, we have already pronounced the letter A, so to speak, we have adopted a national programme where we have also adopted some kinds of commitments, we have also adopted an annual programme. And it is right that the National Assembly gives in this way and also has a view of which credits and what they are hired to build motorways. Here we Members of various parliamentary groups and from various areas have tabled amendments and requested them to be built here, to be built there, but it is the wish of all Slovenians that this highway cross or that the modernisation of all motorways and other roads, which is not the subject of this consent, be modernised as soon as possible, be implemented as soon as possible. Our parliamentary group will either support the law or not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. I'm informing you that I wasn't informed that there might be a conflict of law. I invite ambassadors and ambassadors to the hall. Vote explanation, Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u25	I want to explain my voice. I will, of course, support this marriage. The reasons for my support are based mainly on the explanation given by the State Secretary of State on the Infrastructure Committee. He confirmed the claim that it was about doubling the lease of credit and issuing consents and guarantees, but it was about hiring a loan with the European Investment Bank, which was supposed to be very convenient. For this reason, I will support this law. On the other hand, I still have doubts as to whether all things are under real control when borrowing credits and using the means to build highways. The considerations expressed here by Members regarding Dars' very role in the transformation of Dars are, in my view, justified and require additional supervision of the national assembly and the government over the use of funds. At this point, EUR 110 million of additional funds, with which the state has already issued a guarantee or 110 million more, are actually twice as much as €110 million for the same sections. Where will these funds be used? Traffic on Slovenian motorways is rising steeply, barriers and traffic jams are increasing every day and I expect that the dynamics of highway construction will, of course, increase with this reserve and that motorways will be built sooner than before 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are coming to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since the report has already been prepared, we can also begin our consideration of 46. POINTS OF THE DAY - WITH DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR SUCCESS TO THE PUBLIC AGENCY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR SUCCESSATION - Urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Before you, the law, which is supposed to have dealt with issues of the implementation of the professional tasks related to the implementation of the succession agreement ratified by the National Assembly in 2002. The last country that has also ratified it is Croatia. This was this year, so now the agreement will actually begin to be fully implemented and this somehow requires different organisation by Slovenia in the implementation of the professional tasks for the implementation of this Agreement. So far, we have had the issues of succession resolved in such a way that the professional tasks were fully in the ministries, depending on the problem, while there was also a success fund where financial issues were identified and, above all, financial resources related to successful issues. The proposal before you proposes the following solution. An agency shall be established to take over all professional tasks which are multidisciplinary related to the implementation of the Agreement. At the same time, the Director of the Agency is expected to be the High Representative of the State, who is subordinate to the Government in the works relating to political decisions and fully independent in the work relating to professional tasks and following the Agency Act. Financial issues are resolved in such a way that instead of a specific fund, a budget fund is set up, where the obligations and claims on the basis of inheritance are set up and at the same time establish relations with the State budget. I suggest you adopt the bill before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? No, no, no. We got a report on the bench. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will first be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, escort. Ladies and gentlemen. The government sent this bill very late and the man wonders why. Doubts are raised that either they were not ready or they did not want to send her through without any particular problems. The bill was also very weak and therefore our legal and legislative service had to review this matter and substantially change the law. In this revised proposal, it now seems that the matter is in the right direction. The explanation of this law is very simple and the reader of this document cannot clearly know what this is about. In fact, financial data, which are extremely important in a proposal dealing with financial territory, are also very weak, and if it were not for the fact that recent reports of this Fund were published or published in the Rapporteur for the years 2002 and 2003, a person would know even less than he would otherwise have. However, it would be expected that at least a reference to these two reports would be made in the explanation, for then one gets a slightly better picture than the one given in the proposed law. Not that I could not fully understand how it was so difficult to obtain financial data from the finance ministry. One could almost conclude now after the conclusion of our mandate that it is somehow a state policy or government policy to give as little data as possible to Members, it will be easier to do so. And I think it's a completely wrong policy, because if we don't have the data, yet I expect us to take something quickly, that's bad for everyone: for the country and for the citizens. Another enigma that appears here in this proposal is that the state or government has decided to use the public agency mechanism for a two-part system: one is a fund; the other is a public agency. Interestingly, when a person sees a report or a law on public agencies, article 2 states: "The public agency shall be established to carry out regulatory, developmental and professional tasks in the public interest, unless otherwise provided for by law." This is also said if a person looks at the criteria for setting up, we can read in Article 4 that a public agency is established if, according to the nature or nature of the tasks, it is not necessary or is not adequate for continuous political control over the performance of the tasks. And of course, it is a worrying language, for from other articles of this law we can find that the actual national assembly at this agency will have no function or control or anything. This is particularly disturbing in a matter involving large amounts of money and which can be manipulated if anyone wants to. I am not saying that this has happened or will happen, but such a possibility should not be foreseen by law, and a person would almost like to vote against this law, but I think we will do what we do not want to do to oppose it and leave the freedom of Members in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. When we discussed this proposal on the Foreign Policy Committee, at the very beginning, we found a whole series of errors, inconsistencies and inconsistencies at the beginning. That is why our legal service had to put as many as two sides of the amendment in order to get the matter in order as possible. The matter is now a little more consistent, even though the Slovenian National Party also raises the same questions as we heard from the speaker's presentation. The fact is that we still do not know whether this law is in fact prepared simply to ensure that some of the policies served by certain political parties who are known not to run again or no longer to be elected will have to be prepared one favourable place in order to continue to draw wages and burden the state budget. The fact is that the purpose of the government was certainly that in the beginning. Of course, on the Foreign Policy Committee, we have somehow overlooked this and made a number of adjustments and made a number of changes. The main criticism goes either way to the government side because it is not clear to us how so many mistakes and so many inconsistencies can be made in such a short marriage. It is justifiable that this was a direct purpose, that it was intended at the back to put someone in certain jobs that Parliament could not control. And now, in fact, apart from the law that regulates these matters, we will not have any control either. The government will take everything into its own hands and the government will give guidance to the High Representative to act on the Joint Heritage Committee and it will be directly responsible for its functioning to the government. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask where is the Parliament to control it. We know that government control is almost impossible and that the government always puts us before a certain fact and it turns out that many times, almost most times, the government has acted to the detriment of the Slovenian state for this or that reason. Usually because it was necessary to bow to the left, to the right and to the most recently Croats. We are afraid that this law will also lead to the fact that the leading members of the successor agency of the Republic of Slovenia will look more closely at the interests of neighbouring Croatia and help it than at their own interests. Our foreign policy and government have not yet learned to take care of domestic people first, only then, if we have more, will we take care of others. Not as a fellow LDS member said days ago that all the people in this world have the same sun - for sure. But if our people don't have anything to eat, I don't give a damn about the neighborhood. Our government doesn't know that yet. In the Slovenian National Party, we fear that this law is also essentially aimed in this direction, in order to help and improve the situation in other countries of the successors of the former Yugoslavia, and Slovenia will not have much benefit. I'm speaking from the experience we've had with the work we've been doing so far. And despite the fact that the law, according to the Foreign Policy Committee's requirements, has to a certain extent been rectified, we will still not support this law, but we will not oppose it, because it is better than nothing. Unfortunately, we have to agree to a less bad or worse variant. I would like to and in the Slovenian National Party we would like to once get proposals on the table where we will be able to choose between good, better and best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Respectable. Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are somewhat skeptical of the solutions brought by this law, and we are particularly surprised that the government has come to Parliament so late by this law, which is supposed to deal with technical matters of succession. Here in the explanation the government says that the current Slovenian legal order does not regulate the areas of succession of the SFRJ in a uniform way, the work is scattered in several departments. Does the government not know that until 2004, a few months before the elections? Was there not enough time for such an important issue to be settled in time and for the functioning of the law, which would have been adopted in time, to have the influence and the possibility of monitoring. In fact, we are very concerned that this law does not provide for any role for the National Assembly, although we know that now that an agreement on succession has entered into force on 3 June 2004, the National Assembly has been involved and has been regularly reported to it. Now that the financial consequences of this succession agreement have been followed, however, the National Assembly has been eliminated. In fact, success is an extremely important issue. In our client we think that only now because of the issues of success are certain human resources solutions being implemented, one such case is in our opinion the replacement of the Director of the Archives of Slovenia, who was critical until the archives were cleaned by the Slovenian intelligence and security agency and access to the Belgrade archives. I think it is extremely political and it has a political connotation. And if such things happen, how can we trust what the government has brought to the national assembly at the last meeting? We, too, or with my predecessors, agree that it is very strange that such a short law needed such major changes, practically in every article, and that it was inconsistent. And about success. Look, when I say what was an important question. We know that in this area there has been a diversion of Slovenian positions, Slovenian negotiating positions so far. We have always argued that the issue of savers of the former Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb is a thing of success, and then this year we learned that this did not apply to all the privileged, Croatian politicians who were paid money.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u34	Mr Jerovšek, you know that you are completely out of the law that we have before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u35	I'm sorry, Madam Vice President, but then you don't know what's in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u36	Mr Jerovšek, the position of the Group of Members, please, if you continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u37	For this reason, of course, I also ask here whether this amendment is in Article 8, which states: "In the transfer of funds in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 7, of this Law, on the basis of the calculation, a portion of the fund's obligations so far have been settled from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and are expressed as a claim to the Fund. [[...]] "We are wondering whether, as a claim to the Fund, funds that have been paid to the Croatian Ambassador to Letika and former Yugoslav Minister Budimir Loncar by lobbying and transferring the former President have been paid out of the budget and whether these funds are being expressed as a claim to the Fund and whether they will now be settled. This is one such question, because of this, of course, because there is a whole lot of unanswered questions here that could not actually be asked because it came so urgently to the assembly. Otherwise, we understand that the regulation of technical matters may require an organisational change, an institutional change, but because there are too many unanswered questions, we too will decide not to support or reject, leave the Members to decide. But like I said, we can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u38	Dear Mr Jerovšek, you know, the amendments have not been tabled on the amended bill. The questions you are asking cannot be answered because there will be no debate, only a presentation of the views of the groups on the bill is possible. Either way, your debate was more provocative. The views of the groups are no longer in place. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. I'm informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. I invite Members and Members to the Chamber because we will vote on the bill. We vote on the bill. There are 51 of us present, 39 Members and Members voted against 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for their cooperation. We are moving on to the consideration of the 47.A agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in Road Transport - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Bank Janc, to present the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you. I would like to present very briefly the report of the Committee on the treatment of the law on amendments and amendments to the road transport law. The Committee has examined this law. In the light of the legislative and legal service's comment, the amendment to Article 1 was also adopted and, in principle, this law aligns the law on road transport with the law on offences, namely Articles 114 and 115 of the Act, which deals with penalties for offences committed by foreign carriers during a transitional period and harmonises the non-compliance of the two laws until 1.1.2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Mrs. Silva, please, Mr. Weber. [[...]] I'm sorry, there's been no correction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act is a change to the law, which, as such, we have adopted extremely late. It should be adopted substantially before Slovenia entered the European Union, as some things could then be defined more precisely, but above all it would probably not be necessary to amend the law already in this short period, as it was necessary to regulate the issue of line carriers with the entry of Slovenia into the European Union and, of course, the second set of road traffic controls due to the abolition of customs control and to ensure control at checkpoints, on roads and in other places within the country. This has been the case when we find that ineffective punishment of foreign carriers could lead to inequality of Slovenian carriers, contrary to foreign carriers, because, for example, there could be more acute and frequent punishment of our carriers abroad than foreign carriers in our country. Clearly, the system of punishing carriers is also an important element in the success of this very large and important part of the economy, and it is right to try to address these shortcomings, which have also occurred in Slovenia. Of course, it is important that these shortcomings be addressed by the time the law on offences starts to apply and this will apply in January 2005. Therefore, for a period of time, it is necessary to align this policy in this area within the Member States of the European Union, and it is right that Slovenia, as such, should also deal in a comparable manner with this issue so that carriers can carry out their important mission more effectively and in particular equally with other European Union carriers. That's why we're going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we adopted the Road Transport Act in June and that road traffic control has not been in line with the offence law since borders were abolished in the European Union at specific control points within the country. Given that our carriers abroad are easily penalised in the European Union because they have regulated legislation and foreign carriers are not, legislation in this area has to be supplemented or amended so that our carriers are not in an unequal position. Well, precisely because of this harmonisation and because our drivers and foreign drivers will somehow be equal, our parliamentary group will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented - it does not want to. Neither does liberal democracy. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Well, the addition of the law on amendments and additions to the road transport law is at least visual, in view of the very simple proposal of the law by emergency procedure, but you, colleagues, colleagues and others probably know that it is not so simple again. This is, in particular, an absolute assessment in the Slovenian National Party. Last year, I think that time or so before, this marriage, the novel was adopted. She's been talking about line transports as long as we can remember. And we would like to say the following about this law in the Slovenian National Party. It is very important for us to deal with this law in the event - especially now that we are naturally involved in international integration, especially in the case of foreign offenders. In view of the fact identified by the assessment of the situation, we will not oppose this bill in the Slovenian National Party, but only for one reason, because this amendment should prevent the unequal punishment of Slovenian carriers in relation to foreign carriers. At least this is how we have defined or understood efficiency through the objectives and origins of this law. So, if we did not accept it, it would be that the punishments of Slovenian carriers abroad would be more acute and more frequent than foreign carriers in our country. At the same time, let me say and point out what the Slovenian National Party has already warned three times, and no other political option, absolutely none, has listened. We have already requested, at the beginning of the examination of this law, only to the extent that we have the right to require heavy freight transport to be arranged in such a way as to shift them to rail transport, following the example of some European countries. Two birds at one stroke would be saved by this, according to the Slovenian National Party. At the same time, the traffic congestion, the destruction of Slovenian roads would not be possible under this principle at all, we would, of course, avoid the many criminal sanctions that we have to regulate in this context, and would also regulate security in particular. In short, many of the reasons the Slovenian National Party asked for, warned, asked for, but let us give heavy freight transport to us on the railways and thus solve many problems. Nobody wanted to accept it, so we're here today. Of course, we are also asking in the Slovenian National Party how it is that, at least as far as we understand this novel, we have the only competent judge for offences for punishment, while we have a clear and clear statement in the display of regulations in other countries, that, for example, if we compare Germany, Austria, other countries, they have very special inspections, which we, as far as we understand it, we are terminating. In particular, one doctrine is completely unclear. Lawyers will teach me, I am not alone, a diction that says, in particular, the first explanation of Article 1: "With the addition of the article, a transitional period shall be provided in cases of on-the-spot punishment of drivers until the new offence law is enforced." But the Act on Offences states that the Act was passed on 18.12.2002, enters into force in 2003, and enters into force in 2005. Excuse me, for me and for my colleagues and a colleague in the Slovenian National Party, if a law enters into force, it shall apply and apply. Unless, of course, I understand that this country is benevolent, the law applies if we violate it and we are forgiven by 2005 for violating it, and then they will punish us. But I don't think such a policy is good, and especially such a strange diction at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much. And the position of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. No amendments have been tabled in the supplementary proposal, and no amendments can be tabled in the third reading of the amendments. At the same time, I inform you that I was not informed that the marriage would be inconsistent. I invite ambassadors and Members to the Chamber because we will move on to a decision on the law. We're voting on the law. There are 49 of us present, 37 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We move on to the 47.B point of the agenda - a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on amendments to the law on railway transport necessary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was considered by the Infrastructure Committee as the parent working body. I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Branko Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The Committee considered a proposal for a law amending the law on amendments and additions to the law on rail transport. On the basis of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, a discussion was also held on the consistency of individual articles. The debate drew attention to the fact that, by amending Article 27 of the Rail Transport Act, the State guarantees a total of EUR 12 billion 700 million. This is a guarantee to the Railway Agency, with the aim of providing means to modernise railway infrastructure in accordance with the national development programme of the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure. Therefore, by amending the law and issuing the guarantee for 2 billion 200 million tolars, individual sections will be modernised, namely to increase speed at the Ljubljana-Maribor section, thus replacing the revenue shortfall of the public railway agency for the part to be paid by rail infrastructure users. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the measure laid down by this law also means the business rehabilitation of Slovenian railways. The content of the proposed law is also linked to the means to be provided by the State or, on its behalf, by the Railway Agency for the conduct of an economic public service, namely the infrastructure of Slovenian railways and the smooth decoupling of traffic. The content of the proposed law is also linked to the resources that the State or the Railway Agency, as the manager of the public railway infrastructure, must provide for the implementation of the programme. However, an essential part of this law is also linked to the use of European Fund funds. Exploiting the possibility of spending these funds is a condition that the Republic of Slovenia will not be a net payer in the European budget and that the Slovenian People's Party will therefore support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented to us by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. I welcome the assembly that is adjourned. The mobility of the population ensures the timely arrival of workers and provides students, students and students with school attendance. Because of the non-performability of the lines, they have been shut down over the past 12 years. It was just a fire extinguisher and without a systemic or systemic solution. This year, Slovenia has to provide a billion 871 million, which it will provide for the railway agency under an additional loan with the State guarantee of 2.2 billion when the proposed law is subject to it. And we want to know where the difference of 29 million will go. Technical equipment, including signalling, should also be identified for the implementation of the Ljubljana-Maribor railway speed increase project. The AJP will rent a 9-year-old loan with a two-year moratorium and 7 years to pay off the principal. However, interest matters have been going on since the beginning. A few strange logics. So, it's a bit of a non-transparent thing - I'm interested. Perhaps the proposer would answer that question. Economic development in the field of rail transport and increased competitiveness have been envisioned mainly in the freight sector Our Lady, we will extend for a second [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u52	Mr. Mamić, the envious silence is in the hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u53	I'm insanely disciplined, please. Be fair to me, too. With regard to the guarantee and the determination of the purpose and the extent of the use of the funds to be provided by the loans, the provisions of the second paragraphs 24, 25 and 26 of the Act shall apply mutatis mutandis, in particular Article 25, which speaks of the granting of the guarantee. The Republic of Slovenia shall provide the guarantee referred to in the preceding Article under the following conditions: Moratorium - at least one year, maturity - at least 7 years, interest rate - comparable to interest on loans with State guarantees. All costs associated with the preparation and approval of an individual loan shall not exceed 5 % of the value of the principal of the loan. The scope of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia shall be reduced by the amount of the loan hired, for which the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia shall be given. However, nowhere does it say that this does not apply to interest and loans. It is also necessary to determine how many resources there are, since enlargement is only a domestic part of what is European resources and to what extent we will actually benefit them. I'm interested in this proportion. Maintenance. Investment maintenance works planned in 2004 take place on the most important Slovenian routes, in particular those that are part of the 5th Barcelona-Kiev Corridor. It is only necessary to verify the accuracy of the items according to the dynamics and the implementation plan, which is not available. Modernisation of public rail infrastructure can also be represented by individuals by the Republic of Slovenia now building everything and then individuals privatise freight transport in particular. That's what we were talking about. Ensuring the flow and safety of rail transport is also problematic because they are not able to provide the necessary prisons. That's what we were talking about, too. I had a question. Part of the rehabilitation of the business system of Slovenian railway companies, consisting of Holding Slovenske železnice d.o.o. with dependent companies, is also a reduction in operating costs. Since it is a synergistic dependent component, the chain is only as strong as it is the weakest article, which they do not realize in Holding or do not want to be aware. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The Liberal Democracy Group will support the proposed law. In fact, the additional guarantee to the Railway Agency makes it possible, of course, to participate in this Agency for the modernisation of the Ljubljana-Maribor railway line and the drawback of funds arising from the Memorandum. Of course, we draw attention to the part of the questions that are, of course, hidden in the background. In fact, it is an excessive debt, probably an excessive debt, of the railway agencies, which will ultimately mean that the state will take over the debt sooner than before. In fact, as a source of the Agency's operation, as the main source of rail services, which is currently not paid by the main user, so, of course, not officially as a committee or as a national assembly, we were no longer aware of how the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways is taking place. We would like to point out, however, that taking on commitments and public awareness of the National Assembly is also successful and that Slovenian railways are profitable, of course, encouraging data for us, but probably, as it appears, it does not fully hold. It would, of course, be useful to point out to the supervisory authorities of Slovenian railways as well as to the Government that it is very closely monitoring the recovery of the holding company and its subsidiaries and, in this regard, to ensure that the situation in relation to payment of certain obligations and the integration of public railway infrastructure can also take place in the future in a smooth and user-friendly manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thanks again for saying that. The content of the proposed law is also linked to the means to be provided by the State or on its behalf by the Railway Agency for the provision of an economic public service for the maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure operated by Holding Slovenian Railways. The provision of this service is certainly essential for the country, as it ensures rail transport and the successful operation of the holding company, and thus the employment of a large number of railway workers. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the fact that from 1.7, in fact, the deadline for new companies to be registered has somehow expired and that more intensive recovery should take place within the holding company itself. At the same time, the fact that the new Rail Transport Act has also begun to operate by the Railway Agency, which must also be extremely careful, particularly in this initial phase, about the operation or employment and cost increases of the Agency's operation, so that in the future there is not too much funding for the operation of services, but too little for infrastructure maintenance and solutions that allow for increased speed or improvement of technical elements on our railway tracks. In fact, the funds under this law are allocated at a rate of 700 million to maintain the infrastructure and a billion 500 million tolls for the Ljubljana-Maribor speed increase project. So very important solutions that will certainly increase the interest in rail transport, and thus in the future we may also be able to pay for the rail network, which should somehow also be the source of the obligation to pay for this loan. The current use is certainly not realistically planned, so it will be necessary to speed up the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways in a way that will be as rational as possible and that the solutions will be coordinated primarily with the unions, so that there will be no problems in the operation of all rail transport in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that, some 400 million tolars have been allocated to this purpose, and that the amount has somehow been redeployed from the fund that can be earmarked for combined transport. And the solution in combined rail transport, which was subsidised by May, can, of course, be only and only by increasing the prices of services. Let us therefore hope that the consequences of the resolution of line transport in the Republic of Slovenia will not be reflected in excessive price increases, but that there will be an assessment and harmonisation of all relevant solutions within this department, so that it will be as successful as possible in this period, as long as we do not already have a transport policy, both public line transport, bus transport and, of course, rail transport. These are some key points that we do not yet have enough covered, and of course there are problems that we can solve right now in the way of borrowing credits. We would like this policy to be significantly more effective in the future so that rail transport can function even more effectively. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport is a matter which we will certainly not support in the Slovenian National Party. On Slovenian railways, the situation is terrible. In fact, the situation is widespread and the only thing that is consistent is that they intend to own Slovenian railways in a way that the state will give the finance, the goods will be collected by private individuals, debts guaranteed by the state, of course will fall on the shoulders of taxpayers, some gentlemen who have already prepared three companies that have not yet been established, but will become owners at any time, and - again, the new wealthy in the Republic of Slovenia. Holding Slovenian Railways d.o.o. they say they will be able to compete in the transport services market. Surely it will be competitive, because the state will give money they will also buy locomotives - now it will buy a whole series of Siemens locomotives - no one will check the situation. The matter is very dark, and I hope that the police will intervene in the matter and, in time, clarify things that are happening in this area and take appropriate action at the same time. Of course, we will all be paying as much debt as we have guaranteed in the National Assembly, which is not discussed today. Debt alone is higher in Slovenia every day. Another thing is interesting, railways every year, according to their own words, "few" for as many as a few billion Slovenian tolars, and we confirm that. But each year they're in a bigger loss and a bigger mess. But to do something to get the money to the railroads - not that! The Slovenian national party has already proposed three times in previous mandates that heavy freight transport should be diverted to railways, not crossing our roads. I hope that the inhabitants of Prekmurje and in Pomurje and Prleka will once again close a road and that, at least in this way, they will show the Slovenian authorities that it is actually a bottleneck and that it is actually an incomplete programme. The visions of the Slovenian railway have none anyway. The vision of Slovenian railways is this, to collect as much money as possible, to get rich and then to go all the way home to the devil. No one will be interested because no one in Slovenia has yet been responsible for the missed investments, whether these investments should be missed because of ignorance, ignorance or, according to the Slovenian National Party, also because of the criminal nature or orientation or desire. I believe that this issue will be of these 2.2 billion Slovenian tolls, as the burden increases, that it will fall again on those who bear the burden of the most severe economic and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that the law will be adopted, because the ruling coalition of the United List of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy will do its utmost to provide its people with the right positions, the appropriate financial means for the next action, which is certainly questionable after the next elections. Therefore, it is now necessary, at the last moment, to provide the means to make the matter easier to glass after perhaps or certainly this party and these parties are no longer in a leading position and will not be able to cut their bread as they have cut it so far. Let me get this straight. The Slovenian National Party will not support this law and I must say that we are actually ashamed of the Slovenian National Party, that we must participate in such laws as essentially the privatisation of state property, it is a matter of creating some new rich people, of course all at the expense of the Slovenian population.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. And the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, presented by Jože Tanko. I think it's right that we take a lunch break at 12:30, so there won't be any problems with the concoction - 12.30. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not thrilled that laws having significant financial implications are adopted at the last meeting of the National Assembly, although the problems we have been solving with these laws have been known for quite some time - it is said, in this particular case for at least half a year. We have a very bad feeling because under the cover of time distress and with the threat of irreparable consequences, the participation of the state, they accept these things under great pressure and by emergency procedure, when virtually no things can be checked. Today we will be voting an additional guarantee of 2.2 billion tolars, which will be partially spent, as we see, from the maintenance law, partly for speeding up or for the investment part of the project. This suggests that the project of updating or increasing speed has recently increased by about 20%, in hard currency, in euros. At the very least, the contracting authority should explain precisely the reasons for the increase in these costs. This is mainly due to the fact that we launched a low-rated project on international funds, on co-financing funds, and also in a certain proportion, we provide our own resources for the rest of the project. However, this 2.2 billion increase means that we have started for so long with too little funds and about a third of this money that we are repairing the project is the one that would give us under the co-financing quota for Europe, we must now cover ourselves. So it's about 700 million that we're going to have to provide ourselves instead of getting them as grants. This is not the first case in which we have been exposed to irreversible foreign resources. This happens every time in enormous amounts, because it is large projects and I think that the government in this area should increase the responsibility of all those who work, and of all those who carry out the projects, such as personal responsibility, professional responsibility, financial responsibility and even ultimately political responsibility, because it is obvious that projects and public funds do not work carefully, do not work rationally, do not use resources deliberately and do not have sufficient responsibility and fairness. Another problem we have been alerting for a long time is the property transformation of the Slovenian Railways, which will reach into this project in a very strange way. Successful parts will be privatised, the burden will remain on the state budget or taxpayers. At the very least, the tax burden will be higher for all the profits paid from the successful part of the beneficiary companies. In this area, taxpayers will be burdened excessively, in the right way. The third problem is also a regressive use that does not allow for the actual performance of the Slovenian Railways, as well as the quality of the administration's work. I don't think we can be proud to be paid only ten percent of the normal usage, normal prices and, therefore, we should seriously consider all the parameters of the operation of the Slovenian Railways as well as the entire executive and public administration. Control over public companies is a kind of disaster, because there is no real control, nor in procurement, nor in the sale of property. And even when control of public companies is trying to initiate or is trying to specifically investigate this matter [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with the commissions, all such desires and attempts in this National Assembly are blocked in a very high-quality manner. [[...]] In view of the current trends in the payment of guarantees, it is highly likely that this guarantee will also be cashed in to pay the state budget, which means, after all, that matters are transferred only to the next generation. Although we will not oppose the law in our parliamentary group, there is a need for serious control over the operations of public companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 39 Members and Members voted against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the meeting. At 1 p.m., we continue to consider the 48th point, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the plant health law. I wish you a good one.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u63	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to 48. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION OF PLANTS, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose representatives are on their way. Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary, will you give an introductory explanation or present the law? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members! We are ahead of you by amending the Plant Health Act, which was already adopted by the National Assembly in June 2001. At that time, many regulations have changed in the field of plant health in the European Union and new rules have been adopted. This is why we are also amending this law, because the new rules are in force with 1.1.2005 and we want the law or our legal order to be in line with the European one. It must be said that in this law we come with some substantive changes. One of the essentials is to coordinate phytosanitary checks and procedures at the border at the time of entry into the interior of our country with the customs code. The second amendment to the law entails new obligations with regard to the implementation of phytosanitary checks and procedures relating to wood packaging. It is also new to establish relations between the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for the phytosanitary area and the Community authorities. Above all, it is the cooperation, reporting and, after all, the financing of certain procedures. It must be said, however, that we are also interfering with the area of offences, as this material law also needed to be harmonised with the new law on offences that enters into force next year. Please support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much for further explanation of the bill. The report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the parent working body, was received on the bench. Does the representative of the committee want to explain the report? Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u66	On behalf of the Group of Members, not on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u67	There's no committee. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u68	Because I'm a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u69	No, I was just a little distracted. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Aloyz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to be as brief as possible, so I will just say the position of the New Slovenia Group. We will support this bill, although I must say that we do not agree that such large-scale amendments to the law are adopted in an urgent manner. I can add this, too, that this legal committee on agriculture, as an extremely technical law, at least by itself I understand it, came, I will not say poorly prepared, but flawed, and that it was then necessary to amend it in several articles by means of the legislative and legal service in the National Assembly. What we enjoyed about this law and what we had already said two years ago when the Law on Plant Health and Seeding was adopted, we were already talking a lot about the plant passport, and today we are somehow changing this matter, and we recognize that it is like a plant passport and a sufficient label on the packaging. Of course, we could have taken this solution by then, but at the time it was no longer a pleasure for this matter to be simplified. However, we are not satisfied that the ministry, the government, does not follow the directives of the European Union, namely, certain tasks carried out by the administration in this area today, could be granted to individuals of private law, is said to be natural persons, if the ministry and, of course, the Members followed them, we are convinced that it would be possible to reduce certain costs and eliminate some nonsense or definitively create legislation with the directives of the European Union. This, of course, continues to be the case in this area. And it is likely that such a decision will soon result in the need for the plant health law to change again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you, colleague Sok. Now I give my word to my colleague, Sylvie Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Today, too, we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Care Act, following an urgent procedure. Amendments and additions to this Act are also among those necessary technical changes and additions, as well as technical ones, which are the most recent in the chain of harmonisation of legislation with European Union legislation. It is important in this law that some changes were also of a substantive nature, in particular those relating to phytosanitary control at the border and also to the content of phytosanitary control. It is also important for this law, among others, that it is clearly defined how and how the information system will be informed between countries, which I think is very important for the protection of citizens and citizens of the state of Slovenia, because it only raises the protection and protection of everyone in Slovenia, because standards and norms in this area are constantly increasing, and because it is a normal and logical consequence of one process that we have started, so we will support these laws in the UK Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much for the position of the United Nations Group. The position of the LDS Club, anyone want to introduce? [[No, no, ……]] Slovenian people's parties? [[No, no, ……]] These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 15.7.2004. To the supplementary proposal of the law on the amendment tabled in Article 3. This amendment to Article 3 is corrected and you have a special sheet on the table, where the amendment is in the corrected text, and is then to Articles 20, 26 and 60. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 3. I'm opening a debate. On the contrary, today is a slightly different regime. Now we're gonna have to call our colleagues and colleagues. I call on my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we are going to vote. I am putting an amendment to Article 3 to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There's not enough of us here. The second time we will vote on the amendment to Article 3. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We weren't successful the second time. At 13.22 hours, we will vote for the third time. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u74	Colleagues and colleagues, could I have your attention, please? The scheduled time for the third vote is here and I am putting to the vote the amendment by the third time of Article 3. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 54 for the amendment, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club to Article 20. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. We vote on Article 20 or on the amendment to this Article. We're voting. There were 57 of us present, 52 for the amendment, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 26. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 55 for the amendment, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting an amendment to Article 60 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 60. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 51 votes for the amendment, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to third reading. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3, 20, 26 and 60 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[Nobody.]] The amendments are therefore not announced. I ask whether the law is harmonised with regard to the amendments adopted. Please, Mrs. Vida Čadonic Špelič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u75	Dear Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u76	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u77	I would ask you to accept further government harmonisation amendments to this law, because due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, in particular Article 14, paragraph 3, the harmonisation amendments had to be prepared. It was necessary to harmonise the same term in all articles, instead of imports, we now use the term "vnos" from third countries and, in fact, through all these harmonisation amendments, we only follow the objective of replacing these two words. This is said to go through all amendments to the same procedure to replace those two words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u78	We note that the harmonisation amendments concern several articles, but the content of the harmonisation is the same. I ask you, do you mind if we vote together on the harmonisation amendments? [[No, no, ……]] No one opposes this, so we can vote on all the harmonisation amendments together. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the harmonisation amendments have been adopted. We can now move to a full vote on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 62 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm moving to 49. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants - urgent procedure. Would you like a representative of the government, Secretary of State? Please, Mrs. Vida Chadonič-Spelič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Another law is before you from the area covered by the phytosanitary administration, namely the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. While this is a year younger law than the previous one, it was also adopted in 2002 and for the same reasons as I said earlier in this period, only so much European legislation has changed that it was necessary to go back to changing this law. With a view to being fully coordinated in the second year of 1.1.2005, we are moving ahead. Here too, the bureau may have emphasized what is in it. One of the major changes to this law is to coordinate the registration procedure in the variety list and to market seed material with agricultural plants. The second amendment to the law brings alignment with the innovations in the allocation and issue of labels and supplier certificates, it is said, for transport. Here too, as I said before, we are also interfering with the area of offences in order to bring it into line by 1.1. next year with this law. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much for further explanation. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Your report's on the table. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Aloys Sok. He's quitting. Silva Nigga. He's quitting. Franz Sušnik, Geza Juban, mag. Kramberger or someone else? Thank you very much. The amendments to this amended bill have not been tabled, so we can go to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. There are 55 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the government representatives for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 50. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW ON THE RECOVERY OF PRESSURES TO THE PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. He wants a minister, Dr. Paule Gantar, a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u82	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u83	The deadline for issuing applications for reimbursement of investments in the telecommunications network has expired on 7.6.2004. The Ministry of Information Society has constantly monitored and guided the implementation of the law, formed a special group, a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry, the State Defence, an association of investors, both associations of municipalities and discussed and negotiated all open issues. We also provided many explanations and answers to the natural persons and municipalities, the local communities that decided to apply for return on investments. More than 100 such questions and answers are listed and published on the website of the Ministry of Information Society. The period covered by the implementation of the law covers more than 20 years. At the time of the submission of these applications, it turned out that there were sometimes very unpredictable and divergent situations in life. Thus, there is not one contract or other document which would be identical or very similar. The search for contracts and other authentic documents was extensive. We have, of course, helped and published all those treaties that we know exist on the websites. At the end of the deadline, we estimated that some could find contracts or other authentic documents relatively quickly, easily, and submit applications, while others had difficulties. Some may also have been a little late in their investment, in their search for weights, and we have therefore assessed that not all potential beneficiaries were in the same situation on the day of the submission of applications. The government has therefore decided to propose to the National Assembly that the deadline for the submission of applications should be extended by six months, a real take if we take it that June is already over, that July and August are holiday months, that this is actually a three-month extension. More than 30,000 applications have arrived, which also shows some misunderstandings, as some have filed claims, even though the congregation or the local community should have done so, and some have also filed completely wrong claims for the payment of the telephone apparatus even, the connection and so on. I propose that you adopt the law as proposed, including the amendment adopted by the Committee on the Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Minister, for further explanation of the bill. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. The rapporteur of the Committee, Vice-President of this Committee, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u85	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 24th emergency meeting, on 30 June 2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The proposed substance sought to make this law as equitable as possible for all investment beneficiaries, and the Government also proposed a amendment to this law. The government representative also ensured that the deadline under consideration would not be extended again, at least not on a proposal from the government. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted a further amendment to add a Article 1a, which in effect allows applications lodged in due time to be considered as being also submitted in advance of the entry into force of this Act. The Committee was of the opinion that, in an appropriate manner, the amendment allows us to avoid any confusion as to whether applications lodged after the expiry of the old deadline and before the new deadline are put in place are considered timely. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. The amended bill, which forms an integral part of this report, includes all the amendments adopted. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you to the rapporteur, Blaža Kavčič. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Franz Lenko, DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members! By confirming the "telecommunication" referendum carried out more than a year ago, the State has been committed to returning to the beneficiaries of investments in the public telecommunications network - that is, investments in telephone centres, inter-country telephone lines, local telephone networks - the funds that individuals have used in the past to build. The principle of equal treatment of all beneficiaries requires that we extend the period by which we should already apply for the reimbursement of the funds invested in the public telecommunications network. We are aware that this is a collection of documentation that has accumulated over 20 years and that the dispersion of documents and the possible difficulty of the participation of those who keep or acquire documents has made it impossible for a large number of beneficiaries to catch up with the law. This is also illustrated by the fact that only ten days before the expiry of the deadline, around 20,000 beneficiaries of the alleged 180,000 beneficiaries, which is only around 11% of all beneficiaries. The principle of equal or fair treatment requires that each beneficiary be reimbursed as much as the individual has invested. Although these are technical details, they are not irrelevant, they are in fact very important. The amount of the refund shall not be fixed on a flat-rate basis but proportionate to the cartridge. This commands a non-discriminatory way of dealing. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we support the adoption of a law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, but we propose to clarify ourselves in the future on possible similar issues before the legal deadline. The problem with the collection of documentation, the new, unexpected beneficiaries and the slow handling of individual applications are likely to have proved to be long before the four-month deadline expired, i.e. before 7.6.2004, which was foreseen by the law we are amending today. It would be good if the beneficiaries knew what they could expect and acted accordingly. However, the extension of the deadline for lodging applications should not affect the situation of those who have submitted their request in due time. Our group will support this change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Alojz Sok has the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u89	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! The Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network has had a very good time. Finally, it was decided by citizens and citizens at the referendum and, of course, they made a clear commitment to how too much money should be recovered for the development of telephony. Unfortunately, today we find that the government has not taken the referendum decision seriously, instead of starting a return, it comes before us today with some law, with some pre-election gesture, let us extend the deadline and then we will return this issue once after the elections. I am afraid that this will make both the government and this national assembly irresistible in this matter. I am even more concerned by Mr Gantar's statement at the 44th extraordinary meeting, on 31 May, here is what he said. It was about the Slovenian property transition and said, "When we went into transition, we knew that certain things were going to happen and we knew that not all would come as well through, that is the fact that if you wanted or didn't want to." And then, of course, he says that in LDS, they were critical of this, and that we have to say that, as far as certificates are concerned, we knew that it was not possible to distribute just the wealth, that we also had to share social loss. On this issue, it seems to me that Mr Minister responsible for these returns thinks similarly and that the task entrusted to him at the referendum is to be avoided. It's impossible to say that Telekom doesn't have the data. We all know that he has them, that he must have them, because PTT has been operating as a state company, he has invoices and all these contracts are in the archive of the PTSD and, of course, later in his successor Telekom. And if those responsible had as many responsibilities as citizens and citizens had imposed on them by referendum, then we would also begin to resolve this issue in an appropriate manner. This, of course, is the way they interpret it, and they actually expect that, if not alone, someone else will have to deal with it properly or as set out in the referendum. On the other hand, I will read the newspaper's entry "Telecom's Management and Supervisory Board proposed, in a reference to the July Assembly, that, from 9 billion tolars of balance-sheet profit in 2003, 2.6 billion tolars, or 4,000 tolars of gross dividends per share, should be allocated to dividends in 2003. It goes, of course, it's about Telekom and about Telekom's made profits. However, with a total of 4 thousand dollars of gross dividends per share, the Ministry of Finance disagrees, as it advocates that the amount of the dividend would be higher, given that the state in Telekom has 62.5% of the ownership. With this message, which has been transmitted to the media or to the public through the media, I would like to point out that this company's profits are high and that this money could have long begun to realize what citizens and citizens have concluded at the referendum. Unfortunately, however, this government and this minister do not want to do so. They prefer to argue that there are no data to actually allow all investors to access the relevant data by extending the deadline. I'm concerned and I'm asking if in one year you haven't allowed them to access the relevant data, the photocopy of the contracts that are stored in the archives, how you're going to do it in the next three months. Of course, I do not believe you, and I think that most Slovenian citizens and citizens who expect a fair refund of these costs are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the floor. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network interferes with more than 20 years of time and, of course, there are also unpredictable and very different life situations in its implementation. In particular, it is difficult to seek or obtain contracts and other authentic public documents on the basis of which beneficiaries may exercise the right to return their investments. We could also add to this a worrying finding by the State defender, which states that, under this law, there are some 20,000 claims that are at least at an unwarranted level and that investors have relied on the claims and grounds cited by those who promoted the referendum. The basis for referendum decision-making, the promises made by this campaign have clearly also caused a lot of problems in the implementation of this law, as there are roles that, of course, do not meet these conditions, and this further makes the implementation of the law more difficult, while also burdening our judicial system. We can add that it is really necessary, not just because of this, to extend the deadline within which applications can be made. Some local communities were also not immediately prepared to join the development of lists of natural and legal persons who act as actually finally excused and sometimes even had to be encouraged to make these lists. The adoption of the bill will make it possible for some other beneficiaries to submit their applications. In view of some of the criticism expressed about Telekom's behaviour, we can also say that experience nevertheless shows that Telekom is mostly well-cooperating and monitoring the implementation of the law and helps beneficiaries with relevant documents or contracts from which it is possible to understand and enforce applications. It is not that Telekom would not cooperate and experience shows that in most cases he really cooperates, but if there is a case, he is obviously individual, which, of course, is not a rule in the implementation of this law. It is also commendable that the Government wishes to implement the law as equally as possible for all beneficiaries and, of course, it should also be added that the Ministry has also helped greatly when it has published on its website all relevant contracts and the necessary information and questions and answers, which, of course, could also raise the quality of applications and, of course, the speed of resolution of applications and, finally, would actually achieve the implementation of this law as quickly as possible and as easily as possible, and of course, the exact amount that will have to be ensured when the appropriate time is right and the privatisation of Telekom will be fully implemented. In the UK Group, we welcome this law, which extends the deadline until the end of this year, and we hope that this will also remove the many uncertainties that have arisen at the time of the adoption and implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the floor, the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! The Law on Amendments to the Return and Investment Act is ahead of us. The referendum decision is clear, the fulfilment of the undertaking is clear. We did not discuss this much in the Slovenian National Party in other parts, nor did we have negative or laudable views. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the reasons expressed by some or most of the members of the home labour force are probably the ones mentioned. Some are objective in nature; others are probably also due to problems encountered by applicants in obtaining the necessary documentation on the guilt of Telekom, that he can be justified, I can say justifiably, and I suspect that the Government has not done enough to carry out the necessary tasks for the implementation of the referendum decision. It is also true that the need to extend the period under consideration has also been expressed, and I also speak on the part of the beneficiaries. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it is necessary to find a Solomonic solution, but on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we are alerting whether or not there will be another proposed deadline to move the current one, which should be, I think that at the end of this year, in order for a new one to appear, we are confident and know that in the Slovenian National Party then we will clearly say that someone is knowingly manipulating and misleading the Slovenian people and their referendum decision. We hope this is the last date set. We will therefore not oppose the proposal of the law, but we will respect this decision unconditionally, i.e. the last month of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you. Branko Kelemina will present the position of Slovenian Democratic Sorry, I have not received a change. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the proposal for a law on return to the public telecommunications network should have seen the light of the world in 1997. This story's been going on for a long time. At that time he did not see the light of the world because the negotiations between the then government coalition partners were not successful, that is, the human party and liberal democracy. According to the information I have, they were not successful because the current Minister, Mr Gantar, did not agree with the height and way of returning those who invested in the telecommunications network. Then followed the Telecommunications Act, followed by a Constitutional Court decision, followed again in this mandate the Telecommunications Act and then the Law on Return to the Public Telecommunications Network, which, of course, brought some ridiculous or some such solutions that actually did not solve anything. Then there was an amendment to this law, which was subsequently confirmed by citizens and citizens at the referendum and, of course, the State Assembly had to adopt it. Mr Gunter has done everything since the beginning of what is in the government, but it has been a long time for investors to return to the public telecommunications network. So everything. That's his last maneuver now. And, of course, instead of implementing the provisions of the law, he took care of the cleansing of Telekom's administration by dealing with other things, not with what was the commitment of citizens and citizens. Even at the time of the adoption of this law, those who know this matter have proposed to the Slovenian Democratic Party Article 8 that it be complemented by proof of the contract referred to in Article 2, that other accounts and other authentic documents may also be available. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only way if we really want what was said to ensure that all citizens and citizens have the same opportunity to return. Not by extending the deadline, but by proving it, i.e. by other authentic documents and documents and accounts. We are aware of cases where everything that was not the basis of the treaty has been rejected by the State Defence Office, as stated in Article 8, paragraph 1, of the Treaty, and will, of course, continue to do so. This extension does not really have anything to do with allowing any of these investors to get anything back, the only thing the proponents want, the government with the minister at the head, is to do everything in order not to make this happen. It is clearly necessary to say that this is not the last change and that the new government, after the autumn elections, I believe, will immediately propose an amendment, a recast of this law and, of course, within the meaning of the 8th point of Article, where they can really prove with witnesses, accounts and other credible documents that they are eligible and investors in the telecommunications network. Such a law as it is is unjust, such a law, if you want, discriminates against individuals and, of course, if it is unjust, if it discriminates, then such a law is also unconstitutional. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no alternative but to upgrade this shortcoming, this is of course to support this extension of the deadline, but we predict that we will make a change immediately after the autumn elections, that real citizens and citizens will have the opportunity to get back what they have invested, and that there will be some irregularities in this law, and we will also eliminate them after the autumn elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Blažu Kavčič, position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u97	Respectable. With regard to this bill, the LDS Club felt particularly important that this change did not delay the actual return on investments in the telecommunications network. Indeed, the real return is conditional on the reselling of the state stake in Telekom Slovenije. And we know that more concrete options have not yet been made for the sale of state property or share in Telekom Slovenije. But we are solving some real problem with this law. The problems faced by many beneficiaries in the submission of applications have arisen, and various problems have arisen. In particular, it is difficult to seek or obtain contracts and other authentic public documents on the basis of which beneficiaries may exercise the right to return their investments. In addition, as contractual partners, those who were not envisaged in the Law on return of investments in the public telecommunications network, such as housing cooperatives, fundamental cooperative organisations, appeared. These are legal persons created by a merger of natural persons, which are foreseen as final beneficiaries. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that the proposal is justified because it provides a normative framework for equal treatment of all beneficiaries, and we will also support LDS Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! When we adopted this law, we were somehow convinced in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the four-month period from the entry into force of the law to the submission of applications was sufficient. We even felt that it could be shorter, but it turned out that archives or correspondences were largely poorly regulated on Telekom, that there were several objective reasons why individual investors could not get the evidence, and there was also some unnecessary action that was evident from some applicants by those responsible for issuing or preparing these documents. It may be a pity that the preparation of this law did not give rise to the possibility that it would also be credible to prove the payment made or made. Just collecting data would be a little easier. It is true, however, that there were different procedures or approaches at the time. In order to first begin collecting return stakeholders through the initial committees and then through the local community, the preparation of contracts and so on and through municipalities, and most often also via mail and Telekom, so that the collection of procedures was quite dispersed. Thus, this four - month period is also justified by the fact that this four - month period was practically too short for many. And even in humans, when we know that a certain period of time is relatively long, we don't approach it up to date, and then we run out of time. It's just in the nature of us. We will support the law, we are also pleased that the committee, I would say, has heard some arguments that it is necessary to avoid inadvertent interpretations, what has resolved in 1a with the procedures that have been tabled after the deadline. Article, so that the law as such is now, in my opinion, fully credible and can also work without complications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. There are 50 of us present, 46 Members and Members voted in favour of the law, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the co-workers for their cooperation. But we're moving on to 51. On the contrary, the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the securities market law is an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. He would like to speak with a representative of the government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Sybil Svilan? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The Securities Market Act, which entered into force in 1999, is a fundamental law governing the capital market in our country. Since then, certain Directives of the European Securities Council have entered into force, requiring that that law be aligned with this European acquis. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the securities market law thus fully summarises the Directive on market manipulation and trade on the basis of internal information which entered into force in January 2003 with all the other Directives supplemented. At the same time, it shall comply with the Prospectus Directive to be published when [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] offer paper to the public and place it on a regulated market. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u102	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u103	In addition, an expert consultation was held in 2003 by representatives of the European Commission, on the basis of which recommendations were made to supplement the securities legislation. Since the entry into force of the law on the market in securities, a number of amendments have also been made in the field of domestic law, in particular amendments to the law on companies, the law on banking, the law on insurance. A new law on public agencies and the Act on Offences was also adopted. Slovenian accounting standards have also been changed. All these laws have had implications both for companies, issuers of securities, stock brokering companies and for the securities market agency, which is a supervisory or regulatory institution in this area. Thus, the proposal for a securities market law, in addition to the amendments relating to EU directives, also regulates compliance with domestic legislation. The aim of the law is to achieve greater transparency of business, better integration of the market and securities services compared to what has now been and is linked to the EU, greater confidence in the market, in particular the exclusion of standards of modern market practice and the greater competence of the Securities Market Agency in the exercise of market surveillance. The main solutions provided by law relate to the following areas. The first area, most importantly, is the prevention of market manipulation and trade on the basis of internal information, and a general market abuse ban clause is also provided. The Securities Market Agency shall be given greater powers to exercise control over the illicit conduct of the securities market. This is an important novelty compared to the previous law. The law also requires that internal information be disclosed to the public as soon as possible and that persons made available to them this information be reported to the Agency on their securities transactions. The Agency shall also keep a register of such persons. All of this contributes to greater transparency in this area and facilitates the achievement of controls in prohibited transactions. The law also lays down standards to be taken into account in the production and transmission of research, studies and investment strategies to the public, with the obligations of financial analysts and journalists to disclose conflicts of interest in this regard. This is an important novelty that has been introduced both in European EU countries and with us and will prevent, for example, journalists and analysts from being biased in providing analysis for certain securities. In the field of cooperation, the Securities Market Agency and other competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia shall extend these powers and this power shall also be extended to the authorities of EU Member States. This sets out the form and manner of cooperation and the exchange of information, both in the supervision and in the issuance of appropriate authorisations for stock exchange companies. Further solutions to the law also relate to the introduction of additional services from companies. In particular, it is the provision of orders and the marketing of investment vouchers for mutual funds, which is an important novelty in our financial market and whose growth in investment funds is very high. It is also about trading activities for the account or licensing of the services of individual stock exchanges. According to the new securities issued by issuers from the Republic of Slovenia, it can also be traded in other organised markets in the EU, which has not been practiced so far. In this way, the existing restrictions are lifted and the free market for capital markets is established within the EU, where Slovenia has entered. It is important that the category of well-educated investors is also introduced in a new way and that the definition of derivatives that are aligned with the directives is also becoming more transparent on our market. It is also new that the law introduces the possibility of out-of-court resolution of disputes between the service providers in relation to the priority papers and the users of those services, which has so far not been the case. To briefly mention only compliance with important amendments to the laws on banking, insurance and agency law. These are mainly provisions of the law relating to the amount of fines, the lengthening of offences, the appointment of an authorised person and the conditions for the appointment and discharge of the Director, and the need to say that this is only a matter of concluding with domestic law. The current amendments make sense, however, to simplify certain procedures that are linked to qualified shares in stock exchanges, to inform about the intention to acquire a qualified share, to obtain and terminate the authorisation to serve as members of the board of directors of the trading house and other matters, particularly in order to simplify our financial legislation and to harmonise with the European Union. The law is in line with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy, the Securities Market Agency, interest associations and, of course, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Internal Policy and Finance Committee, or the Home Committee, which dealt with certain amendments to the law, supported the law. It should also be said that the law has no financial implications for the budget. In accordance with the above, please adopt the law in the proposed form. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you for this additional explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The chairman of this committee, Cyril Pucko, will present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that proposal to be a parent labour force and adopted individual amendments following the comments of the legislative and legal services. In particular, given the answers given by the authorities in writing, I would point out that there are detailed solutions that insist on the position that the relevant or certain other amendments or proposals are inadequate to be adopted in this amendment of the law, especially because, as has already been said or will be said later, the Government or the amendment or amendment of this law, which will be prepared by the new government, will be necessary. In particular, I would like to point out that the Committee has taken into account in its amendments the opinions or proposals of the Association of Securities Exchange Members as an economic and interest association to Article 20 and Article 99, which make sense of their proposals. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of that proposal, which has been corrected by the amendments to the Committee, I propose that we support and adopt it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much for the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Jožef Bernik, position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u107	Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary, escorts, and ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members of Parliament. This is a relatively long, complicated and, of course, a much-needed law or bill. This is one of those laws that the government sends to the National Assembly at the last minute for consideration by emergency procedure. At the outset, however, the Secretary-General of the Government has a rather arrogant comment when he highlights for a long time in the introduction what damage would have been done to our country if this proposal had not been adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure and what would have happened if they had not accepted untimely harmonisation in this area. I think that this warning was primarily for the government, not for us. And the government and the secretary-general of the government would probably only have this after a warning was written in his office. The government replaces the previous proposal sent to the National Assembly by the end of April this year. I will not comment on the articles written and reasoned in the Rapporteur on 50 pages, because I imagine that every Member in this National Assembly has read the entire bill as always. But some comments are just fine. Let me say that the government has aligned the law with the directives of the European Union after it has been told. It speaks of the fact that the applicant has taken into account the comments of the representative of the European Union or representatives of the European Union following the legal review of our legislation and has issued a report on this "pire review" as our government has said. However, it is of course interesting that this report on 'pire review' cannot be obtained anywhere and is only trusted by the government. One cannot imagine the reasons for this, for the audience should have seen what they had to say and how much the government has adhered to these suggestions. This is just a re-examination, or example, of our failing open society, which, in a undemocratic way, often steps in such a way as to leave people in ignorance for easier and smoother conduct. One more thing, and that's next. Interestingly, of the three descendants of the pids, one is released. This law does not cover ordinary societies. There is no reason for this suspension. Perhaps one of my fellow Members will know why. I will conclude with the idea that in New Slovenia we have the impression that the law will have to be supplemented, and we hope that our market will grow in the coming months and years so that we will continue to grow [[...]] [[End warning sign]] what needs to be changed in this law. In New Slovenia, we will support this law because we are aware that it is necessary, but we will be very careful about the implementation of this law and the needs of the market by increasing financial and other investments in the future. We hope that the ministry following this issue will also follow the progress and needs of this market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Leopold Groselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary, fellow Members and fellow Members! In the UK Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the securities market law, together with amendments to the home labour force. We also take into account the Government's arguments that only the necessary changes to the current law are currently being adopted. The proposed amendments are to harmonise the law with the directives of the European Union and to comply with the adopted amendments to the laws governing companies, banking and public agencies. It is also important that the amendment ensures greater transparency of the securities market. In view of the comments of the Association of Securities Exchange Members and the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, we also take into account the assurance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and submit to the National Assembly a new proposal for a novel, which should also address issues brought to the attention of the interested public. As has been said, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative and representative of the government. The purpose of the law under point one is to increase transparency or to describe the transparency of the business of the shareholders. [[...]] And we're right about the comment, the remark or the fact that it's not true. The most recent text of the bill leaves out the part that is supposed to be important for the further development of the capital market and the strengthening of the rights of small shareholders and therefore does not contain the definition of public society. On the basis of this definition, however, the operation of many companies would be transparent and credible. Thus, we estimate that the stated, declared, objective mentioned is completely contrary to the content. However, we have received quite a few opinions and opinions on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the securities market law, which we have somehow narrowed down to the following conclusions. In the Slovenian National Party, on the basis of these discussions and information, we are convinced that the reason for taking the emergency procedure is not convincing because 1.5 is long overdue, this is the first time, it is true that the deadline for implementing Directive 2003/6/EC of 12.10.2004 is indeed. However, as far as other directives are concerned, we are late anyway so as not to list all the directives for which we are late. The second content we would like to draw attention to in the Slovenian National Party is because we hope and expect that the proposals and amendments we will make will be taken into account in the envisaged or planned amendment of this Act in the autumn of this year. The principle of maintaining the level of protection of small shareholders, as I have already mentioned, from the original version of the proposal, as we have found, has disappeared precisely the part that was most important in this respect, namely the provision that public societies are those whose capital exceeds a billion tolars and which have more than 250 shareholders who are natural persons. Is the withdrawal of that proposal the result of certain lobbies or lobbying of persons from certain circles, or is it the achievement of the stated purpose of the law, which we leave to the experts and to the opinion and reflection of the preparers? The applicant would probably argue that small shareholders are effectively protected by provisions on the prevention of market manipulation, but the practice of the last ten of these is certainly not confirmed. There can be no doubt that the damage already suffered by small shareholders through a reduction in the value of shares resulting from the closure of companies far exceeds the damage that could be attributed to the above-mentioned abuses in the widest possible context. The opening of shares companies in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party or their entry into the organised market would increase the transparency of business, this is the only fact that increases transparency of business since it is already official, as you know, that an annual report should be drawn up and this summary should be published, including the accounts. Internal majority owners, management circles, would be willing to offer minority shareholders - this is a hypothetical assessment - some tolar more for their shares to prevent disclosure of information and, of course, to the financial public in their kindergartens. The protection of small shareholders is one of the key elements of all securities legislation and the withdrawal of the provision extending the range of public companies in the proposal does not, of course, lead in that direction and in that direction. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, we point out the many contradictions and we hope that the proposals and assessments that we have made will be taken into account in the preparation of the amendment of the law, which is otherwise envisaged for autumn, while at the same time we hope that it will not only be envisaged but also implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, position of the Group of Members Not present. [[...]] Cyril Pucko will present the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much, again. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this proposal of law because of our commitment to the European Union to align the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order until last 1 May of this year. This law will be supported primarily for these reasons, as the consequences of irregular harmonisation could follow, possibly by the introduction of a simple procedure to establish that the Republic of Slovenia is in breach of its contractual obligations. Further, if these conditions were met under certain assumptions, compensation could also occur in the event of the late implementation of the Directives and as a result of the suspension or active conduct of the legislator. We also support this law in order not to allow individuals and economic operators in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to sue the country for the damage caused by violations of the European legal order. Therefore, these are the reasons why we believe that this law is necessary in today’s session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. There are only 38 colleagues and colleagues coming! [[...]] Colleagues and colleagues are coming because we're going to vote next time. May I have your attention, please? Secondly, we will vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance! We're moving to 52. DESCRIPTION OF THE DAY’S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR LOADING OBLIGATIONS IN A TOTAL OF 110 MILLION EUROS LEARNED BY DARS, D. D., under the European Investment Bank for the Financing of the Slovenian Motorways Project (Sixth tranche), urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Anton Zunič will present the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u115	Dear Members and Members, Mr President-in-Office! The basic conditions of the proposed law would not be repeated because today the basic law for which we have a guarantee law before us has already been passed. But I would just add a few things that are important in our opinion in assessing this law. Credits under the proposed law are among the most favourable, which follows from the conditions, both in terms of maturity and interest rate, which is limited to EURIBOR + 13 basis points. I would add that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requires Dars to follow the effects of financing costs incurred by the government in managing public debt in the financing or debt management of Darsa. Let me just remind you that in 2003, we saved 5.4 billion SIT in the management of the single treasury system, while in the management of the wider debt of the country, there are additional financial effects in 2003 and 2004 of SIT 23 billion. The 2003 Public Debt Report, which was forwarded to the National Assembly, also includes Darsa's debts, in that part relating to the debt of the State and the other public sector. In other words, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the least indebted countries in the European Community, which is the first third of the least indebted countries, and this ensures this in a stable macro-fiscal scenario in the future. In addition, it is very important that funding costs are also among the lowest per capita and also in gross domestic product compared to other European countries. Of course, we also ask Dars to do the same in this public debt management. Thus, Dars must take care of the optimal deadline structure of the debt, must take care of the optimal currency structure of the debt, while ensuring that it is owed not only abroad but also in the domestic financial market. Both will also be contributed this year by Darsa's issued bonds, which are foreseen under the national highway construction programme and, of course, by long-term bonds. Dars will issue them for the first time this year and will continue with these issues in the future and will, of course, carry out what has been adopted in this House with regard to the national programme for the construction of motorways. Finally, I would mention that the government also requires a direct report on the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, both on the actual realisation of individual sections and on the drawbacks of individual sections. This is further formalised by the signed contract in April this year between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Dars, where this method of reporting is further formalised. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you adopt the law under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since it is motorways and there is some time left for the rapporteurs, Dr Tomaž Vidic will add something to the introductory explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The calculations of the financial and investment flows prepared about one year ago in preparation for the new national highway programme, which were made by the Economic Institute at the Faculty of Law, have made it very clear that the tolls, together with the refinancing, are sufficient to pay all the liabilities from the credits already paid and all the liabilities from the credits and bonds issued that will still need to be rented or issued to complete the motorway programme. These accounts were mainly made in the context of fairly conservative assumptions regarding traffic growth. This has now been made very clear. Last year, Dars collected 7% more tolls than planned. Most of this increase is due to an increase in traffic, something small also on the basis of faster opening of motorways, and by no means to the expense of tolls. In the last two years, the roads have been raised for less than inflation, and only roughly followed the growth of the euro. There is absolutely no claim that we already have in Slovenia the highest tolls or tolls among the highest in Europe. Greece alone has lower tolls, about the same or almost the same as Italy, while Spain, France and Portugal have substantially higher tolls, Spain around 60% higher, France around 40% and Portugal around 30%, Croatia also has higher tolls than we have in Slovenia. I'm talking, of course, about tolls at a mile away. As my colleague Zunič has already said, in the new treaties between the State and Dars, we have also established systematic control over indebtedness. Thus this table of the financial investment flow or this calculation will be repeated each year and will always be a clear picture of how and when the tolls will be sufficient to pay all the liabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The rapporteur for the committee will be President Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! That law has treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. We have devoted the most time to the question of the legislative and legal service's comments to Article 1, whether it is a matter of clarifying whether it is the principal or whether the interest and costs of the loan and the question of the amount of the late interest rate are covered in the amount of EUR 110 million. When these two matters were clarified at the Committee's own meeting, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 to delete the first indent because it is not necessary and to delete the title of the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! From what I have said, it follows that the law so prepared is good enough for the State Assembly to adopt it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Mamić. Aloyz Sok, position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I have already presented the position of New Slovenia at point 47. That's where we talked about consent to this loan, and now it's a guarantee. However, in view of what the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance has to say again, I would like to say the following. The government repeatedly reiterates that Slovenia is the least indebted country among the new members or among all EU members. Of course, you don't consider the guarantees to be state debt. This was also the response to the Infrastructure Committee when we asked the Secretary of State. Second. Roads in Slovenia. If you compare tolls in Austria and Italy, of course, they are among the highest. In Austria, you can drive 10 days on all highways for 10 days. In Italy you pay a distance from Nova Gorica to Trieste less than 1 euro. As far as the toll is concerned, of course we all know that, and there is no need to explain it, especially to us from the northeastern part of the country. You have put in place systemic control and, of course, we agree with Members, and we welcome this. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that Mrs Silva Jamnik, the State Auditor, has identified some shortcomings in the revision of the construction of the Blagovica-Sentjakob section and that her statement was, in fact, that Dars needed a continuous audit, constant control. Here today, the president of the Infrastructure Committee also indicated this possibility, expressing his desire to have more control over the national assembly. Unfortunately, however, honourable Members and Members, here I must warn you, when we passed the Dars Act, an amendment was tabled by New Slovenia to include a representative of the National Assembly in the Dars Supervisory Committee. Such amendments were rejected by the government and the government, and you did not wish to do so, but today you see for yourself that it would be necessary for the National Assembly to have a greater review over Dars, because Slovenia's national highway construction programme is in fact certain, and also in New Slovenia we think it is not the story of the construction of Slovenian roads, but rather the story of Dars. Slovenian highways are being built too slowly. Let us not be misled this year, when the traffic will still be passed down ten kilometres of highways, when the planned opening of even the most difficult section of Troy and so on, we must find that every year they are not elections. If they were, Slovenian roads would probably be built by now. However, every year there are no elections and I am concerned about what will happen at this pace of borrowing and planning next year or the next two years. At that time the construction of the highway will stop again for a while, and today we see what the situation is, how many dead are on our roads and, of course, there are also objective reasons to do so, not only subjective, but also objective conditions due to the bad roads we have in this country. After all, we can all figure out that at least accidents occur on highways, because in highway traffic, individual participants, such as pedestrians and cyclists, are excluded. I know that the problem is and in New Slovenia we are aware that money is getting smaller, but let me repeat, when we consider the national programme in Novi Slovenija we proposed that some sections of highways build differently to build with the help of a non-profit concession. This was not done in our opinion, for the road between Slivnica and Gruškov could be one of such highway sections that could be built with concession money. Of course, the particular issue is the highway section through Pomurje. Let me get this straight. When the highway programme was adopted, fellow Members from Pomur agreed with the national programme, but today we can see that Pomurke and Pomurci disagree and that roads on this part of Slovenia are being closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you. Leopold Grošelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we accept the conclusion that only the revenue from Dars would not be possible to implement the national programme and, of course, to organise the expected dynamics of the construction of motorways in Slovenia. This is why Dars for the construction of these sections is also supposed to provide 32% of these funds to Beach and Hrastje from their own resources, and 68% of them are supposed to be provided with credit and securities. This projected debt of up to 26 billion will also provide for the issuance of securities, so-called financial loans and loans to the European Investment Bank, as already presented. This will also make full use of the European Investment Bank’s credit funds to finance the construction of the Bus - Hrastje motorways. It is also acceptable for us only to speak in the area of the proposal for a law that the proposal for a guarantee law will also contribute to the stable indebtedness of Darsa for a balanced structure and also to the separation of resources that do not burden resources for the construction of a highway programme during an intensive construction period, which is until 2010. And not hope, of course, it is also necessary to mention what the Secretary of State has also established that the European Investment Bank’s loans are among the most favourable long-term credit resources compared to other terms of the lenders, in particular in terms of the level of the credit, as well as the level of the interest rate. As I have already mentioned, our Members and Members of the United Nations Group will support the law by which the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the lease of that loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Groschel. Bogdan Barovic has the floor, the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Valentin Pohorec. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we gave and gave our consent. We'll probably make a guarantee by now. And to repeat too many words that have already been spoken, maybe even heard, doesn't make any sense, though. See, one strange enchantment circle, which we would like to draw attention to in the Slovenian National Party, appears. I have rarely heard very accurate data that with the development of the highway program in 1993 was planned - I will speak on a round - 300 km of roads that are supposed to cost billions of dollars. Today, the state of the last national programme is to build 570 km of roads - I speak round - so one and a half times more than was envisaged in 1993 for the price of 5 billion, that is to say, 5 times the price. That's just information. Let's say it's the market. But parallel events when Dars becomes an economic society, and it would be right and good to create profits, but once again it can be questioned whether this profit is real because of good and quality work or whether it is profit which is the result - but here of course we ask ourselves - of the kindness and generosity of this country, which Darsu gave us after our sum, but I will say less than more, about something more than 20 consents and guarantees. And last but not least, regardless of the manner of payment, on a favourable interest rate, I do not know what else, it would be very good for the government to draw the line once and say, so far, we have lodged or given guarantees, give loans of so much and so much, and if anything - God forbid that would happen - if, of course, we are citizens, taxpayers who will also fulfill all the guarantees. In order not to misinterpret the position of the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues. It's true, but even in the family, we all want to have, I don't know if we're four in the family, every car we own, but sometimes we don't, and of course we all want to. It is also the wish of the Slovenian National Party that we will build this road cross and road network, that we will travel safely on the road, that we will do something for it, as we have already mentioned in rail traffic problems, that we will work a little bit more cost-effective with our roads, which, if, hand to heart, eat $5 billion, it is not a small amount. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not object to the guarantee that we are giving together again today, but we reiterate that all that is said is true on the basis of real data, and that it is last time for the government to decide first what and how it intends to build motorways, either with a privatised or redesigned company, or with its own, given that it gives a number of consents and guarantees to which it will have to be held accountable. This is a warning to all of us and to all of us who are likely to meet again in the coming period. As it is said, in the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, we will not object, but seriously note that these consents and guarantees have been a little too much and that we need to be a little more careful.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Ciril Pucko is a member of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this law, especially for the reason that the Slovenian motorways project could run smoothly by drawing on these funds and that the proposal of this law or guarantee would help to secure Dars' debt with a balanced structure and efficiency of resources that do not burden resources for the construction of motorways during the intensive construction period, that is until 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Ivan Bozič, position of the SLS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In our parliamentary group, we have no problem not to support the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Darsa liabilities, d.d., from the credit paid to the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways [[VI.]] Indeed, it would be strange, since we have a country, the Republic of Slovenia, to support the construction of motorways and to support it as well. Without good roads, there can be no living and transport in modern Europe without modern means of transport. Sometimes we get sick of talking so much about how things are being built too slowly. However, in this Chamber we have adopted conclusions and laws that we have increased the volume of construction by 50 to almost 100%. When you comment on each national programme, colleagues and colleagues, what else should be added, what kind of connections and bridges, what kind of bypasses. In addition, we have spent an average of 2 billion tolars on state roads in the construction of highways. Those who do not have highways, many places, many valleys in Slovenia are, which will never have highways, and not because of the damn desire of many, especially in the Sočsko valley, the highway certainly does not belong, but we were deprived of it. Those of you who get highways, be aware that you get more than we get who don't get, but we will support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, we're voting on the law. There are 46 of us present, 37 votes against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 53. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia for commitments under the 20 million euro loan facility to be leased by the Republic of Slovenia for regional development and the preservation of the business of the Slovenian State in the context of the European Investment Bank - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mr Cyril Pucko has the floor as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that proposal to be a parent labour force. In this respect, we have given the highest priority to the issues raised at the previous point, namely the question of the content of this amount, whether, in addition to the principal, they are included within this amount of interest, and the level of the interest rate on the one hand, and in particular the question of what can be financed from this credit. In doing so, we have adopted, on the basis of the explanation of the Government's representatives, a certain amendment to which the Group of Members tabled an amendment to Article 1 in order to extend the funding possibilities for individual actions contained in the single programme document. I propose that we raise this issue in the debate, and in this way also propose that we possibly correct the amended Article 1 of the Law by amendment tabled by the group of Members with the first signed Irmo Pavlinič Krebs. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that, in the light of what we have said, we adopt this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. Mag. Janez Drobnič, New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today, guarantees are mainly granted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out any of these projects. For many, this can mean a bright day, for many who know well, it can also be a black day for Slovenia, for all the guarantees and all the credits we will rent will have to be paid someday. And it will probably be even harder to pay for them under such management than it is now. We just got, yesterday, the day before yesterday, information about what's going on with health insurance. 30 billion deficits and, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right way. This address, i.e. to rent a loan to promote regional development and preserve population, is, of course, very beautiful and promises a lot. The explanatory note also states that this will increase the competitiveness of the business sector, development, export structure, human resource development and employment, population conservation, enterprise development, investment promotion, in particular with a technological background or with a technological component. At the same time, information has been given that the existing public fund that will hire credits no longer has the appropriate money for property transformation, as money is spent. That's the reality. There I would like to draw your attention to how, in fact, funding in practice takes place. One is the story of borrowing credit, providing funds, the criteria under which it will be shared - this is written - which are the goals that we will achieve - which we mentioned earlier - but how it is done in practice. An invitation to tender for the promotion of tourist destinations was issued in May. I have already warned that in the question of the Member States. The call was aimed at the development of tourist destinations, in particular at those in Slovenia that are neglected, which are underdeveloped. Then it became clear from the allocation process that these funds would mainly go to those places that are already rich. Four key destinations were chosen: Portorož, Kranjska Gora, Ptujska spas and Maribor Pohorje. However, the funds were not allocated to those who really needed the money. These are places that have some designs for tourism development but do not have adequate capital. And these destinations and/or these environments should be provided with funds. The funds are allocated according to the system, the first to arrive. Yes, of course, until the funds are exhausted, so stated. Who's behind these reports? Large capital groups associated with the ruling elite. Who are the applicants can be clearly exposed. Four regions were selected. A certain part of these funds will go as a substitute to ensure national programmes. It is therefore not an added value to be provided from the development and international funds, but what should already be from the national programmes from the national funds. Of course, there is nothing national resources there because the soybeans are wasted. In this way, Slovenia will become a net payer instead of a net payee if these funds are not properly used. It's actually a story that takes place in the background of a lease, say, such a loan. Of course, because there is no money, you forced us to provide this guarantee because the stakes are empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. The loan hired by the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for regional development and preservation of the settlement of the Slovenian countryside, as proposed by law, was not clearly stated in the original text how these funds were to be distributed. The legislative and legal text of the law has improved in the debate of the Committee and also in the wake of warnings, so it is clear why the Fund should be in debt and why or why the State will be willing to make a guarantee, which would mean that we will have a clear review of where and how these funds will be allocated or who those final beneficiaries of these funds will be. We would point out, however, that in the debate on the adoption of the tourism development strategy, we have already pointed out that tourism is also part of regional development or that tourism can also develop and reduce, in fact, the differences between developed and underdeveloped areas. At the time, it was not well understood. Today, we can see that this law also applies to our thinking, so that tourism is also involved in regional development, which is an important shift in the Ministry of Economy or in the tourism sector which is responsible for implementing the tourism development strategy. The measures mentioned by the amendments are, of course, clearly recorded and eliminated the thousands of shortcomings of the law. So, these measures have already been written down in committee discussions. The amendment tabled by MEPs and Members also adds some other indents, which we also consider to be meaningful and to follow programme document 2.4, 2.6 and, of course, to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Therefore, it is very important to complement, as tourism destinations also make use of these funds for entrepreneurship and improving competitiveness. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that we expect that in the invitation to tender, it will also be possible to run with non-tourist areas, and that this will really help to resolve regional differences in Slovenia, and in particular we have in mind the funds that are and will be available for the lease of this loan. We believe that, after such implementation and such complementary content, the law would be acceptable and, as such, we would support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Position of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! A very interesting discussion was the proposal for a Republic of Slovenia guarantee for a 20 million-euro loan obligation and the tenant was supposed to be a public fund. At the time, we had several questions in the Slovenian National Party about the level of the funds, the interest rate, the destination of the debt and so on. Again today, I think with all the consents and guarantees - once again: it seems to me that we are not careful enough about all the consents and guarantees we give. First time. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask what is - I say in general, not specifically for maintaining population in substance, but in general - with promises of a very promising and new member of the EU, Slovenia, and of a net recipient in two years. Because in the assessment of the state of the guarantee we are talking about co-financing activities from the European Structural Funds, the use of European Structural Funds funds and from here we come to a public fund, which is supposed to choose and allocate funds for regional structural policy acquired by the EU, but which does not have resources - I mean, from here on out for us, forgive me, you can think what you want, a very strange story begins. From all the resources we are supposed to have from Europe, we are suddenly using a public fund, and it no longer has its resources, and now, if it wants to participate somewhere, it needs credit; and for this credit, of course, the country should guarantee it again. And the essence of the story is that then the public credit fund will again be committed to co-financing projects, under more favourable conditions than commercial providers offer, so that - I don't know. EUR 20 million in four tranches after two different interest rates, which we do not even know which will be fixed, whether it will be fixed or variable, for which part it will be, or what part it will be. These are facts that are or are not written, those you know who have read the reports; but indeed, in the Slovenian National Party we say that this is no longer a joke. It says that the funds for repayment of the loan will be provided by the public fund, the financial implications will not be for the country - the budget of the Republic of Slovenia - unless the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for a limited loan would be redeemed and the state budget would be affected. Now, just logical thinking. We guarantee a loan to the public fund, but the public fund will settle the loan, unless it does, but the state will. But the public fund, we could see earlier that he no longer had the resources he was collecting, that he was broke, and that's why he took the credit. And now he's gonna do what? On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, I am simply reminding you that we are aware of our decision to confirm this. Today we have confirmed our agreement and two guarantees, if I am not mistaken, or three, and let's add up these guarantees, and by chance - let's say again, God forbid - something happens; from where the country will collect this money because it guarantees, guarantees, guarantees. He guarantees a public fund that doesn't have money, and he should have it, which we don't even know why he doesn't have it anymore. We are not exactly excited to give guarantees in the Slovenian National Party, but because we do not want someone pointing fingers at us in the next period to say, but you were against - because this term is beautiful - rural development, you were coming to rural development, we will not oppose it either. Is there another question that my respected colleague mentioned earlier - what will happen in the scratch? About that one other time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Next time. Mag. Andrej Vizjak is now the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Of course, it is difficult to oppose the idea of the law itself, which aims to somehow boost support for regional development and the preservation of the settlement of the Slovenian countryside with measures not least mentioned, but which raises one issue related to it. First of all, we do not have properly regulated legislation on regional development in Slovenia. I am very sad that the marriage material that is supposed to provide some other solutions has been withdrawn from the meeting for a reason that there is not enough time to accept it to the end, but at the same time we have put into the first reading of the marriage of these same-sex partners, and this has had another weight. This is said to be the same-sex partners - before regional development, which, I don't know, is very foreign to me. I would like to say, however, that the practical effects of spending both in this public fund and in the field are unknown. Developmental differences in Slovenia are increasing. This is shown by a number of indicators. In particular, it is a challenging indicator of unemployment, as the differences in the unemployment rate between the central Slovenian region and, of course, all others have not decreased in the last five years. That is why I am concerned about the impact of spending these funds on a legal basis which is inadequate, which we all know is inadequate, and not least, which was also the reason why a new marriage solution was found in the procedure. I also have great concerns about the very effectiveness of the functioning of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The big question is how many state development funds are being set up by the public fund itself and for the procedures and everything related to the placement of money for regional development and rural conservation. How short is this material money, and how much of this money is allocated to the operation of these funds? There is a major problem with efficiency and, of course, not least with regard to the volume of regional development funds. Big problem. And I don't know, that's why I'm a little worried about our coming generations when they have to repay these loans. I would not worry if these credits were placed in the right place and for an effective purpose, but I am afraid that they will be, on the basis of the barren legislation or inadequate legislation currently in force in this segment, which has not provided answers to how to reduce regional development differences after Slovenia - and again new money for the same story. Of course, it is difficult, as I have already begun, but I would like to point out, on behalf of the Group of Members, the inefficiency of the use of these funds, because the effects of spending these resources can only be measured by reducing differences in Slovenia, not by increasing differences in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the word, the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u141	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Fellow Members, fellow Members. It is indeed sad that we are listening when we receive, I will say, an extremely important provision to enable more coherent regional development in terms of additional resources to the local communities for the preparation of projects with which they will run for the European funds of the Structural Funds, and not least for the co-financing of projects. This is what this regulation says, of course, who has read it and knows that coherent regional development is evolving through the means and principles that we adopt in this national assembly. And this marriage is one of those. It also has an address on this subject, and it is unfortunate that we have not adopted a law on coherent regional development. Anyone who knows this matter accurately, and in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we know it, we also know that the tools that the law brings in its contents - and I hope that after the autumn elections we will accept it - bring exactly this law, but partially, in the work. It speaks of the Fund helping local communities and providing funds for the preparation of business zone projects, better tourist destinations, etc. That's what this rule is talking about! And talking about coherent regional development and not providing it through support for such regulations and measures is, of course, purely contravening. And the European Investment Bank is the European Union's financial institution, which is dedicated to financing projects that support European policy for economic and social development. The role of this bank is defined in the 1999 Council Regulation, on the basis of which the European Investment Bank is involved in the preparation of financial plans at all stages with regard to the needs of the individual country, the objective and the programme that the State wants to achieve. After 2001, the European Investment Bank developed a new approach through which it participates in co-financing projects under programmes defined by each country under a single programming document and those loans are managed by national or regional authorities in accordance with the principles applicable to allocations from the Structural Funds. And since we, for all of us, have no known reasons for regional authorities that could be the bearers of these financial actions, we are, of course, trying, through existing institutions, to prepare ourselves for the process of drawing on funds and helping local communities that, on the other hand, bear these actions through this regulation. And the state does not work through this regulation as a guarantee to the public fund, but this further aid to the institutions, that is to the individual companies that will run, and to the individual local communities that, within the framework of the joint regional programme that have been working for several years, will recognise certain projects as co-financed and, together with the resources of the Slovenian state budget, the European Structural Funds and the resources of local communities, will, of course, put them all in the environment with a view to coherent regional development. And to record a fund, which in this case performs one way of functioning that intermediate second degree, which is due to the political arrogance of opposition parties we fail to build, is pure controversy. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are pleased to support this law or to support it with a profound attitude to serve coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Even Ivan Christmas gets the word. He will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello to both the secretaries of the government, colleagues and colleagues! And I'm probably going to take one last part in this term today and start a little humorous. Report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the proposal for a Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for a loan amounting to EUR 200 million, leased by the Republic of Slovenia’s Public Fund for Regional Development and Preservation of the Settlement of Slovenian Rural with the European Investment Bank ZPJRRRR-Necessary Procedure - EPA 1394/3. Did you notice a mistake? On the front page of Rapporteur 94 says we're talking about 200 million, we're actually talking about 20 million. Before that, Mr Bernick said that we should all read the exact words here - we do not read! There's a document here that we don't really read! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. Also on the Committee on Finance, it was very well explained what this money would be for, and those of us who supported the budget for 2004 and 2005 also voted that we would hire such loans as well as make guarantees. However, the Committee's supervision of the financial budget has the duty to punish the government if it goes beyond that limit. Everything else is talking about the next election. Five million euros will be made available under this law this year, and 7 million and a half will be available for the second year and 2006 We have complemented Article 1 on the Committee on Finance, and today we have also received the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to expand this third paragraph, and we will support that. That's how we made a deal, made a deal, and now I don't know what's wrong. There is too little work in regional development, too much red tape, we will have to fight red tape, not to hire the credits that this country and those that it has hired - they have always returned them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. Amendments to the bill are tabled: Article 1 - a group of Members with the first signed Irmo Pavlinič Krebs - which is a single amendment to explain it itself and Article 5 of the LDS, United List and DeSUS. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 1. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u145	Mr Vice-President, once again, thank you for your word. I miss the representatives of the ministries, my fellow Members, because I am sure they will agree with the explanation I will try to make on behalf of my fellow Members here. The basic text of the law, as the chairman of the committee had previously identified, had been received by the legislative and legal service, namely the first article, concerns. Also in the work where the legislative and legal service says and believes that the proposed law, i.e. Article 1, should record the purpose for which the funds provided by the European Investment Bank are to be used. In this part, Article 1 was flawed. If we look at the explanation given by the government at the time of the proposal for a law and the legislature itself notes when it says that the answers to those questions are found in the introductory presentation of the bill and for which there is no enforcement in Article 1. However, while explaining the proposal, it is undeniable that the purpose of borrowing credits for actions under priority number 1 of the single programming document entitled Promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness and a single programming document under this heading, measure 1 provides for four measures: promoting the development of an innovation environment, tourist destinations, improving the support environment for entrepreneurship, economic infrastructure and public services. Thus, in the case of a consistent supplement in accordance with what the government says in the explanatory memorandum of the law, it should be stated in the latter part of Article 1 that the credit funds referred to in paragraph 1 may be used in accordance with the purposes defined in the Single Programme Document for the period 2004-2006, and for, of course, in the single programming document, the four indents where these measures were written are attributed. Mr Strmšnik, however, focused on the Committee's question on the answer, which are those measures, on two measures which are already underway. After talking to him, of course, he made a mistake here. Of course, we have previously interviewed the Minister and the Secretary of State and, of course, we both recognise that there was no reasonable reason for the two actions to just register, not all four. We therefore propose that, due to the consistency of the regulation, all four measures, which are also otherwise defined in the single programming document as priority number 1. This is the only way we think that this amendment, if adopted, would be consistent with the Government's explanation for the basic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u146	Anyone else want a word? Leopold Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'll back the amendment. However, as has been explained, this last part is saddened and most responsible, which is now in the role of Deputy Director of this Public Fund, to express and defend his position on the Committee as well. And that's what wakes up some mistrust, and also the debate that Mr. Visjak had. That's it. In fact, I also voted that only those two indents should be listed in the area where the money will be paid off, to know which projects and programmes you can run for, but not to leave open, as God will give, so that these funds will be shared. That's it. I will correct myself, and I will also support this amendment despite a different view.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Once again, I give the word Irma Pavlinič Krebs for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I apologize, but I would like to explain that there was only a written error at the first indent. "Tourist destinations" should be deleted. Mr Grošelj, on a question which I, of course, have asked the competent ones, they immediately concluded that there is no reasonable reason why the possibility of using these credit funds should not be used in other calls for action. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we will move to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 with the correction made by the proposer, namely that the first indent reads: "A measure to promote the development of the innovation environment..." And that's what the comma is behind. We will vote on that. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment of Article 1. Some of you missed the vote. I call on my colleagues and colleagues who are close to coming to the hall. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention, please? We are voting second time on the amendment to Article 1. Third time we'll vote in 10 minutes. At 3:43 p.m., we'll vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u151	This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 1. Please check your voting devices. Can we vote for the third time? May I have your attention, please? Third time we vote on the amendment to Article 1. There are 56 of us present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment tabled by the LDS Members' Groups, the United List and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment to Article 5. There are 59 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to third reading. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 5 of the amended Law were adopted at second reading. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Since the government or the legal and regulatory service has not warned me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent, we will move on to a decision on the law. We're voting on the law. There are 58 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 54. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - CONSTRUCTIONALLY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BREAKDOWN LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the government, Secretary of State, Mr. Karel Erjavec, a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members! With this amendment of the law, we would like in particular to increase the effectiveness of procedures in the case of offences. Let me stress in particular that this law does not change the organisation of offences, that the organisation of offences remains the same as provided for by the Act on Offences, which will apply 1.1.2005. This means that the Senate will be included in all four higher courts, while the authorities of the first stage will be included in the District Courts. So there's no fear about it. However, we are instituting for a faster handling of cases of offences before the courts at the first stage of the so-called shortened procedure, which is summarised under the applicable institute of criminal law under the law on criminal proceedings. The point is that in cases where a fine, a reminder or a penalty point is provided, we do not want to withdraw the driver's licence to introduce a reduced procedure. In the context of these amendments, we also provide a legal basis for the organisation of an on-call service. It is necessary to know that in the system of regular courts the duty station is provided for only in district courts but not in district courts. And the project group that is responsible for the implementation of this law on offences has identified certain shortcomings in transitional provisions, and we are also addressing these shortcomings through this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you, Government Representative, Secretary of State. The Internal Policy Committee considered the draft law as a parent labour force. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? The chairman of the committee has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not repeat the words that Mr Karel Erjavec said on behalf of the proposer. Similar were also said at a meeting of the Committee, where we have also heard, in addition to the written opinion, we also received some oral warnings from the representative of the legislative and legal service, which stressed that some future solutions in the current legislation would have to be reconsidered and, of course, tried to do better. The debate, however, stressed the common position of all members and members of the Committee that it would not be prudent to amend legislation in this organisational sense - what was initially envisaged - mainly because, from the first stage, we had received quite a warning, to say so, of judges for offences, that such conduct would not be good. Second. It has been pointed out that too many regulations define these offences and will have to be approached more seriously once and for all, to say so. Third. It has been pointed out that some types of criminal policy should be developed for each area, so that, for example, if we start transport, police officers do not deal with marginals, but only with those offences or especially with those offences that have serious consequences; these are traffic accidents, etc. In addition, the discussion also discussed the issue of costs related to the implementation of this law, and after a common assessment, the conclusion is that the costs, if they are already nominally increased, are expected to result in greater efficiency, which is, of course, in the current state of affairs, when 12 thousand cases, for example, in the Republic Senate for Offences, are obsolete annually. Thank you very much. And, of course, the law has been endorsed by the committee, it is also proposed to you, it has not adopted any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank Maximilian Lavrine for this report. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Private Cheligoy has the floor. Position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! At first glance, amendments to the Act on Offences for Small Change are being made, but the content of these should be taken under close consideration. In recent times, the reform system, part of which seems to be subject to the entire system of criminal law and the offences are not exempted. More and more, the perpetrators of the offences appear to have been withdrawn from some of the basic institutes that provide legal certainty in the criminal and legal protection proceedings. In some ways, it may be justified to introduce a reduced procedure when deciding and issuing a judgment. The need for a rapid procedure dictates efficiency and reduction of judicial backlogs, but we must first see whether this is true. The possibility of an objection to a judgment issued in a reduced procedure, which is permitted by a proposal for a law, does not speak in favour. The consequences may be quite reversed; the increase belongs to the already burdened court. Short-term procedures are certainly more appropriate in the infringement procedure than in the procedure initiated for the purpose of a criminal act. In the view of the parliamentary group, the criminal order following a reduced procedure in criminal law is not the most successful solution. The essence of the procedure for issuing a criminal order is that the court does not carry out the main proceedings. We find it most controversial, however, that the chief prosecutor has the opportunity to propose a sentence of six months' imprisonment if the accused is brought before him. In the event of violations, this dilemma is eliminated because the new regulation of criminal law does not know the prison sentence anymore. However, we need to ask ourselves on what criteria unlawful conduct should be classified as a category or a crime or an offence. The dilemma is already old and remains unresolved by the adopted, valid but not yet applicable law on offences. Perhaps it would be best to allow offenders to have all the standards and procedural guarantees we know in criminal law. This is also the case with the judgments of the European Court of Justice, but the proposed regulation is moving ever further away from it. In the DeSUS Group, we do not deny the problem of the judiciary, and these are judicial backlogs, but it is true that the transfer of criminal cases to regular courts will not solve this problem. In the event of a reform of the law of offences, it was one of the possibilities for the network of law enforcement authorities to be transformed into specialised courts. We have not done so and only time will show whether the reform has been successful or not. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that the proposed changes that we will support will be useful, probably mainly in terms of efficiency and speed, but there is also a need for effective judicial protection. Otherwise, the functions of the applicant and the judge shall be merged in one body, which is certainly not in accordance with the principle of equality of power in the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Majda Zupan has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences is intended to make necessary changes and additions to ensure that the organs for offences are properly transferred to the General Courts of Justice, providing for the replacement of the existing bodies, namely, the Judge for Offences and the Senate for Offences, the Courts of General Competence and the Higher Courts, and the establishment of criminal authorities, as new types of organs for criminal proceedings. Such a reorganisation should allow for a faster handling of cases before the courts at first instance. The current Institute of Criminal Procedure in the Criminal Procedure Act should also become a model for a new Institute of Decision-making and the issue of a judgment in a reduced procedure. The procedure is simplified because it no longer provides for the condition that the mandatory proposal must be based on the direct personal determination of the official or on official data. The novelty is also intended to address shortcomings in the application of the rules in the enforcement of sanctions imposed; in particular, monetary penalties are meant here. 1.1.2005, when we begin to apply the Offences Act, in view of the expected number of pending cases to be taken over by the courts, it may be that the fines would not have been carried out because the rules to date would no longer have been applied in accordance with the provisions. The decision to reorganise in the area of offences was, in some ways, political. The National Assembly followed the proposals in this direction and also adopted them. The lobbying within the judges has been considerable and the question is whether there is no centralisation and whether such a move will be better from a professional point of view. Will the work of judges be more successful after such a reorganisation? Indeed, judicial backlogs are a subject that has been going on for years and years, and the right to a trial within a reasonable time is still too often neglected. The transfer of a huge number of cases to the courts can mean a real collapse. Are preparations in this direction, and can the representatives of the judiciary assure us that there will be no further problems? We anticipate that the courts, particularly the higher courts, where the maximum level is to be foreseen, will need to be strengthened additionally, and this will also entail higher costs. Will the new regime actually lead to a more effective prosecution of offences? We know that organisation has not so far provided the most effective work in this area, since as many as 12,000 cases have been obsolete annually in the Senate, the state has been able to erase less than 10% of the fine and the costs of the procedure. It is also important to point out to the legal and regulatory services that there has been a lack of a criminal policy in relation to self-employed professions, so that a certain circle of people will fall out because the solution in the tax procedure only binds to the debtors. In this direction, a change and addition are certainly expected, and it is probably not just this change. It is true that everything cannot be predicted to be accurate, but we should be much more prepared to adopt laws in order to avoid new amendments. We did not support the basic law on offences in our parliamentary group because we did not agree with such a reorganisation, which was somehow imposed by certain circles. At the time of the adoption of the Act on Offences in December 2002, we wondered whether the solutions offered by the ruling coalition were well thought out and whether this meant yet another reform for the judiciary. Police officers, inspectors and customs officers and others, as criminal authorities, will take on a greater burden, as they will not only detect but also sanction them. However, they are qualified enough not to see their inexplicable abuse of authority deteriorate. In our parliamentary group of novels, which we have also not broken - the novels will not turn on the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President. The Group of Members will support the amendment and amendment of the Act on Offences. The proposal to introduce a reduced procedure is useful, without it the decision on offences would certainly be more complex and one important novelty would allow for, for example, clearer cases to be issued without a hearing would not be enforced. However, at the time of the adoption of the law, and this time at the time of the novelty, we have warned and warned that everything must be done to avoid a new change, the new organisation has led the courts to frustrate cases, as the President of the Supreme Court also tells us that there is such a danger. Please, let's recommend, let's advise, that this doesn't happen, if this happens, that we should consider the implementation of the law itself, because already the court in question with cases that can't be resolved by way of solutions or by way of solutions, and the old backlogs remain unresolved, I wouldn't argue that, for one more reason, there is an increase in the scope of the new cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues. Now our common goal has been at a number of meetings of the internal policy committees with the judiciary, and, of course, enough debates, in the direction of speeding up judicial procedures, how to reduce the many processes that are taking the proposal, some so long as they even expire. We have received an offer, this offer is in the bill, I am specifically talking about a reduced procedure. We will not object in the Slovenian National Party, but a respected colleague had a previous interlocutor in front of me or the first speaker today, and it may happen that because of the reduced proceedings we will significantly reduce the case, but it may happen on the basis of the accused's ability to submit an objection to him or to the legal representative or advocate, but it may happen that the case will be even more. But, as they say, "who doesn't take any chances doesn't profit." We will try, see if this change will bring what we expect of it, and we will probably talk about it if we follow the goals it sets. As the spokeswoman said just before me, we would also draw attention to the opinion issued by the Legal and Legislative Service, which is also related to the claim I made a little earlier that there are some uncertainties as to the validity and application of this law. However, I think that, or at least that, or at least that, we, colleagues on the committee, respect the opinions of the legislative and legal services if they are legally justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Maximilian Lavrinc will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The LDS will support the proposed amendment of the law. This is a reduced procedure in this criminal procedure, so to speak, which should have helped exactly what everyone is pointing out, namely: the law is a simplification of the procedure and, of course, faster action. We have, of course, thus, supported that first amendment, because we believe that our legislation must somehow be brought closer to European legislation, which was the first reason then and now. The second is that, in the case of the law on offences and even in the event of offences, it cannot be pretended that thousands and thousands of offences are obsolete, that they are offences where, for example, customs offences where large funds are seized, that the country is then prosecuted and, of course, is also paying damages. All of this requires that we take the areas of wrongdoing seriously. It's actually such an initial step. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to make a person not to say cleaning, but to review all the rules governing these offences and penalties in them, to identify their social danger and, of course, in cases where matters are of minor importance, to put an end to such offences simply, as it is not expected that Slovenian people would start acting differently, so that they would not complain that they would not sue and so on. Unfortunately, in a way, we are a people of justice and very few things in the courts are resolved differently than the final judgment - if we take this into account, of course, the situation. For example, in America, where a few percent are actually solved in this way, then the situation is completely understandable. However, we trust the proposer and the current solutions, so we believe that the proposal is good and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. If anyone else is near the hall, I invite him to the vote. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank Secretary of State Erjavac very much for his cooperation. We're moving to 55. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON CERTIFICATE OF THE INFORMAL TEXTS OF LEGISLATION. The official consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion, as we have already done in this reference. Under A, B and Č the above conclusions, "the officially purified text of the law shall be confirmed" shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 44 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the official texts of the Feed Law, the State Administration Act, the Road Transport Act and the Higher Education Act have been confirmed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The next item on the agenda will be chaired by Mr President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 56. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia: the appointment of a public information officer, the appointment of a second Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposal by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of candidates for judicial office, the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the appointment of the Advocate General of the Republic of Slovenia, the appointment of a National Council for Culture, the discharge and appointment of a member of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the appointment of members of the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren’s Fund; the proposals by the Commission for a decision on the appointment of the President and three members of the State Audit Commission and the proposal for the discharge of the judge and the judge of the Labour and Social Court of Ljubljana. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on individual proposals, in order as stated in the course of time, and in order of order of order of debates which you have received for today's session. In doing so, I would like to inform you in particular that we will hold secret votes on the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time after the final discussions on both proposals. Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of an authority to access information of a public nature. The President of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar as Commissioner for Access to Public Information for a period of five years. I ask the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Dr Matjaž Nahtigala, if he wishes to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u167	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The procedure carried out and the proposal by the President of the Republic for an authority to access information of a public nature has been presented in detail and fully justified on a mandate-holder committee, so perhaps just one sentence to refresh the memory. The candidate is a graduate lawyer with a national legal exam, currently performs the tasks of the Director of the Centre for Education and Information in the Supreme Court and is also an official under the law on access to information of a public nature for all 66 courts in the Republic of Slovenia. In her legal career and other career, she has also been educated all the time from the areas covered by her application and is also familiar with the media, as she is also a longtime journalist and TV host. At the same time, it has also carried out a number of professional training abroad in the field of public information, and we propose that it be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary-General. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. After the announcement you made, he's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija. [[He doesn't want to.]] Comrade Franz Sušnik, SDS. [[He doesn't want to.]] LDS representative. [[He doesn't want to.]] Franci Rokavec, no. The debate will be followed by a debate between Members of Parliament. Igor Štemberger has the floor first. He's not here. Comrade Franci Rokavec does not want, colleague Janez Podobnik is not present. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar as Commissioner for Access to Public Information for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposals for decisions on the election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly six proposals for election to a judicial function: two District Judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and Kranj, three District Judges at the District Court in Kranj, Maribor and Lenart, and a Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented proposals for conclusions to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, she has a colleague, Maja Zupan, who just quits her job. My friend Franz Sušnik? [[He's not here.]] Representative of the LDS Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. A colleague of Igor Štemberger signed up. [[He's not here.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Trebec Debeljak at the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Another time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Majda Lušina to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Third time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalia Prepeluh to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Fourth time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Dr. Boštjan Zalar as a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Presence 53, 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Fifth. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Zale Arnus to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. 53 present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Six. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mirjana Pintarič to the District Court of Justice in Lenart. We're voting. Fifty present, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal by the Government concerning the appointment of the Advocate General of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Lucian Bembič as Advocate General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. I ask the representative of the government if he wishes to explain the proposal further. There is no representative, it is said that no one wants to explain the proposal. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Colleague Majda Zupan has been reported. He doesn't want to. My friend Franz Sušnik? He's not here. LDS Group doesn't want to. My friend Franci Rokavec? He doesn't want to. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Igor Stemberger? He's not here. My friend Franci Rokavec? He doesn't want to. There's no counterpart. My friend Kangler? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Lucian Bembič as Advocate General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. We're voting. 53 present, 44 to one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal by the Government for the appointment of the National Council for Culture. The proposal for the appointment of the National Council for Culture was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the assembly. There is no government representative, the proposal was treated by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. A representative of the government is on his way. Secretary of State, I ask you, do you want a word? He doesn't want to. The following is a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, first of all by colleagues Marija Ana Tisovic, Nova Slovenija. He doesn't want to. There's no friend of Fran's. LDS won't. Comrade Rokavec - he doesn't want to discuss it. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My friend Stemberger's not here. My friend Kangler doesn't want to. My friend Skull doesn't want to. Comrade Jerovšek - he's not here. Comrade Podobnik - he's not here either. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for decisions on the appointment of the National Council for Culture. We're voting. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Yaša Zląbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u169	I want to know what the names of these people are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u170	Apparently, there was so much material on the bench that it wasn't transparent enough. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, in favour of 45 votes against one or one Member. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal by the Government concerning the discharge and appointment of a member of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't see a government representative, so he doesn't want to explain the proposal. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups: Alojz Sok, Nova Slovenija. He doesn't want to. There's no friend of mine. LDS won't. My friend Rokavec, he wants to. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Our Group of Members will oppose this proposal for a decision. Indeed, it is the dismissal of a member of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the former Secretary of State, Mr Potočnik, and the replacement of Mr Strlett with the Secretary of State. Articles 5 and 21 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests do not say anywhere that the Government must also make such a proposal when the Secretary of State is dismissed for the discharge of its member in the world of a certain institution. According to our assessment, this is a typical arrogance that we have witnessed in this congregation several times in recent times. Look, it's two and a half months before the end of the term, and the government comes up with a proposal to replace it with another name, including a man from another political option. If Mr Potočnik has been corrected to have been doing his job for more than three years, then there are no reasons in the Group of Members why the government could not trust him with this task for two and a half months. It is a typical meaningless business with which the government has come to the national assembly, as well as from political hygiene, as well as from cultural background, I propose that we reject this proposal and send a clear signal to the government that such acrobatics and personnel exchanges are not being carried out just before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First of all, he has a colleague, Štemberger, who is not. He's also not a colleague of the likes. Comrade Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Personally, my fellow Members and colleagues, I join the previous speaker, my fellow Member, Mr Rokavac. I myself have examined the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, Articles 5 and 21, to which the Government also refers. Neither in any of these articles nor in a single indent of these articles is there legal conditions for Mr. Potočnik of the Council of the Agricultural Land Fund to be replaced before the end of his term of office, because so far he is as a representative of the government - and to mention, although some of the LDS are very funny when members of the Councils are also exchanging such important institutions as the Agricultural Land Fund, although the government appoints five representatives to this Council, two of the workers and one of the representatives of the denationalisation applications. And if you think two months and a half or three months before the end of your term in this way, because a person comes from the Slovenian People's Party and because the Slovenian People's Party is no longer in the government, to replace our representative, I think it's a big political mistake. This is quite typical of the LDS that when one of the opposition speaks up they object. And my colleague, who is very opposed, Majnik and everyone else would still like to remind you of what I have often talked about and warned you about in this National Assembly. It is known who is the President of the Supervisory Board of the Agricultural Land Fund, who are the members, and who are the members of the Board of the Agricultural Land Fund. In this mandate, the government has appointed or appointed over 2,000 people to various functions, either as Director, Deputy, Undersecretary, Secretary of State, members of the Supervisory Boards, members of the Boards of Institutions and could also list. And give it to your fellow Members and colleagues, take your time, keep a look at these lists by name and surname, by permanent residence, and you will be able to find out that from central Slovenia of these 2000 appointed candidates is the majority of all who have been staffed by this side of Slovenia. And you will not find 50 people from the northeast of Slovenia who were appointed by the government in this mandate. And if you give this gentleman, who also comes from that end, give him for the order and discipline of the government, and because of the order and discipline of you who are currently in power, I give you all the right, you have all the right to do so; I just think it is unfair and unfair. It is also a former Member of the National Assembly, a former Secretary of State, and I am convinced that Franz Potočnik, with his knowledge and expertise, has been able to serve as Secretary of State until recently in this Government and that you today claim that two and a half months can no longer serve as a member of the Council of the Institute as one of eight members, please vote on this proposal which the Government has made. I would like to ask, Presidents, that before we vote, a government representative should give his opinion on the replacement of a member of the Council of the Agricultural Land Fund. I would like to hear the Government's representative's arguments before the decision is taken that, until recently, Secretary of State Frantz Potočnik is proposed to be replaced two and a half months before the end of his term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. The Government's opinion is set out in the proposal. There is now no government representative present to give any additional opinion. No one is reported for discussion anymore. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Franc Potočnik's duties as a member and the appointment of Mr Jožet Sterlet as a member of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Vote explanation, colleague Tone Partljič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u175	I'm sorry. I won't be wasting my time. I will support this proposal despite the arguments made by my colleagues, despite all due respect for my colleague Franco Potočnik, and I do not understand why it would be so problematic. This is a government representative in this world. And it seems to me in some way - not to pursue a region, not to take the trust and trust of a person. The government just assessed, one of you saying that they were exiled, the other we think they left the government themselves, that they would have another representative of their own. And I think it's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you, Comrade Partich. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u177	I think it would be professionally correct for the government to state the reasons why it is releasing it, to have a government representative, to appoint another representative, but I think it would be correct to say that it does not do our will or our opinions or our views. I think we've had some cases like this when someone represented the government, although he wasn't a so-called political government man. At least two months before the end of the term as a member of the Council, I think it's toying. I will not support this proposal - at all, the government's attitude, nobody sits here by the government, and they think everything is "out" - and this is an inappropriate attitude towards Parliament. There's no explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. The word is from a colleague of Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u179	Of course, I will not support this proposal. However, I will not support it because of one simple fact that Articles 5 and 21 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests cannot be interpreted in any way as meaning that if a person is not clearly a member of one of the political parties who are in the government coalition, he cannot be a government representative in a particular state institution, which, of course, must clearly represent professional positions. And I really don't understand the look in this direction, but it is really necessary to politicize every single institution in this country with political personnel set up by the ruling position. I think it's absurd, so I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Anybody else want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. 54 Members and Members voted 33 in favour, 15 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a decision appointing a President and three members of the State Audit Commission was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, a fellow magician has the word. Janez Petty Officer. He doesn't want to. Comrade Sushinik? He's not here. LDS. He doesn't want to. A fellow Rockhead. He doesn't want to. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My friend Stemberger? He's not here. There's no counterpart. Comrade Jerovšek. He's not here. A colleague of mine? He does. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u181	Well, the composition of this commission will, of course, change politically, and this is essential. And perhaps we can also ask ourselves what was the intention of such a hurry to appoint, by the procedure for the appointment of new members of the President and three members of the State Audit Commission, because they are not due until December of this year. And, of course, from political hygiene and culture, it would probably be appropriate for this appointment of this institution, these members of this institution, to carry out a new mandate of the National Assembly; however, probably also because of some interests, in order to ensure influence in the next term, it is likely that we have a very fast track record. I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President and three members of the State Audit Commission for a period of five years. We're voting. The presence of 53 Members and Members, for 46 Members and Members, against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal by the Government for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal to appoint members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture, if he wishes to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, my colleague has the word mag. Janez Petty Officer. He doesn't want to. LDS? He doesn't want to. Comrade Bogdan Barovich? He doesn't want to. My buddy Tuck? He's not here. A colleague of Podobnik has been reported, he is not present. However, my colleague Kangler wishes on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to take the floor at this point, but my statement, which was at the previous point in the world of the Agricultural Land Fund, when I argued that members should be appointed to certain councils and other government functions, I would like to draw your attention to this. And that those of you who sometimes make fun of me, when I statistically say that I will prove it to you now. We have a conclusion, the management board of the Prešeren Fund in the following composition, which consists of a proposal made by 15 people. Take your time and see where these people come from. As if from Gorenjska, from Dolenjska, Primorska, Štajerska, Prekmurje, Koroška there are no people who would be able to operate in such a composition of this committee. It is as if they are not able to work on the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund, which we have today in the debate. I have absolutely nothing against these candidates to stress again, absolutely nothing. But I want to stress equality, an opportunity for those who come from elsewhere, not from central Slovenia, and look. The first candidate is Dr. Matjaž Barbo, 20 Ashkretseva, probably Šmarje. Others - Ljubljana, third - Ljubljana, fourth - Murska Sobota, fifth - Ljubljana, sixth - from Celovca, seventh - Ljubljana, eighth - Ljubljana, nine - Ljubljana, tenth - Ljubljana, eleven - Ljubljana, twelve - Ljubljana, thirteen - from Maribor, fourteen - Ljubljana, fifteen - Ljubljana. I think that this information, respected colleagues and colleagues, tells us everything. And I'm not laughing, but those who laugh at it have a bitter smile at all those who are capable of being members of this fund, even though they come through a permanent residence and are cultural to work and have knowledge, have the ability to also participate in this harmony. This is what we have been saying all the time - that there is too much centralisation in all areas: human resources, political, economic, public finances. I can see that it makes no sense, since I probably will not convince anyone that I would think differently in the future and give opportunity to some others. Of course, I will not oppose these candidates in this vote, but I will refrain from protesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if it's possible that you're silent not to talk. We will hold for a few more minutes and then there will be a possibility of discussion in the working groups or in two or whatever he wants. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is from a colleague, Josef Školč. He doesn't want to. Comrade Podobnik is registered. He's not here. He doesn't want a friend of mine. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Prešeren malt for a period of four years. We're voting. Vote explanation, colleague Tone Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u185	I'm sorry, I'm going to use this opportunity in my language law one more time today. I do not get angry when I look at these public opinions about the situation of political parties; for the last time, I have the opportunity to speak, but I would use it. Of course, I do not deny it, nor was it intended for me to dispute with anyone the views of my colleague Franc. It's too centralised, but there are things where it doesn't seem so essential to me, especially because I see that someone from Maribor, someone from Koroška, someone from Murska Sobota, is compared to before, but otherwise. And secondly, here are these institutions as musical academics etc., and there are people - at least half of the Ljubljanaians came from somewhere else, including us sitting here. Secondly, I wanted to make a call - I apologize to my colleagues who have been on the Immunity Commission - and I think that this is an opportunity to say that the previous committee that we have chosen here with the President so far - and I do not think that so far there have been many presidents - I think this work has done well. And in recent times there have been no scandals, no controversy, no form of distribution, and not many rewards. That seems fair to me. And I don't think it's very uniform for me, even though these people are living here now. I think she's generationally balanced to make it hard to show, this one's left, this one's right. I think it's a good proposal for this committee. I will support him, and I call on my colleagues to support him as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you, Comrade Partich. Voice wants to explain to colleague Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u187	That is why I would like to explain my voice once again. I will abstain from this vote. I respect all these candidates, I do not separate these candidates, which we also have today, according to the political option, not to the left or to the right. I would like to remind you of the structure of the education of these candidates that we have three such centres in Slovenia, we also have a Slovenian national theatre in Maribor, we have good candidates who could be members of this fund. We also have a theatre in Nova Gorica, which I am convinced that they have both dancers, both players and other cultural associates, and also in Celje, and this fund about their candidates, respected colleagues and colleagues, should also be regionally divided by cultural institutions, if you agree with me or don't tell you, again, in Maribor we also have a Slovenian national theatre which is owned by a country that has good staff, good quality of people, and I think that many people in this institution could also find themselves on this list. Once again, I will abstain from this vote. Personally, I do not oppose any of these candidates who are of their own good and who are on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I think in front of me, Mr Partljič has also found what is most likely true. Not all Ljubljanaians are Ljubljana citizens. We in Posavje and in Dolenjska might want to be a national gallery in Kostanijevica, but it is not, it is in Ljubljana; it is the director of this gallery, Mr Smrekar, our host and local and many such. Boris Cavazza, who is not Ljubljana and is Ljubljana, is a player of the coastal theatre from Kopra, if I am not mistaken and so on. I am sure that we have a very good proposal before us and that just because we are a little tired, someone will abstain from this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you, Comrade Azhish. He wants to explain his voice to Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u191	Thank you, for your word. I don't know, though, because I'm not a member of the KICZA, what proposals have been made besides the 15 that are listed here. So, there's nothing to tell these people after their skills and jobs, it's about people who are definitely suitable. As far as regional representation is concerned, this proposal is, of course, quite contrary to what we can hear in this national assembly many times, how Slovenia must somehow develop a polycentrically evenly. That, for example, in Novi Gorica, Koper or New Town you did not find or no candidate suitable to become a member of this administrative committee of the Prešeren Fund, this, of course, seems unacceptable to me, regardless of whether these people were once at home somewhere else; today they eventually live in Ljubljana and are in some way Ljubljanans. Of the 15 names to be found only three outside the capital, it shows the extraordinary non-professional work of the Elections and Appointments Commission, if it was available, I will say again if there were more candidates available. If she didn't, then I apologize and take my word back. However, if she has had a proposal for several candidates, then it shows that she has not done her job and I will abstain in this vote myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you. Anyone else? My friend, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal, and I will use this instrument to explain my voice only to say that the Prešeren Prizes Act requires a candidate, who is a government, not a mandate-holder commission, and all proposals come together with the government. This is what I am telling the pre-president to accept or reject the mandate-holder commission. The law itself requires the proposer to balance the board so that the representatives are primarily important creators from different fields. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that national awards are at stake. And the only thing that is not appropriate in this sense is to vaccinate it on some regional criterion. In this case, compared to the previous mandate, there is an average number of people who also live outside Ljubljana. The previous board of directors failed because it didn't. And here we have to judge the entire Slovenian cultural space; from this point of view we can consider that two come from Croatia, one from Italy and one from Austria, and this is also something that has not yet happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Jerca Frostel's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! I'll support this list myself. You need to know that all those who are proposed not only from this place, from that place or from any place, but all of them, in my opinion, are also secular. Culture doesn't have such a narrow limit. I'd like to comfort you with something else. Celje has its festival, Maribor has its festival where it has its candidates, they manage these things in their own way. And, look, also Majda Haderlap, who is from Austria, is with Matjaž Farič, who is from Murska Sobota, is with, Cavazza, who now works in Koper, is with him. I think this committee is fine and that we can support it, believe me. Please, if you can trust me, I recommend you accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you. I don't see any more hands up. We're voting on the proposal. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the judge of the jury and the judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The draft conclusions were submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he's got the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer. [[He doesn't want to.]] My friend Barovic gave up his word. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First time. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the discharge of Mr Boris Ogrin as judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members of Parliament present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Another time. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Polo Melinc as Judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members of Parliament present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, that he appoint Mr Zoran Mladenović as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors for a period of nine years. I ask the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, the Secretary-General, Dr. Nahtigal, if he wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u197	President, thank you very much. As was already the case in the previous proposal, this proposal, the whole procedure and the explanation, were presented in detail before the Commission’s mandate and therefore only in one sentence. Mr Zoran Mladenović is the Supreme State Auditor, a graduate economist with experience both in the revision of the public sector and the Supreme State Auditor before the Court of Auditors, but he has already had experience in commercial auditing. Throughout his activities, he has also advanced in specialized studies in both Slovenia and abroad, while also conducting or leading a "twinning project" with the English Supreme Audit Institute. That is why I propose his approval and thus allow the full composition of the Court of Auditors to carry out all the tasks it must perform under the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thanks for the extra explanation. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, a fellow Master Janez Drobnič has the word. He doesn't want to. LDS Group - does not want to, colleague Barovic has resigned, colleague Cukjat is not present, colleague Rokavec - does not want to. Following the debate of Members and Members, colleague Jožef Školč has the floor. He doesn't want to. My friend Barovic gave up. Comrade Elinčič the Noble is away. The proposed candidate may also receive the text if he so wishes. He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the Vice Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 35 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mr Andrej Rant be appointed as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. I ask the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Dr. Nahtigal, whether he wishes to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much, President. This is one of the most experienced members of the World Bank of Slovenia, who has already performed a number of the most important functions of this monetary authority or monetary institution in the past. Currently, he is responsible for the integration of Slovenia from the perspective of the Bank of Slovenia into the European Monetary Union and is also a member of the ECOFIN working body and, of course, we propose its approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thanks for the extra explanation. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A colleague of mags. It's a trifle. He doesn't want to. LDS? He doesn't want to. My friend Barovic gave up his word. My friend Tsukati is not present. A fellow Rockhead? He doesn't want to. There will be a debate between Members and Members. A fellow school? He doesn't want to. He did not give up or give up his word. He's not here. He's not here. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia appointing the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairmen and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have forwarded me proposals for members of the panel to chair the vote. In particular, the proposals are as follows: Rudolf Moge, Jože Tanko, Mag. Majda Potrate and Sonja Areh Lavrič. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. I ask, does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission, as just proposed. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with Article 37(5) of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, each proposed candidate will be appointed if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please help me to report to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 5:15 p.m. and will continue until 5:30 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 5:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u201	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. We continue with the adjournment of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint another Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 15 July 2004. There were 58 votes in favour, 58 votes in favour, 58 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour, and 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was appointed by a majority of the votes of all Members as the second Deputy Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, Zoran Mladenovic. It shall be named for a period of nine years from the date on which it becomes operational. [[Let's hear it.]] I ask Mr Zoran Mladenović, second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u202	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially. Allow me one more minute to thank all Members of Parliament and Members very much for their expressed trust. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u203	I sincerely congratulate the other Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and wish him much success in carrying out his responsible duty. We continue with the suspension of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 15 July 2004. There were 58 votes in favour, 58 votes in favour, 58 votes in favour, and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was appointed vice-governor and member of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years, Andrej Rant, by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members. The mandate shall begin on 13 January 2005. [[Let's hear it.]] To the member of the Bank of Slovenia and to the vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Rant, I sincerely congratulate him and wish him much success in performing his responsible duty! I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u204	We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Personal Data Protection Act. On Friday, 9.7.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the law. I didn't get the notice that the marriage was inconsistent. We vote on the bill. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of item 5 of the agenda - third reading of the bill on pardon. On Friday, 9.7.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. No amendments have also been tabled to the supplementary proposal, so we are moving to a legislative decision in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't get any notice about the non-conformity of the law. We vote on the bill. There are 50 of us present, 47 Members and Members voted against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of agenda item 6 - third reading of the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses. Yesterday, 14.7.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. No amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, so we are moving to a legislative decision in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. There is no notice of non-compliance. We vote on the bill. There are 47 of us present, 40 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine. Yesterday, 1407, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. The amendments have not been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I didn't get any notice of non-conformity. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on higher vocational education. Yesterday, 1407, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. No amendments have been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. On Monday, 12.07, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft law, as amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. Does anyone want a word about this? Master of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u205	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Florian Lipusz said, "We're with language or we're not." The law before us, all the embarrassment, all the problems, as well as all the joys of language will not be removed. Because the language lives in people and lives out of people and lives among people. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, thank you for the kindness with which you have accepted the work, creation and correction of this law. And at the end of the day, I would like to thank all those who helped prepare and assist with the proposal of the law on the public use of the Slovenian language - and I hope - that it is meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Since this is somehow the end of the regular joint session, I would like to say, colleagues and colleagues, that the Slovenian National Party has finally been given the satisfaction that it is some endorsement of Slovenia. The marriage will have to be overturned, it will have to be completed. The greatest and most important achievement is that this law on the use of Slovenian language is and that it gives meaning, role and pride to Slovenia and Slovenian culture, which has preserved and received this country for thousands of years.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. In my opinion, the law on the use of the Slovenian language is urgently needed, so I am very pleased that we are today adopting this law at the last meeting. Given that we have come to the European Union this year, new pressures will come over Slovenia. There will be a major movement of people, capital, goods, and we will also adapt to the Bologna process. It's all got to be in front of you. The last time we spoke to a parliamentarian from the German Parliament, when Mr Moze mentioned that we would adopt a law on the use of the Slovenian language, he was very interested. He said, because we too feel the pressure of the English language on our tongue. The tongue must live, the tongue must develop. Also in technical and economic terms. I would like to remind you only of what Prešeren's award this year said: With Slovenian we are Slovenian, without Slovenian we are not. Without Slovenian, there is no Slovenian culture, neither the Slovenian economy nor Slovenian politics, and the Slovenian country can lose its meaning, we become only the Dalmatian province of northern or southern, eastern or western neighbours. So we need Slovenian. And there's something else I'd like to tell you. Many have participated in the adoption of this law or in the preparation of it, cooperated with barbecue, and with the hope that this law will be adopted. I would thank everyone very much, they weren't just celebrities, they were lawyers, they were people from other areas. But let me finally tell all those who have somehow taken this law with a reserve to harm the economy. Remember, I want to read you just one verse from Prešeren's Elegy to my cousins: "Kranjec, you are only looking for profit, you do not care what you read, what you write, you must give a sure bottom. What is not foreign, you despise, you lose track of old tricks, you don't respect your singers, you are blind to honor." This was written 140 years ago, and I think it's still true for a lot of people today. Once again, I think the law will be passed, we want him to be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u210	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u211	The law will probably be adopted. It's the law. It may not be the best, but the language develops and lives, and that is likely to improve too. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u213	You must have a little patience with us proposing in this case. The lady just quoted Prešerna, who in his day showed that the thinnest emotional movements and poetic demands are being cast into Slovenian. Dalmatin, 450 years ago, showed that even the Scriptures, although it was only the beginning of our writing. Not to say that, say Slovenian farmer or Slovenian nation found in a folk song and for what he did, all the right word. I think it's a respectable dish. Although I have heard here, I would also be prepared to compromise that we will not create our own language for the modern economy, production and capital, but we have somehow adopted another logic. I'm sorry if we accept it without resistance. And at the end of the day, let me do this little metaphorically, maybe even a little discounted comparison. As you know, I was also a teacher, besides a teacher of Slovenian, I was also an English teacher, and I remember being at a summer school in Scotland. And if I say so now, let's say English is an enormous animal with a head in Western Europe and across the western hemisphere and a tail in India. I'm not gonna say dinosaurs because they're extinct, but like whales. I was in Russia days ago, and I'd say the Russian is a giant bear from Moscow to Siberia. Slovenian is a little screaming, so one little screaming, so nice, so gently, when you take in your hand, so little tiny animal, you're happy with the soul, and you don't even know what it is. And Slovenia is a bit like one chick. We must protect what is so beautiful, so small, so extraordinary and so vulnerable. Not being cynical about this thing would be my message and thank you for the insight that we've been adopting the law. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I believe that we could almost not have completed the regular part of the National Assembly in a better way than this gesture, that we are, of course, enacting a law on the public use of Slovenian. In this way, I believe that the National Assembly and this country, in a symbolic and appropriate manner, owes to all generations before us, who, of course, have done much to make Slovenia an official language, of course, among all the official languages in the European Union. At the same time, of course, a journey to new generations to have the right attitude and respect for the Slovenian language in the future. In fact, I believe that in this way Slovenia can become an integral part of the European Union, and, of course, it will retain its self-determination. If we have kept it until now, we can keep it in the future, of course, only with proper respect for our own language. We are proud of this language and, of course, in the parliamentary group, we will unitedly support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. It is true that Slovenia can be a small bird, but from a small bird it can grow a large bird. And I hope that the indigenous Slovenian white-headed hawk will grow out of this little pixie, which unfortunately is no longer nesting in Slovenia, but I hope that it will return to Slovenia. The law on the use of the Slovenian language is an important law and the Crotovation of the Slovenian language, which we have witnessed all this time in the last 12 years and perhaps a little earlier, let's say in the last 20, mainly by various intellectual linguists who have been knocking together various words and who have been making some pencils, by not knowing the basic matter. I hope this stops. The fact is, we got olive oil, like we were working on olives, not olives. And in some translations of foreign literature, we can even see that three black olives and not olives should be given in a particular dish. But that's it, and these are the linguists that Prešeren said: Only the shoes belong to the hooves. Perhaps they lack a more extensive education, and perhaps we could look into some trees at some point, since otherwise we will have apple and vinegar and no more apple juice. It is sad that we recently passed a law, which is a big slap to the Slovenian language. We have changed the name of the University of Primorsk into Italian form, which is essentially attempting to extend the Italian border to the former Rapal borders. Gentlemen from the Liberal Democracy and the United List were happy to vote in favour of fascistization of the work of Slovenian history and I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u218	Victory, please, you've started so well [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u219	The stain also fell on this law on the use of the Slovenian language. [[...]] I am sure that there will be no more such mistakes in the next term, because I am sure that the majority in this House will be different and that most will not allow such abuses, but there will be a lot of adjustments to be made so that this matter will not continue. It is a pleasure to see the agreement of all parliamentary groups in this law. No one can own this marriage. We've done it together, we've accepted it together, and although it's not very good or not very good and it's going to need a lot of correction and harmonisation, a big step has been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that we will conclude this mandate with this law. I also see a great deal of symbolism in this. Otherwise, the law on the public use of Slovenian is one, and we are all responsible for preserving the language as the greatest value of the nation. And if we don't realize it, this law won't help us either. If I do, even if it's so cool.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the marriage myself because I think we need it. New pressure will be generated on the use of Slovenian. And before we part, let me read another fragment of Slomški in this regard: "He who loves his own country shall not be ashamed of his own generation, nor of his own mother tongue. Mother tongue is God's first gift. We have to take care of him in front of all other languages, to worship him, to gloat that we love to speak Slovenian, to sing and to rejoice." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll support the law myself. This is not about the law, it is about the use of the Slovenian language, so I would like to say something new on behalf of the other three MEPs who are "springing" today for excused or unjustifiable reasons. The European Union recognised Slovenian as an official language. And it has never been spoken in Slovenian in Brussels before. Since we are full members, we have this privilege and this form of equivalence and equality so that all debaters can be heard in their mother tongue. This costs a lot. Translators are not cheap. But we can also question all Europeans in their mother tongue. And I tell you, it's an extraordinary feeling when you can ask a candidate for future president of the European Commission in Slovenian and find that it doesn't help him or translate into Portuguese or into English and can't answer the question. That is why I think this element, the fact that it is now the official language of the European Union, is a great opportunity and an opportunity for us to build our relationship to the Slovenian language also by using it abroad. And it would therefore be worth not only supporting the adoption of the law, but taking another step towards its realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much. A lot can be written into one or another law, and it's nice, consistent, with consent. But more important than how this is written in law is how all of this is done in practice. Therefore, I would like to remind you of what Mr Kacin has said so far before me, because until now he has been a key observer in the European Parliament, material has been coming to the committee recently, such as my committee, virtually everything in English. I mean, if we've laid the groundwork with the law to keep our mother tongue authentic, then in practice there has to be a lot of change. And that is what I expect from this law, and of course I will gladly support it in this expectation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on the bill? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 53 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 38th and final meeting, the regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, allow me to thank you, on behalf of the professional services and also on my behalf, sincerely for my cooperation, and also to express my wish that you are nothing from this town, but perhaps you considered it unnecessary to take a word, to come out maliciously, but only in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its resolutions. Once again, thank you from the service and on my behalf for your cooperation. I would like to take the floor and invite the President of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President Irma. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. We conclude the 38th regular meeting, probably the last regular meeting of the third national assembly meeting, with a record number of agenda items, more than 60. Much work has been done in this mandate to the extent and importance of work after content. Instead of many and big words, let me just give you a few numbers and facts. From the constitutional session of 27 October 2000 to today, the National Assembly held 86 meetings, regular and extraordinary, for 303 days and even a few nights, as it did last night and this morning. He dealt with 1,389 agenda items. Of course, more than work is important than any work, the results, and again some numbers. 676 laws were adopted, of which 4 were constitutional, 144 were so-called European laws or laws for adaptation and integration into the EU, 472 other acts, of which 238 were passed and 5 were adopted. In this mandate, the international functioning of the National Assembly has been extremely intensive and extensive, at all levels, from the Chairman of the Committee on International Relations to external policy, European affairs, other working bodies to groups of friendship, Members and Members, professional services and so on. To illustrate just a few data, more of these numbers and a detailed review will be available in the written material. The highest number of activities was normal for integration into the European Union, with a total of 307 activities, from participation in the Convention to cooperation with the European Parliament and a number of other meetings and meetings. Bilateral cooperation with countries was intense. There have been some 450 protocol visits. Cooperation in the field of multilateral cooperation or multilateralism was intense. The work in this and previous mandates is crowned by the entry into the European Union and NATO. And I would like to say, colleagues and colleagues, that we have the privilege, for the first time in the history of the members and members of this High Council, of those who are present and those who are not here at present, to conclude a mandate as full members of both Euro-Atlantic links. Of course, it didn't come from itself, but there's a lot of responsible work behind it. At the same time, I consider it a duty, and at the same time a great privilege, to express my gratitude and gratitude for the work and cooperation that has been done to all Members and Members. Special thanks are due to our present President Borut Pahor, Vice-President of Irma, Vice-President, colleague of Pohorc and colleague of Brejc, Secretary-General and Secretary-General of the Legislative and Legal Service and, of course, to all co-workers and co-workers of the services of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the President, the current and also the former, all institutions and individuals, including the social partners and civil society. Last but not least, there is great gratitude for the representatives of the media who accompanied the work of the National Assembly. At the end of the day, I wish everyone a pleasant and well-deserved holiday. Now I invite all those present in this hall and those present in this house to a glass of good faith and glory in the courtyard of this hall. Thank you very much for your attention. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
