ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, a nice greeting to you all! I am opening the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that you are detained and cannot attend today's meeting the following Member: Mr Victory Jelinčič noble and Mr Kristijan Janc from 2.30 p.m. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 3rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The LDS Club proposes that the agenda be extended by the "election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia". Does the proposer's representative want a word? Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u2	The LDS Club proposes to extend the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting because it was agreed at the College that the vote on the third Vice-President of the National Assembly be held when the relationship between the coalition and opposition parliamentary parties is known. The reasons for the extension with that point were created after the reference, in accordance with the decision of the LDS Council, so we propose an extension of the agenda by electing the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Please check the cards [[On the right hand side must the lamp burn]] . No comments. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 81 Members present, 81 votes against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decree was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. The first is the representative of the SDS, Mr Zammernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our parliamentary group, we support the adoption of the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. After numerous coordinations and arrangements, both formal and informal, we have come to a number of common conclusions that I think all colleagues in the National Assembly can agree with. This common observation was that some committees in the previous composition of the National Assembly were very overloaded, even very numerous, and therefore there was a problem with the conclusion and that we had never reached the Green Branch. Thus, in order to achieve a better, more efficient work, the Transport and Environment Infrastructure Committees and the Space Committees are divided; this is also a meaningful division. We are setting up a committee that has already been established in some previous mandates, a special committee that has been excluded from internal policy and is called the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regionalism. We'll agree on an exact dictatorship. Some amendments have been announced here. And the committee, which was also very wide, was a committee for health, work, family, social and disabled people. From this long and very burdened committee we exclude the area of health care. There were also suggestions or suggestions before you on the table to create a working body, a special working body that is now in one set. This is a commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. The proposal of some parliamentary groups was to separate this into two parts. Somehow, in the Group of Members, we decided that human rights and equal opportunities will now be no more violated by replacing the leadership of the country than they were before, and that is why we decided not to support this proposal. As I said, however, the decree as proposed by the College will be fully supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. I would like to point out that there is no business provision elsewhere that a representative of the parliamentary group should not speak from the seat, but it is usually to speak from the centre or from the speaker. The next is Mr Milan Cwickl, LDS representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u6	Mr President, given that you have proposed to use this speaker several times, I will, of course, present here the opening position of the LDS Club on this agenda item. The LDS Group disagrees with the proposal made by the College of the President of the National Assembly on the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for a number of fundamental reasons to be stated below. Firstly, because the LDS proposals were largely disregarded. On 3 November, we gave Mr President of the National Assembly a proposal to create special working bodies with expressed wishes for the coverage or management of individual working bodies. We have proposed the establishment of a Committee on Local Self-Government and Regionalism and a special Commission on Human Rights, Fundamental Freedoms and Equal Opportunities. We note that the proposal was first submitted to the College by the President of the National Assembly in half and not two-thirds, as stated. However, our proposals have not been taken into account with the conclusions of the College yesterday and today's proposal. On the inside, we are particularly assessing that proposals that have not been taken into account with regard to the establishment of a special Commission on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and a policy of equal opportunity, which is why we cannot agree with these proposals. We hope that today the proposed amendment will be adopted in this regard, and in particular that we will clearly include in the work of the Commission on Human Rights, Fundamental Freedoms and Equal Opportunities to address the situation and specific rights of the Roma community in Slovenia and to address the situation and rights of members of other nations or national communities in the territory of Slovenia. Secondly, we do not agree with the decision because the drafting of the proposal did not take into account our principled proposal not to increase the number of working bodies compared to the previous mandate period. Especially since an amendment was not voted yesterday on the preservation of the old Committee on Education, Culture, Sport, Youth, but on the formation of two committees, it is not logical, of course, that we have two committees, when it is clear that the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology does not have its connection, of course, completely logical and results from the last week's decisions or the law on state administration and government. Thirdly, we cannot agree because, first of all, the President and then the College of the President of the National Assembly, at the related points yesterday, established the composition of the working bodies, before determining the number of posts per group, as well as to which groups of Members belong to individual management functions, did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both in accordance with the provisions of Article 33(6) and Article 34(2). In this regard, we would particularly like to point out that the second paragraph of Article 34 provides that Members of the national communities are members of the Commission for National Communities and that they shall make a statement in which other bodies of the National Assembly wish to participate and shall communicate this in writing to the President of the National Assembly. This provision of the Rules of Procedure is based on the third paragraph of Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that a Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities shall always be elected to the National Assembly. In the establishment and functioning of the National Assembly, they shall, in accordance with the specific constitutional and legal situation, grant them additional or greater rights than other parliamentary groups. We estimate that the President of the National Assembly in the drafting of the material and, of course, the College, when deciding yesterday, ignored the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 34. On the basis of Rule 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, we have considered in the LDS House of Members that the College would decide on that decision in its entirety. On the basis of the consultations held this morning, including by representatives of the national community, the President of the National Assembly, where it was explained that this would be attempted at the next College meeting, we decided not to make this proposal. However, we believe that it would be good and we will see how the College will decide to take full account of the 12-year practice and, of course, the second paragraph of Article 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Fourth time. I oppose the decision because none of the first priorities of the LDS Member Club for the taking over of individual responsibilities was taken into account, in particular with regard to the wishes expressed to the letter of 3 November for the management of the Committee on Labour, the family, social policy, culture, education, science, youth, sport, infrastructure, the environment, internal policy, external policy, European Union affairs, the economy, local self-government and regionalism. As is known, first the President of the National Assembly and yesterday's College, of course, adopted the conclusion that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u7	Mr. Squeakle, you're talking about 2. points. The first item is the decision, the proposal for a decision establishing, not the appointment of presidents and vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u8	We explain the reasons why we will oppose the decision in its entirety, because one of the important issues is that the decision does not take account of the proposals for the division of the two committees. We will also discuss this in the amendment and allow me to explain why the LDS Club must oppose the decision. I just have one more point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u9	Mr Squeakl, decree, the content of the operation of individual working bodies has nothing to do with the number of seats on a committee or commission, and I ask you to stick to point 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u10	We have found, in the discussion we had at the parliamentary club, that, of course, a number of proposals have been taken into account with regard to the decree. However, since we still have a type of inadequacy in the decision to increase the number of committees and because of the division of individual powers, we want today with appropriate amendments to correct this and in this regard we will also vote either on individual amendments or on the decision as a whole. But if you don't mind, I would end up with a final thought, because, of course, point two is not going to be a lot to talk about. In these days, much has been said about how we have reached agreement on the content of the work of the Committees of the National Assembly, the Commissions and how we take over the management of individual committees in the National Assembly. In the LDS, we want primarily to take responsibility for the work of the National Assembly with the acquisition and substantive determination of the content of the work of the individual working bodies and, of course, we hope that we will be able to eliminate these errors in the next few amendments I have discussed and that, despite the fact that we will be decided today under points 1 and 2, we will be able to work in the committees of the National Assembly for the benefit of all voters and electorates, as the Constitution has, of course, and as set out in our commitments to the programmes of individual parliamentary parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. A representative of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Potrč, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has participated in the formulation of decisions on the working bodies of the National Assembly and their organisation. Our initial opinion was that it would be good to maintain the existing scope of the working bodies if they were to increase them and, if possible, to think about creating a working body that specifically addresses human rights and equal opportunities. We have come from the belief that the 90-member Parliament is better able to perform tasks if it is not too many working bodies, but later, on the basis of the coalition's demands, a decision has been made to increase four working bodies, which we have taken note of. As far as the composition is concerned, we feel that it is bad that our proposals have not been adopted so far so that the petition commission can be divided into two committees, so we have also proposed an amendment for this decision, and we ask and propose that we reconsider it. We believe that, for many fundamental reasons, it is justified to set up a special working body in the National Assembly to address the current human rights issue of Slovenia and ensure equal opportunities for women and men. We do not think or argue that human rights will be more or less threatened than in previous times, but there is no doubt that the constant concern for the realization of human rights is of such importance that it is worth paying special attention to in the National Assembly. We would like to say that so far we have not heard any substantive serious objections to the establishment of a special commission. No one, even the greatest opponents of its establishment, can claim that, like all other countries, the issue of the realization of human rights is always not real, that we do not have areas and groups of people requiring special treatment, and that the specific working body of this task can do better and more comprehensively than if it is connected to one other's working body. The experience of adding these questions to another working body confirms our claim that these issues are of secondary importance, perhaps except when the Ombudsman’s report is being considered, which is usually only once a year. Finally, last year or this year we completed Article 43 of the Constitution, in the previous term, which requires specific legal regulation of the equal rights of women and men in elections to the National Assembly and the local community, we have also adopted a law on equal opportunities for women and men in all areas of social life. All of this probably requires and assumes that we will have more tasks on these issues in the National Assembly. The claim made by some opponents to set up a special commission in order to make it a vague relationship between the competences of the petition commission and between the Human Rights and Equal Opportunities Commission does not, in our opinion, hold serious treatment. It is known that the Commission on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities would not be a parent labour force, except perhaps for the consideration of the Ombudsman's report, which would only increase the quality of handling this report. And it is known that the issues relating to Article 45 of the Constitution would remain within the competence of the petition commission on citizens' rights to file petitions and other initiatives. Finally, the coalition's claim that the creation of a new Commission on Human Rights and equal opportunities is too much to increase the number of working bodies of the National Assembly, when the same coalition is required at the same time and has already voted four new working bodies, is indeed fraud and cynicism. Where the coalition responds to the content, it establishes four new working bodies, but this does not burden the work of the National Assembly, where it does not suit it, but is one new too many. Thus, such an argument cannot really be believed. I therefore propose, especially to the coalition, because it is up to it whether or not we will succeed in reconsidering our proposal. The principle of opposition would not benefit our work, nor would it benefit us to understand the human rights situation at home and in Europe. Finally, let me say that we have some hope that the Members and Members in particular may have the right to vote and vote alone, without discipline in the Group of Members, and that we will also get a vote from you and perhaps with the amendment. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Janez Drobnič, representative of NSI, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u14	A warm welcome to all fellow believers, including others in the national assembly or in this hall! In New Slovenia we support a joint agreed proposal for the creation of working bodies of the National Assembly. Somehow we have followed the basic requirements for working bodies to be designed as required by the Rules of Procedure. First of all, it is the creation of commissions with a particular purpose, particularly supervision, and which bodies are led by the opposition. The second criterion is to take into account the way in which labour bodies are designed in the government; to also create working bodies and also to address matter in this way. However, we have committed ourselves to the fact that committees are a way of a more rational and in-depth approach to motherhood. And it does not make sense, of course, that we include in an individual committee content in which, of course, some Members would not have so much insight or so much interest, or so much behavior or so much knowledge. So it is a combination of some requirements in the Rules of Procedure and requirements for rational and quality organisation of work. And I think that's how it worked. We have also taken into account the starting points and experience of the functioning of the National Assembly in the past period. As it has been shown that the internal policy committee, infrastructure and some others work too much, it is exhausting that this material needs to be distributed in an appropriate manner. This has been taken into account and some of the working bodies, particularly the committees, have also been created. A small number of working bodies are in order to organize work. For according to the rules of procedure, two working bodies cannot meet at the same time. Since it is likely to take place, as in the previous period, to exclude working bodies before the meeting of the National Assembly, from ten days to five days before the meeting of the National Assembly, or even closer to the meeting of the National Assembly, the question, of course, arises how to provide this basic business arrangement. So they can't sit on more than two bodies. And that's understandable. Because then Members themselves cannot be on two committees at the same time. On the other hand, not too large a working body. In order to deal in depth with legal matter or any other matter. We think we've found an appropriate, intermediate solution. "Modeus Vivendi", which will meet these conditions. But certainly not all of our individual demands. The opinion of some of the parties who spoke before me, particularly the Liberal Democrats, that the so-called opposition - the opposition has not yet been precisely defined, however, the United List and Liberal Democracy had proposals for a college on the design of working bodies, and some have been adopted. Let me remind you of the previous term, where you rejected us, regardless of the content and severity of the comments, each time. This time you also acknowledge that we have taken good proposals into account. Not all of them, of course. It was mentioned that some of the parties in this troika have better employment in the management of working bodies. Let me read you the provision of Article 33, paragraph six. "In determining the leading functions in the working bodies, account shall be taken of the size of the parliamentary group, as well as the distribution of other functions in the national assembly", other functions in the national assembly, I repeat, "and the deployment of Members in delegations, international parliamentary institutions and international organisations and international bodies." If all of this is taken into account, then the identification of leadership functions for New Slovenia, as well as for the People's Party, is not disputed and is entirely consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u15	Mr. Petty Officer, it's the first point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u16	The Commission for Petitions of the Design of Work Bodies is this. [[...]] The Commission on Petitions, our proposal was to shape it the way it is and to add a topic to it, to draw attention to this subject, although in the previous session, the Commission on Petitions addressed the issue, which we are now more precisely defining and somehow spreading. However, if we formed two working bodies, there would be a problem with the allocation or the allocation of competences of the two committees, if this were the case. Thus, the New Slovenia Group will support the decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. The text is by the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Preseknik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. I must point out that, while our basic proposal was to divide as many bodies as possible from the previous term of office into two parts or to stay at about the same number, we have taken into account, of course, the positions and demands and wishes of previous mandates, that some bodies are too large to cover too many ministries. In particular, they are numbered as regards members. This is also why, in further coordination, we have supported the distribution of some working bodies so that at the same time the number of members in these working bodies will also be reduced. I think that individual commissions and committees will be more operational in this way, that there will also be less possibility of possible non-conclusion of individual working bodies and that, of course, the impact of individual working bodies will be greater. As we say, we will support the proposal put forward. We think that the college has made a great effort to make a great effort to create all these working bodies, and I would like to reiterate that we will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. A representative of the SNS has the floor, Mr Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the act ahead of us is one of the most important acts in any way, since, at the final stage and also in the initial stage, it represents some kind of future organisation, represents the number and scope of work bodies that will later deal with our laws or procedures, i.e. the submission of views, opinions until the final hearing in the National Assembly. During the last period, there have been many speeches in this House, i.e. the National Assembly and also in the media about the design, composition and number of working bodies, and much more, according to the Slovenian National Party, there has been, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, malicious talk and the presentation of distorted truths and the presentation of distorted facts by individual political parties on the content of the National Assembly, the division of the National Assembly and similar things. Allow me to begin by taking advantage of this opportunity to appear before the National Assembly just to give rise to disagreements between the Slovenian National Party and such a conversation in the context of the creation of the working bodies of the National Assembly. A letter came to the President of the National Assembly a day ago, the position of one of the parliamentary groups on the subject of working bodies with such content that this parliamentary group, which is signed under this document, cannot agree with the division of the opposition - the coalition because the Slovenian National Party is supposed to support some of the laws adopted so far within the legislative branch of power. In doing so, I would like to point out that we have adopted three laws in the institution of the National Assembly so far. The Slovenian national party has not supported three laws and I ask that this does not sound like some kind of excuse, as we do not feel any need for an apology within the national party. We would just like to emphasise the fact that the difference in thoughtfulness is what it means to be constructive. And later, I hope that the working bodies will also develop constructively. So, I would like to inform all those who accompany us through the media, such as all other Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, that the purpose of the Slovenian National Party is to give our country a national assembly, that is, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, or to write such legislation, which will allow for the best quality and better life of citizens and citizens. Well, secondly, letters indicating not some artificial creation of the so-called government also continued from other or other most powerful political parties, in the sense that the Slovenian National Party, because it supported, of course, the mandate holder, could not have this amount and such proportions in the employment of labour. At the same time, I would like to point out that all those and all those parliamentary groups, given that there was a speech at the time with the position of the Liberal Democracy Group, is very inappropriate and very unfair to talk about how a Member decided in a secret vote. I believe that each of you, especially the authors of this letter, if you think about it or think about it, will see what secret voting means. And for those of you who don't know, that means a man goes into a cabin where there's no cameras, where there's no one around and surrounds a particular matter. That is why I would ask all those giants who are obviously considered to be giants and say how others voted in secret vote that they are so credible, if not to themselves, but at least to the Slovenian public, Slovenian citizens and citizens, and do not say how someone voted in secret. The criteria for the division of labour bodies, on the one hand, was the membership of the ruling group or to be in the so-called opposition. However, from this point of view, I would like to point out that the criteria for being in the opposition have never been and will never agree with the policy of the United Nations or the Liberal Democracy. Because if that were the criteria, then it would be Slovenia's fault. I believe that every political party sitting in this National Assembly must follow its own agenda. It must follow the words we gave during the electoral campaign. I also believe, regrettably, that some political parties do not even have their own agenda and are simply following other political parties. But then let them overcome at least so much credibility and give no shadow of doubt, black words to those who have the program. In short, I would like to say that there is no criterion and must not be for someone who is in opposition, does it agree with the policy of Liberal Democracy or those who now suggest to the President that I should not talk about the content that I am talking about - right, Mrs Shirca? On the other hand, I would like to point out a few moments from the speeches that have taken place in the framework of the design of working bodies that have taken place, that I will not bore you, given that you do not want to accept the truth. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, no doubt certain political parties were struck by the moment of enlightenment when they suddenly fell from the former, under the terms of, of course, "water" personnel in the country and opposed any form of working bodies. Four years ago, in the framework of the debate of the National Assembly, in the framework of the debate between Members, the Slovenian National Party sought to set up a disability committee and set up a local self-government committee. Later, it turned out that it would make sense for the State Assembly to have these two bodies. For the disabled, we know that we have met several referendum initiatives in the past. And as for the issue of local self-government, we know that it would make sense for the national assembly to have its own working body. But it was those who today advocate enlargement, some kind of expansion of the working bodies, who opposed it. How can a person later, once he has some kind of political experience and when he sees this conversion of thought and words, believe in the well-meaning distribution of a certain committee, when we all know that this is not the case. As far as it is concerned - because I will try to make the content or position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group - the amendment of one of the political parties to the decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly, that is to say to the Commission on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and, secondly, to the Commission on Petitions, we will not oppose this in the Slovenian National Party. Just as we've never objected before. The decision will be in the political hands. On the other hand, it is important to note that the wishes of all and all of us or that you will not be taken into account within the framework of working bodies. In general, we estimate within the National Party that the moment of effectiveness or excellence of the National Assembly cannot be the number of committees and commissions. Because the time when someone reacted to a social problem by setting up a commission or a subcommission was long gone. And we have seen that the number of committees and the number of committees of various working groups does not help to improve the quality of a particular matter or to resolve it for the benefit of citizens and citizens. According to our assessment, the working bodies proposed under the decree will only work successfully if the members and, above all, the chairmen of these working bodies have the feeling or, say, the flexibility to be prepared in addition to the letter of the Rules of Procedure or this Decision, to take up a number of other matters for their consideration. This means that we would not be disturbed within the National Party if we had only 10 working bodies, because everything depends on the people sitting in these working bodies. But it is true that in the previous term - and history is also to learn something from it - it was quite the other way around. Those working bodies, which were led by the so-called ruling majority or government parties, did not want to deal with the matter, namely the laws that come from individual Members, because they felt that it did not make sense to have the laws written by Members, even though it was the right of Members. In my opinion, this is even one of the duties, but of course we will not open the debate on this. In short, I call from this place on behalf of the Slovenian National Party to all those who will be members of individual working bodies, and in particular those who will lead working bodies, to be flexible in their work and to try to understand what is the reason or why they are acting as a Member. Not for themselves, but for helping society, the country, citizens and citizens to the best of their ability. And one of the forms of this assistance is also a quality law in every way, because we do not accept them for the sake of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because of us in the 1990s. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at a decision made by the College of the President of the National Assembly yesterday, namely that the College adopted the basic idea of the Slovenian National Party to include itself in the definition of works and tasks, including the area of job protection. As you probably all know, or I hope you know, if you don't know, I would strongly advise you to get acquainted with this - an analysis has been carried out in the past period, under the auspices of the previous government, on how many jobs will be threatened by EU entry in our country. In those political parties where we were able to obtain this document, which we later hid for quite a while within the government, we tried to react and protect jobs, not least by means of a law on the prevention of competition or by means of a law on acquisitions. However, we need to know that the government analysis indicates the number of 40,000 unemployed due to Slovenia's unwillingness to submit to the new guidelines for the new market. It is therefore very important that we adopted yesterday, on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, that one of the content of the work area of the Committee on the Economy is also job protection or, ultimately, posted on the proposal, in the same content of the "conditions for the establishment and preservation of jobs". In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is our desire, however, that the parent’s working bodies or that the working bodies of the national congregation, whatever they may be and with whatever content they may be, begin to do their work as soon as possible. And we will not oppose or delay this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of DeSus. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Our parliamentary group must say that it will support the amendment to the first chapter of the decree establishing the working bodies of Parliament. There's no substantive reason why I wouldn't do that. We also believe that the accumulation of labour content in individual working bodies is still too large, despite the fact that we have also supported the division and formation of some new working bodies. Our Group of Members is small, which is why it has already been burdened on a Member far more than a larger Group of Members, and we have had to literally give up direct membership and participation in some Committees when we agree that the number of members of individual working bodies of Parliament will be smaller. We focused mainly on those who are closer to our programme, but, of course, at individual points when interest and necessity are involved in the work of other bodies where we are not members, although without the right to vote. We believe that human rights and fundamental freedoms are the content that is certainly under control, I would say, to the general public in the country and in the world and in the European Union, to which we must be sensitive and considerate to the extent that we give it the opportunity to deal with it on a special committee, and that is why we will support this amendment. And that's why we don't see a reason not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Ms Pozsoncheva has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u24	The work in the working bodies of the National Assembly is very important, especially for the Member of the National Community. Since they are not members of any coalition, no one agrees with them in any way, so certain materials can only be obtained at the working body’s meeting itself. This is how professional work is done in the working bodies, so it is logical that the representatives of the national community should participate in more bodies than those Members who are members of other major groups of Members and who can divide the work. It is not about privileges, but about necessity, it is about understanding the specificity of the position of a Member of the national community. It is therefore not questionable to participate in the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, as it addresses the collective rights of the national communities in relation to education, culture and information. Nor is it questionable to participate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the home nation, for both Members. I could still count it. In my case, participation in the Transport Committee, due to the infrastructure backlog of Prekmurje, participation in the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the situation in Prekmurje agriculture, participation in the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs on social pressures. Members of the national community should therefore be allowed to operate where they themselves consider it necessary without humbly asking the leadership of the National Assembly for goodness and permission to participate in certain working bodies. However, my colleague and I have had this opportunity since 1990, and it has never happened that balance in the National Assembly has been disrupted. Yesterday's division of jobs in the workplaces was neither worthy nor fair, and even humiliating for a member of the national community. I saw the limited division itself as a pressure on me to make some decisions in haste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! It seemed good to me that we were already setting up all the working bodies and commissions at this meeting, not as it used to be, but as it used to be, it was long-term and there was the establishment of working bodies there for over half a year. And, of course, in the previous term, the Slovenian Commission, in place and around the world, began to operate only after half a year of operation of the National Assembly. This caused considerable damage, and it was difficult to repair it in the rest of the time. I am pleased that today the opposition, i.e. again in citing, has nevertheless found that most of their proposals have been taken into account, which of course was not a practice before and I fully agree with this way of listening and leading the national assembly as well as the college. I think the college was extremely competent and creative. I would also like to point out that there will be a need for a very quick start in some working bodies and, of course, a number of things that are already ready to do and continue working. In particular, I am pleased to note, in the entire previous mandate, the issue of local self-government, with regard to the financing of municipalities, with regard to investments, with regard to the maintenance of demographically endangered areas. Finally, we have, and again, a committee for local self-government and regional development. I hope that today or that, in this mandate, those who wish to introduce regionalism in the previous term will no longer oppose it through a change of constitution, so that, of course, it will now be significantly easier because we also have a special working body in Parliament for this purpose. Finally, in the last eight years, the differences between regions have unfortunately increased, the local communities have been subject to huge commitments, and the latter have not been made by these sources, or these differences have only increased. With the establishment of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, I am confident that this will be the end and that the differences in the Slovenian regions will also begin to be reduced in this area. The fact that the Transport Committee is one of the most important or one of those which is being followed by a living development shows, of course, by the current policy management in this area, where Prekmurje and Styria remained so allegedly cut off from the highway programme. Of course, during that time period when this should be built, it was not that many of the things were being moved in Styria and in Prekmurje, even though the majority of the area had members from the then ruling coalition. In short, there is a lot of work to be done here, and it is therefore one of the important working bodies for the development of these areas, and it is also important that this division has taken place between transport, environment and space. The burden of Members in working bodies, as is now envisaged, on three working bodies per Member, is correct because it is impossible to be present in a large number of working bodies, as many of these meetings are taking place. On the other hand, by increasing the number of people you cause indiscretion and non-conclusion sessions are in fact the original sin to accumulate work both in the working bodies and in Parliament. I myself will support such a decree as is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to three elements quickly at this point in the agenda. First of all, the question raised by Mrs Pozsončev in the presentation of her views. With this I would like to return on 9.11.2004 when we heard the speech of the current prime minister, then the candidate who said [[Quote]] "The Slovenians, who in various countries felt like a minority nation, now that we are in our own country, we must do everything to make the Italian and Hungarian communities feel like completely equal citizens. This means that we must always listen to their opinion" and so on [[End of label]] . I would like to point out that today, 17, we are already in other constellations, but yesterday, November 16th, if you will read carefully the Magnography of the College, which decided on the division of working bodies and also on the role of minority members, let me stress that the representative of the Nationality had no choice in which the working bodies wanted to participate, in short, they were subject to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure. The rules of procedure have been violated, not only that, but also - as has already been said by Mrs Pozsonchev - dignity. Not only have you not had this opportunity, which you, the President, have said you will fix - and I hope we will face this correction - but even their presence has been included in the number of jobs in the opposition's working bodies, and thus the relationship has been broken [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Mrs. Shirca, we're at point one.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u30	The second point I would like to draw attention to is the issue of the Commission on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the policy of equal opportunities, which is now expected to come up with a petition commission. As you have seen, we also support the disengagement of this commission - an amendment has been tabled, and we will be able to discuss it - but I would like to turn to the point just stated. Mr Zammernik, you have said that human rights and equal opportunities will not be violated any more than they have been before if this commission, which we want and which we consider reasonable, will not be in this mandate at all. The deduction from your performance is, of course, going in the direction that rights are violated. Indeed they were, but here we should ask ourselves whether we had enough ways to change their minds, define them, and act. It is because we believe that these paths have not been enough that we are now coming with the initiative to set up this commission, not only because of the situation in question, not only because of the observation and thorough reading of the proposal of a coalition treaty, which I suppose will direct the future direction of Slovenia, because we do not follow the same options as human rights. Neither their status, nor their way of solving, except for one item where the Ombudsman is mentioned. But these are not common human rights that we want to support ourselves. We also believe that it is incompatibilities when human rights are in some way put aside by those whom they define as a possibility to petition, as recorded not only in the constitution, but also in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, concern is necessary. I could give you a number of reasons, including those that I have read both in the binding address of the current mandate holder and those that I am reading in the proposal for a coalition treaty. Let's just say that there is only one issue of temporary employment, which is supposed to be the priority direction of this government, but we know that in 2002 employment increased significantly for a certain period of time in women, to 14%, while men have 10%, which means that social protection and care are significantly reduced here. And if I touch on the third question that I hope someone else will attract him, it is the question of the treatment and distribution of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which has now been divided into the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. I believe that the separation into low education and higher education, as proposed, will also cause a lot of problems due to the complexity of the issues that culture and the border also touches on the media, including the nonsense that we will face when we share low and high education, if I can so badly define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. However, I must strongly reject the claim that the College has violated its rules of procedure. We continue the debate. Mr Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that the establishment of a new commission or the division of the proposed existing commission into a commission for petitions and a committee for human rights and equal opportunities would be a meaningful and necessary action. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that the Commission for the same opportunities as a self-employed body has already existed. And given that the Commission has been transferred in the process of shrinking the number of working bodies, its independent activity to a committee that also covered this part of the content, I cannot agree that, at a time when we are increasing the number of working bodies, we do not have the hearing to set up a single commission. The establishment of a stand-alone commission would not merely be a symbolic gesture to indicate our seriousness in the area in which we adopted a law on equal opportunities in the past term. And if I focus only on the same options, I believe that the establishment of a stand-alone commission would be a step forward, as it says, from the disharmony that we have repeatedly identified in almost all areas of our lives or in the functioning of all our institutions. Given the poor image of women's participation in decision-making, both at national and local level, it is the decision to establish a separate working body gesture, which will further encourage women's participation in decision-making on active participation in various decision-making processes. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that by adopting the proposed amendment we would establish a working body that would facilitate cooperation with the European Union and, of course, with individual countries within the European Union. And if memory doesn't fool me, at the time of the adoption of the law on equal opportunities of effort, we also linked ourselves to the creation of a self-employed body. However, we have also verified our seriousness in the previous term by voting and, of course, by amending the Constitution for the purposes of equal opportunities. And if I briefly define myself until the other changes envisaged; I agree that it is reasonable to divide when we decide that we will have more committees, and to set up a self-employed body for the field of local self-government and regionalism, regional development, and I doubt that this working body will be the one that will guarantee that in the coming term we will change the constitution and, on the basis of this change, introduce the provinces into our system. But I think, like I said, this solution makes sense. It will be much more important, of course, how it will be organised and how the ministry will work in this area, and we will be able to learn something soon. I also assess that the Health Committee, as a self-employed body, is a good solution, given the size of the activities covered and the difficulties we face in doing this, which will enable quality work in this branch of government, is said to be within the national assembly. That is why I believe that this committee makes sense to set up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Bayuk has the floor. He's quitting. Followed by Mr. Kangler, he's gone. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would point out only two points or two issues. In fact, the first thing we have been or have been paying attention to in the Slovenian National Party is the question of the number of division of labour bodies. In fact, only three working bodies come to one Member after some calculations and, in fact, according to our assessment, in this way, it is in some way impossible to monitor quality and, of course, to deal with laws on the home bodies, on those working bodies where these laws or proposals are actually dealt with, are assigned; in short, on the home work bodies. As far as the second issue I will point out is concerned, the so-called human rights, which in fact has been discussed for several hours in this new term of office of the National Assembly. The question, which, at the same time after 12 years of the rule or leadership of the country by the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats, became relevant and, on the other hand, the question arises as to whether the parties or Members mentioned had not found anything wrong with their arrogant and ignorant policies after 12 years. On the other hand, the continuing concern for the enjoyment of human rights was exercised within the framework of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia through the Commission for Petitions. And with a petition commission, or specifically with human rights in this area, we also had a lot of work or regular cooperation in the Slovenian National Party, as we received daily requests for such assistance from citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As I have already said, human rights are important, they are relevant, and the fact is that human rights fall within different fields of work and I should remind myself that work is also one of human rights. As I have already mentioned some form of misdirection or cynicism by the previous ruling coalition, this has been sufficient in a number of laws, which have also addressed the subject of human rights. Let me mention here the amendment to the Penal Code, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure by the Slovenian National Party, with which we actually wanted to cut down or in the field of human rights to protect those people who actually need such protection, was about protecting the victims of various sexual offences, not just that. I will only mention for the end the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, which has been voted on or has not been voted on to establish a self-employed working body covering a wide range of disability issues. People with disabilities are often violated human rights, and unfortunately this proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Squire. Mr. Battelli has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Quite often inspired counterintelligences or says, I don't know, tell me to be concrete, tell me exactly what's wrong, where something doesn't work and so on. Of course, I answer them, and I also repeat now that, for example, the concept, the word solidarity, if spoken in some European context, has a very precise meaning, which is also understandable. And this word, which is actually based on the construction of the European Union, is something that has no ideological color. The regulation of the Republic of Slovenia is based on solidarity, on many levels. The Constitution is based on this concept, and this also concerns the situation of national communities or different by language and culture. Now to act as if this does not exist and deny the fullness of mandates, to ideologicalize the situation of national communities, to politicise this, is wrong and causes problems. It causes trouble for people who cannot resist such pressures at all. That's not what this company needs. Nor do we need paternalism, broad-mindedness, nor do we need hierarchical categories when dealing with the human situation in this society. It is therefore likely that it is good to respect the arrangement as long as it is in force and not act as if it does not apply. As a result, it is likely also good to take into account the rules of procedure of the National Assembly on certain issues. I will support this decision in order to commit those responsible to take into account the full mandate of Members of the national communities in this way. Because it's a recurring situation. So, for the first time, it happened in 1992, then in 1996, then in 2000, and now it's happening again in 2004, every time we've gone beyond this seeming mystery, but every time we have to put our working bodies together, everything starts to spin at this same point. This is of course pressure, it is a message that for certain categories of people in this country there is no legal certainty, but that what is the norm, the matter of arbitration, the one that happens to be in some majority position, in a political sense. And that's unacceptable. It's denial of the rule of law. At the moment when Slovenia is placed internationally, finally, even with our work, when it is a member of the European Union, it makes no sense to me that national communities are not placed in Slovenia. Is it necessary to imitate the eagerness of others? Do we really need this? What do we all have in common as a community that is supposed to be solidarity? What do we get out of this? What group is being emancipated, civil or material, or whatever, by doing so? None. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Pike has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Within our parliamentary groups, we have addressed this issue quite extensively. I myself have thought about this and have come to the conclusion that the working bodies make sense to cover all areas in order to make such a proposal a good one. I know everyone's not gonna be happy. We just have different views. However, as far as human rights are concerned, the point is that they already existed in the previous term, and I see no reason not to respect them in this mandate or otherwise. And I see no reason why we should now set up a special commission. I will stand by myself to ensure that human rights are respected. I think that the solution we have proposed is good and quality. But I will always stress the quality of work in the working bodies, so I hope that from all the parliamentary groups, people, Members who are on the professional side and who also want to work in these working bodies will act in a quality manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! Every time I went to the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sports, I was brainwashed by this old Latin thought: "Meus sana and corpore sana." - Healthy spirit in a healthy body. On the one hand, we extended the cultural and educational spheres to the Slovenians, and on the other hand we cared for a healthy body in the field of sports. And since the committee has only dealt with 29 laws in four years, that means that if you divide by four and about seven more laws a year, it seems to me that this committee was not too burdened by work and could continue as such in the future. However, it seems to me that the choice of these, the opposition, now that the Ministry of Education has been divided into two parts, has also divided the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sports, into not a good one. I think we should listen, keep this committee as complete as it was. But since you're not in college to listen to this, you'd be trying to find another version of this same committee in two working bodies. But it's the next one. Personally, I believe that the decision that culture belongs to sport, that culture belongs to kindergarten and that culture belongs to adult education, that what culture means in national terms is a wrong decision and that culture seems to be a better place to belong to higher education and science. Look, I'll just give you a few arguments. For the first time, higher education studies take place in all areas, among other things we know a lot of artistic study programmes at the university, such as teaching and useful arts, three academies - ALO, AGRFT and the Academy of Music - train these people and also lead national policy in this area. Then we have architecture here in higher education, then we have Slavicism in higher education, comparative literature, cultural studies, translation studies, restorative studies, graphic techniques studies, and we could list. And one more thing, from the area of higher education will be the construction of all three academies and, what is more, the National and University Library will be built from the area of higher education. In Slovenia, because of our smallness, we have merged the university library with the National Library, and this is one of the largest projects and supplies that await us in the coming period, and it would make sense for this issue to be addressed in the same working body, not in the university within the meaning of the Higher Education Committee, but in the sense of that part of the Committee dealing with sport, etc. The resolution on the national programme for culture 2004-2007 also states in its foreword: "Individual decision on the achievement of the objective and priority of the national programme for culture." I think that we have been the first Parliament of our own country, which voted this national programme, not in the hands of the state, but in the hands of the state, but in the hands of a legally defined participation - which is us - the cultural, professional, especially higher education, the scientific, where this second part of the committee is, and of course the critical public of the distribution procedures. The general cultural priorities of 2004-2007 are: firstly, education for professions in culture and in the national programme, and this content is much more part of the higher education committee than in the committee which is roasted with kindergartens, adult education, primary school and sports. And the information in culture, it links to the information society. We are now in a period of time when there will be more and more in culture that the trend in culture will also begin to move in the direction of the information society in planning. For this reason, it would be a much more meaningful culture to put in a segment of higher education and science. It should also be said that 8 laws on culture, education, youth, science and sport, 8 laws on higher education, a total of 16, 6 laws on education, kindergartens and so on, and 7 laws on education as a whole have been dealt with in the 2000-2004 mandate. So if we move that over there, we get a half-and-a-half, 50-50. But if that stays there, and we get -- sorry, I'll use the ugly term again, as I was quoted last time -- "de luxe" a working body that would have a very small scale, and on the other hand, as a Slovenian, it hurts me most to leave the culture where, after all these arguments that I've written, it doesn't belong to the city. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, without any criticism of my proposal for a bad decision, I would suggest that you consider this very much when voting. And if you care about Slovenian culture - which I believe is all of you - let us try together to find one of the best solutions in this field and at least move the area of culture to higher education and science, not to leave it in sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u42	Mr President, fellow Members and fellow Members! We have a very important decision ahead of us, because this decision will make it up to the organisation of work in this national assembly. And because I already have four years of experience for myself, I can say that in the past this work has not been best organised. Some committees - I was a member of the Infrastructure Committee myself - were significantly too large. I don't know how the committee led by my colleague Mogo, but the Infrastructure Committee dealt with the topics from the radiation law to the maritime code, which had itself over a thousand articles, to the Triglav National Park; practically, this committee has held a permanent session and, as such, has not been able to adopt quality laws. And we will soon meet in this national assembly that many of these laws will have to be rectified. If I only mention the construction law, Article 218 - the unsustainable situation that this article has brought about, when some people now receive astronomical sites for the payment of unwalled buildings, it is essentially in nature for fields, meadows, vineyards and the like. So, I want to show you how impossible it was for such a committee to work because there were too many cases and we couldn't get any deeper, the opposition, of course, who doesn't have all the apparatus that the ruling coalition has, has warned about some things, but unfortunately there was no hearing to follow, and then there were additional problems for that reason. So I think that the distribution of this committee is, of course, on-the-spot, although I don't know about other committees, because I didn't work there, but a few committees are new because of the different organisation of the government, but it is necessary to say this because what the media are constantly pointing out is that now the committees will be really more, but that they will be approved by a number of smaller ones, so that each Member, as in the previous term, will operate in a maximum of three working bodies of the National Assembly, and that is a fact. I think that this division is okay and that it follows that actually working on these committees will be better, easier. If I am not mistaken, he had an infrastructure committee, I think 28 members, which was almost a third of Parliament - on one committee. It is true, however, that the increase in the number of committees, the Commission, brings behind it many organisational problems. In fact, according to our Rules of Procedure, there may be at the same time a maximum of two working bodies and if the number of committees is increasing, this of course requires a different distribution of technical services, then requires more space, more offices, and this will of course be a problem that will need to be resolved. That is why I have not agreed to extend the number of committees or commissions to areas where this is not necessary. And I think that the decision of the college, which lasted yesterday, I think four hours or more, was right to include these human rights and equal opportunities in the petition committee. In fact, I understand this insistence of the United Nations and the Liberal Democracy in these positions to set up a new commission more than a demonstration, that in Slovenia it is actually an institutional violation of human rights. This, of course, is strongly opposed; this is not a fact in Slovenia; it is true that we have all said that we need to do much more in the field of the rule of law and that this is also one of those matters that has led to the change of power, so we will never do anything to protect human rights, but I am not sure that it is necessary to establish some new commissions, new committees. After all, we will have a petition commission that can deal with this, we will set up, we will have. In addition, we have the Ombudsman, who informs us every year with his report and draws attention to the greatest problems in our society. We have a human rights constitution, we have an independent judiciary, after all, as I mentioned before, we also have every four years democratic elections, where people can assess the extent to which these injustices have been violated. I think that the level of democracy in the Slovenian country is increasing, that the protection of these democratically acquired rights, as I have said, is being done at different levels and that, of course, we cannot expect the creation of a single commission to increase the protection of human rights and equal opportunities as it has been. Of course, each additional commission means so much and so much trouble in the organisational sense and in the allocation of technical services themselves in the National Assembly. So I certainly do not support the additional establishment of any commission in the direction of rationalisation. I think that the petition commission can carry out this part of the task, as it has been written, and I will support the ruling as adopted yesterday by the College of the President of the National Assembly, and today it has been transmitted to us together with the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think that the change in the government law is also due to today's decision, which is adapted to it, which is perfectly logical. Yesterday's session of the five-hour college - I think it was very patient leading the president, and also the dialogue that was going on, most of it I listened to him try to please all the parliamentary groups. However, it is, of course, impossible to accommodate all parliamentary groups and even fewer Members. The compromise has been achieved and, according to my assessment, a good one and I will, of course, support it myself, especially for some reasons that I have supported all along and our client. First of all, the Infrastructure Committee, which in the previous term was a reference too extensive, too wide, too many members of the Committee, many times unconscioned, so many problems and problems had - I myself have been on this committee on several occasions due to the power plant at the bottom of the Savi - and I must say that this distribution is a meaningful, rational and also a good traveller for the new government. Last but not least, I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues and all those who supported the story which seemed to me very much neglected in the previous term; this is a committee for local self-government and regional development, because this story has been abandoned in this Slovenia for four years and many municipalities are still on the tail, still alive - working in terms of funding. Of course, it is also good that the government has accepted this area - local self-government development. Perhaps with one small regret that this is not a self-resort, because it seems to me that this would be the best and very good thing for me as mayor of one municipality. However, I am pleased with this committee, I am also pleased that it will be led by a fellow mayor and Member Rupar, who knows this story well. And I believe that he would have had his hands full to try these many problems that have accumulated in all these years in local communities and regions, somehow to get ahead. And I also hope for a more friendly attitude of the country towards the local communities, to the municipalities, not least there are 193 of them, and they each have their own problems. And I wish this committee much success on this path, and I believe that it will also succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u46	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about a decree, which was also mentioned at the college yesterday, but I would like to remind you that the content of the decree we are talking about has also been discussed before and that this decree is actually the result of a change in the law on government. Last but not least, I think that this first-party decree, which lists 17 committees in addition to those five permanent committees or committees that they are, and it also has its contents, which I think today, apart from my colleague, Mr Pečet has not yet discussed - but let us leave it. If the content is already about how many committees, what would be right or wrong, let me say a few words myself in this regard. Four years ago, when the idea was given that energy and mining, as a single ministry and then from the economy, was transferred to the environment and space, I personally pointed out that those two sectors were not being judged there, but today, when the State of the Republic of Slovenia is in the European Union and where the rules of play and behaviour are such that it is energy and mining that actually belongs to the environment and space, it was a common consensus and agreement that it is now going to the economy. Okay! I think it was a common consensus, because it applies: for everything will never be anything or all good, someone wants something, someone else something else. Let's keep going. If we take domestic policy: how long have we warned in the Committee on Internal Policy in the previous term that this committee has been absolutely overloaded? And thank God it came to this. I would also personally ask myself whether the public administration could not move to the local self-government and public administration committee and regional development, I have this right, but I believe in the agreement that has emerged and in the form that we have before us today. More heads know more, I think some consensus was reached, as well as confirmation of college yesterday. Let me warn you again, for the third time, the Slovenian National Party has absolutely warned that a disability committee as a stand-alone committee would be needed. Okay, well, now that we're not going to be fighting and speculating in this house, I think that the common decision is smart, but that the Committee on Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities is as it is, and it is important that this content be considered within this committee. If you allow me, I am personally the first to do so, but the consensus that must be within this party is the consensus that must be between colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the parliamentary groups who have received a mandate from people, and of course also at the top to form two committees: the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports and the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. I myself am the first and only one to unite these two committees into one committee. But I had to reach consensus, and I have to follow the instructions and the opinion of the party, just as I respect the decision that such a division, which is now created, is a consensus that this is the best division. Once again, I am personally not here to see if culture will be in education or if culture will be in higher education. Since, after all, my respected colleague Moze was right only in part; but he did not have the whole, because it is, for example, a primary or secondary music school, which is a cultural institution and also a culture - I am commending. That is why I say - Mr Mogue, there is no need to replicate - I say that it would be good if these two committees were united into one, because culture is a broad concept. But that's the decision and the decision. I am counting on the fact that, after all the discussions on the contents, it has been concluded and agreed that in addition to the five standing committees, seventeen other committees and committees have been formed. But I would only, Mr President, touch the content. I don't object to the content I'm going to mention. This is the Foreign Policy Committee on page 5, point 9, which states in the eleventh indent: "The Foreign Policy Committee shall, in accordance with the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, address matters of the European Union in the field of foreign and security policy and related external activities of the European Union, including matters of enlargement of the European Union." My personal conviction is that the issue of enlargement of the European Union is exclusively within the European Affairs Committee's domain, which is being formed. Well, even if this is a matter in the foreign policy committee's domain, let me draw attention to the content on page 7, where the content of the work of the European Union Affairs Committee does not specifically mention in any of the paragraphs the content that the European Affairs Committee addresses issues of enlargement of the European Union - which, of course, is too late, it should have said yesterday, but you know that the college has been so long that we have lost some of them. I think it would be right that, at least in this part - perhaps we will still propose an amendment - we will also include substantively in the Committee on European Affairs: "The Committee on European Affairs solves issues or is the question of enlargement of the European Union among its core activities." For I must point out, however, that in European matters, where it is clear that the Committee on European Affairs deals exclusively with matters of the European Union, with the exception of matters of foreign and security policy, which is perfectly logical, because this is the matter of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In short, here is the substantive part that I wanted to comment on as a member of the Slovenian National Party. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, we respect that this decision has arisen after many discussions, that it has also been formed on the basis of a change in the government law, that we also have a different desire or desire, and that we must finally respect the will of all those who, after hours and hours of discussions and sitting together with us at the college yesterday, have come to this solution. And I will also respect the solution, which is the work of all and also the conclusion of the College, which must be respected, and the decree of this moment has been supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. I must say that it is still time to table an amendment by the end of the general debate. Mr. Mogue raised his hand for the replica, as I understand, but allow me, I did not notice that they were misinterpreted. If you think you've been misinterpreted, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u48	Actually, he was talking about what he thinks I should say, but I didn't say, it's about high school. We also have lower music schools, my friend, we also have in kindergartens where these things begin to seal. But I think if I were a member of the National Party, I wouldn't support such a decision, but I would set up two working bodies, the first working body would be a cultural committee, and the second working body would be an education committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. [[Back-up advertising.]] There was neither a replica nor please proceed with the debate. [[...]] Mr. Luci has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u50	Dear President, President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is extremely gratifying to see committees and commissions formed so quickly and that there are no major contradictions between the political options for rapid action as well. I was the initiator myself, and I also support the establishment of a local self-government committee to separate health care from such an extensive committee, as this is also the problem. And even with regard to the Committee on Disability, it would probably be good to think: a lot of unresolved matters, just as it concerns the disabled themselves, disability organizations themselves, would probably suggest that this should be considered. However, the establishment of committees and commissions, as we see, is some work that is changing, i.e. the pursuit. The process itself will show whether this is necessary, whether it is necessary and whether persons with disabilities do not find sufficient attention in this committee they are now in. It is also extremely important to me that energy has been placed in the right place, i.e. the economy, and, of course, this delicate area, which is so strongly linked to our national economy, must also be treated very carefully. I think it's right that she came to the right place. And another amendment, which is on the table - otherwise it is not time for amendments, but if you allow it, in deep thought - if culture really belongs where it is placed. In our parliamentary group, we will probably still consider supporting this amendment of the Liberal Democracy. The culture of the soul and the artistic soul is, of course, something different, such as primary, secondary education and also children's kindergartens. We will probably think about this further before we decide on the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Lucia. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that I myself cannot agree with the designation of the Commission of the State Council for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. It seems, in fact, that these human rights are already in the title just like some kind of pendant. We must be aware, however, that the right to petition is only one of the fundamental freedoms and human rights are, of course, a much broader concept. For this reason, I find it totally, even from this constitutional or legal point of view unacceptable to call this commission. And, you want to -- you don't want to, we have to admit, no matter what I just said, the concern for human rights and fundamental freedoms is actually now facing great challenges. This is what we wanted to stress in our proposal in particular. On the one hand, new technological and scientific progress raises a number of issues relating to the protection of human rights in the field of biomedicine and bioethics, in the area of intrusion into privacy, in relation to the protection of personal data, etc. In the name of, for example, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime, and the fight against organised crime, there is increasing interference with human privacy and dignity, which must be carefully studied and prevented from being misused. So it is no longer just and exclusively about the so-called classic human rights and fundamental freedoms, and these proposals do not have anything to do with the change of power in this country after the elections - they may have it, of course, but I hope it will not. It is worth noting, however, that the ratification of international conventions, the gold of European conventions in the field of human rights, is ongoing in the National Assembly, and it would also indicate that it is particularly important to keep a close eye on the extent to which they are respected, implemented in our domestic legislation and then, of course, implemented. And on this committee, I think it would be an opportunity for that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger-Bebler. Mr. Horvath, Joseph Horvat has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I very much welcome all of you, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members. I understand the content of the proposal for a decree establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular as regards committees, as a logical continuation of the adopted amendment to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act and the amendment to the Law on State Administration. It is clear from the proposed tasks of the parliamentary committees that these are compatible and compatible with the work areas of the adequate ministries. In particular, I think it is good that the tasks of individual parliamentary committees explicitly include the task of dealing with matters of the European Union, which, of course, are tanning individual committees. Here, I would also like to express my agreement with the Commission's proposal for defined tasks for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The establishment of a new Commission on Human Rights and equal opportunities could also lead, among other things, to the establishment of new commissions, so I do not think it is necessary, even though human rights are for me personally - and I am sure for all of us - the basis of the parliamentary action. The functioning of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia seems crucial to the functioning of the entire national assembly, so I want the parliamentary groups to have a happy hand in the recruitment of the individual working body, and I want all the working bodies to work very successfully and productively for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u56	Respectable present. In my opinion, both amendments, one tabled by the United List of Social Democrats and the other by the Liberal Democracy, talking about the establishment of a special commission for the protection of human rights and freedoms and equal opportunities, are essentially merely a desire to raise attention and not a desire to solve actual problems. There are several reasons for this belief, most of which have already been told by colleagues from my parliamentary group in my performances, to repeat them only briefly: you opposed all the laws tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group in the previous term and touched on the very protection of human rights; you opposed the establishment of a disability committee, which also falls within the human rights framework. Last but not least, in the resolution we are voting on today, under point 1, the Committee on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, you have written in the last indent: "as an interested working body, consider the proposals of laws and other acts relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms." I think that this commission is enough for itself to protect human rights, but as one of the members of the LDS at one of the previous meetings said, the times are changing and people are changing with them - I really hope that with the fall of the opposition, you too will change and that I will give you the opportunity to prove it to me and I will not oppose both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I myself would - although there is some obvious and pronounced opposition to the proposal we have on the table, except of course in certain areas - say something about why it seems to me that such proposals on the table are justified or why certain committees are envisaged to be set up or split. I am sure that this proposal is well thought out and well founded, but it would focus on only one area, which is the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regionalism. I come from the Podravje area myself, and I know exactly what the situation is. In this area, I must say that the differences between regions in Slovenia are noticeable if we compare this by the number of unemployed, by the amount of wages, by the gross domestic product and by any other indicator. Unfortunately, Podravje is not the only area, unfortunately, where some indicators are worse, even more so. Around this harmonious development, the reduction of differences between regions has also been more pronounced in this respectable assembly, but unfortunately the situation as it is shows that it has been less done. As a result of this decision to set up a stand-alone committee on local self-government and regionalism, this is not a question at all, but the question is why such a committee has not been set up before. Otherwise, I also support the full text of this original decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u60	Thank you, for your word. Much has already been said, and I will join in supporting the proposed decision myself. With regard to the amendments tabled, however, I would only say the following. There is always a limit to the establishment of commissions, working bodies, each body. I think that the Special Commission on Human Rights actually means finding that the situation in this area has deteriorated in recent years, or in some way wants to set up a formal body to look at whether the National Assembly adheres to the basic rules of international treaties in its work, etc. I think that there is already a body set up at the level of the whole country, which is the Ombudsman, who is also reporting to the National Assembly. In any event, however, the direction of each committee, each Member, is one of the basic guidelines in order to ensure that it works primarily in such a way as not to violate human rights or to promote them as much as possible in its work. Otherwise, we know - the already well-known word of Slovenia - that the establishment of a commission means that nothing in that area would actually happen, and I think that the special establishment of such a commission would actually bring something like this. The Commission for Petitions in the previous term did not have much work to do in order to avoid this aspect of the hearing. And I think it was constructive on the part of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly that, at the request of the applicants, he was trying to reach a compromise and complemented the content of the Commission for Petitions with their proposals. And, of course, I think it is also respect for human rights, including that we are trying to reach compromises in the National Assembly and not just apply our proposals at all costs. And I think that, in this sense, the College of the National Assembly has been constructive and, as the proposed proposal, is also acceptable in this spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr. Prevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am also expressing my own joy, as some have before me, that the proposal to set up working bodies is already on the table, which, of course, opens up opportunities for us to actually start working as soon as possible and to do so actively in our areas. Clearly, not all the desires of individuals are realized by this proposal, for the desire is great. However, I am convinced that both the College of the National Assembly and the Applicant have tried to find some of the greatest consensus possible. I'm sure he did, after all. I am sure that they have come from experience over the past years and, above all, on the basis of these experiences, it is proposed that such an expansion as we have here on this paper is proposed because it has probably been difficult to work in such broad committees in the previous term. Like many speakers before me, especially those who are also mayors, of course expressed the greatest joy over the 11th point, where we can read that, of course, it is also included in this motion for a decree by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The fact is that, of course, in recent years in local self-government we have yet to feel, I will say, a very stepmotherly attitude towards the problem of municipalities, to the problem of local communities. And I am sure that this matter will improve in this area. I am also convinced, given the tasks that have been defined here somewhere, as far as this committee is concerned, that we will not be stabbing and dealing with new municipalities as a priority, but that we will be on this committee or that this committee will deal mainly with the current problem in local communities, as you believe many municipalities, many local communities are before the financial collapse. And if these congregations have already been established, let them, of course, take care of them, not merely to assign new and new assignments to these congregations, which are far from financially supported. To conclude, whether we are all satisfied with this motion for a decision or not, the fact is that it will actually depend on us, as has already been said, which will work in these committees, what quality of work will be in these committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr. Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u64	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The good composition of the committees is somehow a condition for the successful work of the National Assembly. I believe that this proposal, which is before us today, is a good proposal, so I will also support it. 17 committees and 5 permanent committees allow us to make it easier to enforce our demands, our rights, and to make it easier to represent the electoral body that elected us. I think it's time for changes in the methodology of the work of the National Assembly after 12 years, and that's right. I hope that we will make it easier to exercise our will, our desire to be more constructive in this way. I believe that a major error, as my fellow Members in the parliamentary group have already warned that the disabled as a special category, did not get their own handicapped category in society, did not get the essence of their committee, but I am pleased that we have introduced a new preamble to the Committee on the Economy, namely the constitutional right set out in Article 66 of the Constitution, which speaks of job protection. This is a constitutional right to work. We all refer to new jobs, which should be a daily occurrence in Slovenian society, but they are not. To a new added value that we are not creating, and I think that the loss of 40,000 jobs after some assessment, this can be a very big handicap for us if we don't prepare for it. That's why I think we have a lot of work to do. I will also be able to participate personally in this committee, and I hope that we can also propose constructive solutions so that this will not happen. Because new jobs create new added value and a new added value means a better standard for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The founding act that we are adopting today is certainly very important for the continuation of the work of the National Assembly, particularly when we are talking about constructive work. Since I have been working or working for ten years and working in the local self-government, I know when we were constructive at the meeting - when the working bodies did their job well. I personally consider it to be the same in the National Assembly. In view of the number of bodies proposed, I believe that the number of jobs is particularly closely linked to the work tasks of the ministries. And I think it's a good proposal and I'll support it. It is essential that the working body covers all areas of work and thus the proposal is prepared. However, I must say that I am also very pleased that a committee on local self-government and regional development is being set up. As has already been said, we certainly expect those powers and tasks that have been imposed on us at the state level over the past period to be valued in the future, or that the local communities can work. Once again, let me stress that the proposal is a good one and I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Brenčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In this way, those who have a slightly more detailed or genuine monitoring of the structural or structural structure of the state budget may find that, year after year, we have a very progressive increase in all the resources needed for the life or functioning of the state and general public administration. And given the impact this has on the country as a whole, I expect and also claim that this is a major challenge for the current new government coalition, how to change this trend. In this sense, I am not impressed or even indifferent, because part of this state administration is also a national assembly, so that we increase the scope or increase the number of working bodies in this regard. I can't get past this because it's been my warning trend for some time now that I've been in politics. Secondly, it is based on knowledge of what this last Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly entails, which practically "gross" of all work in the legislative process imposes on the working body. And the quality of the legislation that this national assembly is adopting depends, in many ways or largely, on the way in which the labour body was prepared by the law. And given some experience from the last term, I can say that the working body needs to be given more flexibility than it has had so far. In this sense, however, this new structural, or whatever we say, cuts in labour bodies in the National Assembly are positive in this sense. However, from practice, we know that now that this decision is being adopted, we are facing the leadership of the National Assembly, I think, a great challenge for the expert teams to enable this large number of bodies to synchronize their work as well. So far, we have had great difficulties in how to organise work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, especially those we have had working bodies that are always strongly supported by the civil initiative and so on. So I see here a pretty big problem that's going to have to be solved very quickly or immediately. In this respect, I support this new establishment of working bodies in the National Assembly. In doing so, I don't think it's right or wrong that today those who are in a different position than the largest government party in terms of rationalisation came at a similar time with the contraction of some working bodies, especially on the Commissions for Equal Opportunities and Commissions for Persons with Disabilities, today come in a different role and bring back the Commission for Equal Opportunities, to a slightly different extent. I can say that I supported this at the time, because I am in favour of rationalising and reducing the costs of the state administration. It turned out, however, that this committee, which also had people with disabilities in a wide and complex area, had done practically for the disability protection system as a whole a great deal more than before; we practically put all the necessary legislation under the roof. I therefore expect that, given that the number of committees alone is smaller, the expectations that are on the labour market can be more pronounced in practice. I'll support the ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I support the proposal of this decree and, above all, I am pleased that the 11th item summarizes local self-government, because as a member of the municipality of Škofja Loka, I think this point will be very useful and will come to the smaller municipalities very well. I know that all these desires and proposals cannot be taken into account or too many. That is why I think that this Commission for Human Rights is more than one commission and that this expansion of working bodies or quantity will not make us of quality. This area already covers the Ombudsman and I think that this is some kind of distrust of the Ombudsman. In addition, the prevailing situation is due to previous governments and now to change something means to change things back or it will be like some kind of correctional exam for things that previous governments have not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ziherl. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u72	What I'm good at is the point of what I was going to say, Mr. Brenčič's performance. I am firmly convinced, as I was four years ago, that the number of working bodies proposed is significantly too large because I have dealt with the rules of procedure and the organisation of the national assembly since the establishment itself, and also with some comparisons with other parliaments. The fact is that this has come about in some way by pushing where something would have been, because consistency in this decree is simply not. It is not consistently respected what it should have been for a particular area of the Ministry, which is often said to have a committee, a working body, a pandan in the National Assembly, dealing with the exact subject of the Ministry. It's not like that. As on the other hand, there are some things that are to some extent unbalanced. There are more things that need to be done in one’s work bodies; in others, there will be questions on the agenda that will be of an occasional nature that will not have a legal basis in terms of the treatment of laws as work-forces, but anything else that will be on the agenda. Of course, it all depends on how an individual coalition is established and how it thinks it will be best for them to carry out this mission. I would have liked to have, in the shortest possible time, if there had been no willingness or willingness to form a group of all parliamentary groups that would have gone through the Rules of Procedure, through their comments on the Rules of Procedure, and to find out which things had been identified as a weakness in the work of the National Assembly. Here it would be very good if you thought it was you, but now it's us and now, of course, we're going to fix or eliminate what you've been doing wrong. This will not lead the National Assembly to some higher form of action if you want, or to a higher reputation, but in a situation where no coalitions have been established, reach agreement between at least 60 Members and make rules in Parliament that would be best for functioning. This includes, of course, a decree and all decisions on the composition of working bodies, on working methods, on coordinations, on connections, etc. This is what, in fact, me as, say, the one that I was most criticized in the previous term, how there were no arrangements, how there was no coordination, etc., it really hurt. Well, believe it or not. I'm just an MP from the beginning, and I'm performing when we were in the opposition, and when we were in the opposition and then even now. Mr. Cuckoo, we can, because we have time, there is no need, but I am not moving away from the decree. It will be very difficult for you to argue now that I am not talking about the decision and the way you work in the National Assembly. It's gonna be very hard for you to do that. But you can also hang up, there's no problem. When we talk about the decree, there has also been a speech by some other discussers that we have this Rules of Procedure and this Rules of Procedure are speaking, Mr Sok, I think he was talking about that we are actually limited, no matter what we want to do, we are limited by certain regulations. And this decree is not very synchronous with those provisions. My suggestion is that we take this decision. I will also talk about the amendments, but in order for the assembly to work effectively, you will be in charge and in the college try to do something about these things in these early months of the new Parliament's operation. But as for the other things, because at first glance it is also so that we can really talk about less important things, we are insinuating whether one working body will be more or one working body less. It would be very difficult to say that the enlargement in this mandate or in the previous mandate of the number of working bodies is the same, because here the higher-a-governance of the law on government and organisation or the law on state regulation has simply changed some things and this decree is also due to this. As for these other enlargements, I think it is always necessary to think every day, in every decision, in every human rights law. I was worried when I heard that there would be no more human rights violations in this mandate - someone said that. So that means they will, because they did before, and because they did before, they can now. No, it's not. Every day, in every decision, every step should bear this in mind. This is what must be our fundamental mission, and there is never too many words spoken in the protection of human rights, in the protection of certain minorities, in the protection of some who cannot help themselves. Someone even said that the proposed legal solutions to the protection of human rights were in the previous mandate, but the coalition did not take them into account. We are indeed able to overlook something, but it is very difficult to say that the position was the one that advocated that the Roma issue should not be properly settled, but from the congregations to the laws up here; that the issue of deleted and more and more things should not be settled. We could've found out something else sooner. And another lady said there would be an end to some arrogance, and I don't know what else. All right. But this commission obviously judges for human rights and the protection of human freedoms precisely because of those on behalf of whom this lady, the lady, spoke. All the things I heard about those speakers in Parliament in the previous term and what I hear now that they are not even going to beer with the others, and so on, of course, are still necessary. Yes, yes, Mr Vice President, current, stated that with black [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u73	Well, Mr. Anderlich, that's really not the topic of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u74	Yes, it is a topic, so we need a commission to protect human rights and freedoms in order to defend ourselves against those closest to us, if you want to, and, of course, I advocate that this is, but really not because of this topic, I know that it hurts you, Mr President, also because of similar matters, but this is a very second discussion. But I think, like I said, it's never too much, every day, every step of the way, every case, even though it seems to someone that we're living in an ideally regulated country and that until yesterday everything was wrong and today will be different. Life goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Bajc has the floor, please. He's quitting. Mr Rugelj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. I do not think there is much more to add to all Members of Parliament than they have said so far, but perhaps one conclusion could be drawn. When I listen to things like this, I get the feeling that if a person says a good day, it's not good if he doesn't say it, and it's not good again. When we were trying to expand something, you told us that we were increasing costs when we weren't spreading, why we weren't spreading some things. Here I am referring to this committee for petitions and the protection of human rights. I do not think it is necessary to extend this commission because I think there are still a lot of committees and commissions where more work is possible than on this committee. However, if you convince me that the quality of work or the quantity of work is at risk, then I will gladly agree to such things. I would therefore like to support the proposers and this decision. I think they've prepared it very well. I also support the fact that energy has finally returned to the economy, and I know that the economy is expected to be led by the United List, which is also possible, as is the case with this petition committee. I hope that the Joint List in these committees will be able to exercise its interests. That's all I want to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. First, we need to know that the story with the working bodies is probably not complete. Almost every term or virtually every term of office involved new working bodies. Gentlemen in position, I would like to remind you how you behaved when you were in the opposition; I think you were the one who was exerting the greatest pressure with initiatives to establish new working bodies. As regards the speed mentioned several times in the establishment of the National Assembly and also in the establishment of working bodies, I would say that speed is quite appropriate in this mandate. That the speed in previous mandates was many times lower, we came to this more slowly, but we also had some more difficult situations with the establishment of a coalition. At this rate, however, there is something that we need to know: that we are now obviously dealing with, I would say, two kinds of coalitions. One is a coalition that will be government-provisioned, apparently, after all recent events, and the other is a coalition that serves somehow to seize functions in the National Assembly. And this one's obviously a lot bigger. And since this coalition is relatively large and the agreement in it is relatively stable, everyone is satisfied, speed is also appropriate. And there are just as many working bodies as this coalition wants right now to meet all the needs of this coalition. It is clear that the coalition, as I said, is slightly wider for an agreement on the occupation of functions in the National Assembly than that which will be government or forecast to be government and that the main players are satisfied. This has already happened in the election of the leadership of the National Assembly, and this is now happening in the workplaces, commissions and committees. As far as the dilemma is concerned with the Special Commission on Human Rights is concerned, I would say that this Commission would constitute a new working body and that consideration is needed in terms of rationalisation. After all, we are always talking about rationalisation in the establishment of these working bodies, in order to eventually achieve more work bodies than we had. But I think it's important when the power changes, what message we're going to give. In the light of the fact that human rights are a jewel in all European democratic constitutions and legal arrangements, it would be good to show that this sanctuary of European legal regulations is also a world to you, and to eliminate some of the fears that are also emerging from the past. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr President, I would like you to calm down your client colleague, show some parliamentary hygiene, if not, but I will wait. I must say that I would also be more satisfied personally if the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as it is now called, appointed the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regionalism, because I think that this would make it more clear that we are going to reach regions or future regions. From this point of view, there is a fear that we will speak again and again about coherent regional development, but we will use the practices that have already been avoided that have not led to coherent regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we have this decree on the establishment and tasks of working bodies in the National Assembly, I think that it is quite a real picture of what we need in this National Assembly, and that it is also based on experience from the past calls of the National Assembly. We all know that, according to the experience of Members, some committees have been too extensive and that Members have literally avoided them. Now there are better opportunities for work, for quality committee work. Even in my personal opinion, there could be other improvements, but not in this short time. For example, personally, I would also like to include the public administration in the Committee on Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Public Administration. That would make more sense to me. But as my speaker has said, one mandate is a complete story and we may ever make any changes in this mandate again, but perhaps on the basis of the experience of this mandate, we will learn to move forward. With regard to these dilemmas and this pressure on the establishment of a new working body for human rights and equal opportunities, I would say that I agree that every committee must always, as mentioned earlier, consider human rights in all matters. For example, one such committee, which is very important, is the Intelligence Supervisory Commission, which I think will carry out this exercise further in this mandate. At the same time, with all these efforts of the LDS and the United List, I find it strange whether you were affected by collective amnesia. In the previous term, even the Committee on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, you have abolished it, and we have had to establish it on the basis of the pace of pressure and severe struggle and public support with delay. Then why did you terminate this committee? Last but not least, because some of you refer to some of the statements from the previous term of office, why you have not already set up special commissions in the middle of the previous term if you thought it was so bad. There, Mr Anderlič, in his previous term of office, would be able to put this into college by 34 votes. He didn't do it. And look, I am sure that human rights will have a little better time in this mandate also because we will have significantly more opposition press and opposition media in this mandate than we have in previous mandates. And this is always positive for the exercise and preservation and protection of human rights. This is always positive, as I am almost firmly convinced that there will be no government journalists in this mandate, as was the case in the previous term. As a result, human rights are now automatically better protected than they were in the previous mandate. And I really don't see where you're suddenly getting so worried that you didn't show it when you were in power! From where? I understand that the opposition must have new ideas, in fact, it must say that everything on the table is wrong, but you are heading right into the area where your shortcomings from the previous term are the worst. If we look transparently, you admit that in this area, before you had scissors and linen in your hands, you did not act well and did not act to protect human rights. I firmly believe that the position that will now be here, because of its bitter experience in the exercise of human rights in previous mandates, will now work significantly better and more in protecting all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u82	Of course, I am pleased that some of you have expressed your willingness to try to convince you of the appropriateness of having two separate committees. I think that, of course, if this is what you really want, then I suggest you read the amendment or the explanation of the amendment and not just read what has been proposed so that you do not repeat everything that has already been said today. Second. Today, of course, we will undoubtedly come to a decision, we will establish 22 working bodies, plus as soon as possible we will establish or fail to establish a constitutional commission and more. So we will have 23 working bodies, of course, as many as some others have much larger parliaments. We have already warned in one document that it would be good to consider whether it is really necessary to follow the government or to amend the government law in all the committees that are here, I would say, separated. I hope that you will also support at least one cultural amendment in this regard. However, I would like to touch at least two other committees, which, of course, we have not discussed today, because they are defined in the Rules of Procedure and, of course, one committee, which is in this decree, which is the Committee on Finance, Monetary Policy and the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. In particular, I would like to say that, and today, I have not heard much discussion about how individual committees operate, because of the content of the issue, to work constructively together, and that, of course, by setting up a system and then, of course, by implementing this system, which will or should be checked in the Commission for the Control of the Budget of Other Public Finances, there will be an even more transparent role to be played by the State Assembly in managing public finances. It is said that we will strengthen budgetary authority in this National Assembly. This I think will certainly be good for the country as a whole. And the last committee I would like to comment on in my brief and further debate, the Committee on Local Self-Government and regional development, as it is called, of course we have proposed original regionalism, because we believe that regionalism is a broader concept than regional development. Of course, the second logic of the college prevailed. I think that this important committee, that this committee will have to do relatively quickly, I say relatively quickly, because we know what will happen in 2006, the local elections will bring us to certain activities that will give us, in an important story related to structural and cohesion policy programmes in some way, an appropriate definition that Slovenia will be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the fact that we have entered the European Union without an agreement on the so-called second-level classification and that we will come to this classification, because, of course, it would be a great shame not to take advantage of this possibility so that, on the basis of the opportunity used, we would not come to such a landscape structure for drawing on structural and cohesion policies that would allow us to maximise the absorption of these funds. I must say that, of course, the work of the committees ahead of us, not only by what the committees will do in the coming days, weeks, regarding the appointment of a new government, will be important. Now there are not so many European themes, but those are the topics that are important for us to organise the work of the country fully also with amendments, new laws, changes to the organisation of the country so that we will be the most efficient society. This is what I would like to see in some way be the content of the works, and I expect that, above all, we will be able to hear from the heads of individual committees on this subject. Today there were not many discussions on the part of some, I don't know, I see under item 2, candidates. However, I think it will be very important, of course, how the committees will work. So we have, or we'll have 22, 23 committees, commissions. It will probably be necessary to think about how to organise the work, and I think that this space will be slowly related to everything around this Chamber, will be gradually or too small, and I think that some efforts will also have to be made in the National Assembly, particularly with the 2005 budget changes, to regulate the work of the National Assembly so that not only work will be provided for committee leaders, but also for professional co-workers, and that the National Assembly will be able to carry out the parliamentary function fully, as is the case with democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. The list of panellists to be discussed has been completed. This also concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decision and brings us to the debate on the amendments. You've received four amendments by the hand. The first two amendments, namely the United List of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, refer to the issue of the division of the commission for petitions and human rights and equal opportunities on two committees. I propose that we discuss both amendments together. If we vote and one amendment is voted, the other is irrelevant. We would then discuss and vote on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which places culture on another committee. We would then discuss and vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which amends or complements the text of point 17. I am opening the debate first on the first two amendments on the issue of the division of the committee or commission for petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group, I have already made an introductory statement, which is that when the national party's delegation's position is given, it is not against the amendment mentioned above, that we do not oppose the basic idea of dividing the Commission for Human Rights and, secondly, for petitions. In doing so, we express our fear and, on the other hand, the dilemma is that this national assembly will not find itself in the form of a law in the form of a law on which the labour body should deal with the content mentioned above. And secondly, it wouldn't needlessly cause complications. It should also be pointed out that, within the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we believe that, precisely through the elasticity of the Chairman-in-Office of individual working bodies, this material could be treated qualitatively enough as a preliminary material for consideration at the National Assembly. And thirdly, I should point out that in spite of the debate in the national party, the presentation of views by individual parliamentary groups did not get the argument that would deny the basic theory of the Slovenian National Party that it was not an important number of working bodies but, above all, that it was important which people in particular led these working bodies, how much discussions would be allowed in the framework of the working body and which material would be dealt with by this working body. Allow me, however, to touch the words of my colleague Anderlich in front of me related to this amendment, as the issues of the Liberal Democracy or himself, why should I approach this amendment. Firstly, it must be said that the function of the current Vice-President of the National Assembly is not incompatible with the function of a Member. If anyone thinks these two functions are incompatible and that the Member is no longer able to perform his functions because he is acting as Vice-President, he is wrong. I am sorry to have to teach this to my colleague Anderlich after his long years of parliamentary work. Secondly, it seems even sadder to me that someone's decision to vote in favour or against is conditioned by whether an individual Member is going to take a public office with whom to drink or not. Personally, I must say that I am very disappointed with the policy of Liberal Democracy, which builds its decisions on such trivial cases. Thirdly, I would very much like to make the following point, because I am sure that much is being said about this in the political media in particular. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allows what, which of the members of the national assembly of public function holders do in their free time. I believe that each of the Members has a right, and then I would really like to ask that we no longer talk about it, go for a drink with whoever he wants, and not be forced into it. Please, for understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Anderlich responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u86	Of course, Mr Pece has bogged down the matter in the way he thought he would be able to mitigate his statements as well as his actions. I don't care who he goes for a beer with, but if he says in the National Assembly that you're black and similar they don't deserve him to go for a beer with them, then of course that's another question. Who he's going with is really his problem. But this is about human rights, there's nothing here, whether we want to admit it or not. If this is a statement by someone who is a Member, then of course I have to ask myself what I am dealing with in this country and what standards will apply. And if they are now associated members of the coalition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Mr. Anderlich, this is not a replica. Explain if you have been misinterpreted and do not explain new things in a new way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Mr Pece mentioned me for the first time and misinterpreted my statement, and I have read it several times in the newspapers recently, from the magnetogram of this National Assembly, his statement, which has been published, you know it, and you, Mr President, have probably read it, so there is no dilemma here about what I'm talking about. It is not a dilemma for me to prevent anyone or not, but it is that I am asking and worried about these things, so it is only right that we discuss this and also set up such a working body. But the part where he was saying that I was saying that someone who was the vice-president was not an MP was, in fact, obviously a mistake on his part, whether he wasn't listening to me or I didn't understand what he was going to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Exceptionally, I'm allowing a replica of the replica. Please, we're not turning the old stuff around.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Thank you, for your word. I hate to use the word "lie." Mr. Anderlich, of course, in your performance you are "lying". First time. Nowhere, and then I would really ask that we stop doing this because the National Assembly is no place for someone to deserve my company or not. Mr. Anderlich, when you quote, quote correctly, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Don't lie. [[...]] Another time. Those words have never been uttered in the National Assembly. That's another one of your lies. Third time. These words, given that they were not even the same content as you now indicated, were given in the National Assembly, so there is no magnetic record. Mr Anderlich, I beg you, we are at the beginning of this term, try to avoid what you are exploiting, this is primitiveism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Pache. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your word. If the level of human rights in Slovenia depends on the working body and the establishment of the working body in the National Assembly, then it is sad. In the New Slovenia Group, we claim for ourselves that the way in which working bodies are distributed is primarily in the direction of ensuring the efficiency of work, this is an organisational principle, not a principle to which we will grant rights or not. I'm sorry that somehow the debate went this way. That's the principle of organization. Now some say that we have increased the number of working bodies, but at the same time, you say and oppose and criticize them, and on the other hand, we would vaccinate them. Yeah, you're inconsistent. However, we have said which working bodies have been overburdened in the past period, and we have followed these objectives. That's what we did. And another rule is that the division of committees, labour bodies dealing with legislative matter, should somehow comply with the distribution of government resources, so that there is no mixing of this. And that's what we've done. We've actually met these criteria. Of course, there may be exceptions. As was the case in the previous term, we have only found that we left an exception where there was no reason for the burden. That's how it is. With us infrastructure, there's always been a moaning that's too extensive. The committee for work, for health, for family, for disabled people, and I don't know what else, it's too extensive, so we put it in half. In view of these reasons, I believe that these amendments by the two groups of Members are unfounded. Of course you can defend them, but I will not support them myself, not because I would oppose human rights, but because it will not affect greater efficiency and organisation of work. About petitions. I was the head of the petition committee myself. I think the Commission has met about ten times a year for petitions. The amount of work you've been doing, you know about how it is, and you know about other committees. And when we heard when we had a meeting at European level, how the petition commissions work, we found that many of these commissions, the broader field of work, also in the direction, not just dealing with individual matters, but collectively and not only collectively, but also all that concerns. Collectively, where there are more than one signatory, but which also applies to the wider spectrum and from basic initiatives or collective rights can come to a conclusion, initiatives, proposals for laws that are being addressed in the framework of the National Assembly. We may have done this too little, perhaps even because of our lack of conduct. It is a pity that this seminar or this meeting was not held at the beginning of the term of office. To the petitioner, I would like to hand over this documentation relating to this meeting so that he can do more. However, we have succeeded in this last period with regard to the petitions committee, in asserting that it has achieved certain objectives to be seen in this company. But I will be happy if he reaches more, any, even from the opposition. Because that's our goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. These amendments are no longer submitted for discussion. That is why we are going to the vote. First of all, we will vote on an amendment that is far more distant, namely the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which you have before you, which shares and also distributes indents, as stated in the amendment. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment of the United List will be irrelevant. If this amendment of the Liberal Democracy is not adopted, we will vote on the amendment of the United List. Before we go to the vote, I ask if anyone wants to explain their vote. Mrs. Potter, then Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the amendment because I was already convinced that petitions and human rights and equal opportunities do not fall within the framework of one working body, simply because petitions deal with exceptional cases of human rights violations. The very interpretation that has now been heard that quality treatment of petitions can also be linked to initiatives for legal treatment confirms that both the working body and the independent working body for petitions have no special possibility of being a mother labour force for the treatment of legal initiatives. This is therefore an additional argument that the Commission on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities would be a stand-alone Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Battelli for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u96	I'll support the LDS amendment. If not for adoption, the amendment of the United List as well. This is simply because the validity of these amendments is simply extremely serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u98	I also support the establishment of this Commission for all the reasons mentioned, and also for reasons that the National Assembly must give itself a clear signal to discuss these matters and also to discuss statements that poison our environment. Statements about, say, lesbian women, about blacks, about Roma and so forth in Parliament require special types of treatment. Each violation always begins first by poisoning the public atmosphere. If this is happening in Parliament, if this is happening in the media where this is happening, if this is said by people who have a lot of power to influence the public, it is necessary for the Parliament to react and these things to be stopped until it makes sense to stop them. That is why, I will say, the vote on this is actually a vote on whether we want to stop this language of intolerance, whether it will continue to be a constitutional element of various policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Since there are no more speakers for explanations of vote, we are moving to a vote, I stress the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. [[85 present.]] The vote was 37 to 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mrs. Shirtz applied to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u100	It's an amendment that has a similar intent to the one that's been rejected at this point. It has not yet been said that the European Parliament has a commission, similar to or almost as we propose, for one more legitimate and more influential commission within its operations. Not just that. The European Treaty, the Constitutional Treaty, is defined on the status and attitude of human rights in a very responsible and competent manner. Much broader than we can see in any guide followed by the parties who are currently ruling parties who have expressed them in their values, as they will represent them in the future. As a result, we also feel it is necessary to insist on dividing these groups. And also in the context of what has been said today, that many statements and numerous opinions, which, as my predecessor said, poison the environment, are perceived as banal statements. Due to the banal statements, the Commission is re-elected in Europe today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. There's no more desire to explain the voice. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Please raise your hand in time next time I call for a raise. [[...]] Please show your interest to everyone who wants to speak. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u102	Of course, I will vote in favour of this amendment, just as I voted in favour of the previous amendment. Of course, that is what yesterday's hour and a half tells me about whether we respect some even in the rules of procedure. I think there's been a lot of discussion about this today, and I think it's possible to read in explanation why it's necessary. It is clear that the practice, or at least the beginning of some practice, which I hope will be interrupted at the next College of the President of the National Assembly in order to correct this story, the errors in the second paragraph of Article 34 and its interpretation, of course, that this practice is terminated. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of this amendment, as I am in favour of the previous amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u103	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 85 Members are present. 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which refers to points 15 and 16, with the area of culture transferred to the committee under number 16. I'm opening a debate. There are no registered candidates for the debate, so we are moving to a vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u104	President, thank you very much. The amendment complements the decree with quality and gives it some glimmers as regards culture, both in terms of rational division of work and appropriate burden. I think that, given the cultural and rational dimensions of the Members, this will be accepted. Of course, I will vote for him, and I hope that, because this also requires national interest and some cultural action from us, this committee will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak for myself. In agreement with my colleagues, I will support this amendment. I say this because I have worked for a long time on this committee, and once again I say that I have a vision of how this committee would be formed. I hope and wish that this amendment, if adopted, will contribute to the further development and work of the Committee dealing with culture, education, sport, science and technology development.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u108	I will support the amendment for the reasons stated. In fact, the very unfortunate division of the Ministry of Education, or the proposals for the division of the Ministry of Education, has also led to the unfortunate formation of two committees. With the proposed amendment, at least a little bit more substantively, we are fixing work between the Committee on Education and Sport, the Committee on Primary, Secondary and Higher Education and the Committee on Higher Education, Science, Technology Development and Culture. That's how I support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. And Mrs. Potter's explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u110	Thank you. I will support the amendment for some very specific reason. When setting up ministries and governments, I have pointed out that the division of education in two ministries, the exclusion of higher education and the placement in another sector, is an organisationally poor solution. When we talk about committees, we just confirm the correctness of this assumption, because it shows how embarrassed we are when we have to bind culture to one working body. And we are very unhappy when we decide where to put the culture. I take culture as the fundamental human right of everything between us, so I would not share whether culture belongs to kindergarten or only to higher education. And that's why the problem is where to put it now. At the same time, when we adopted the resolution on the national programme for culture, we placed language as our first priority. The language is a companion of man from beginning to end. Where are we gonna sort this out now? Sometimes I think it was the length of the name that ordered the division of the board. The previous Chairman of the Committee indicated how much work he had been working on and that this committee had been able to do everything in the previous composition. I see no reason for him to be so divided now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! If I could only endure the explanation of the amendment that my colleague, when introducing it, mentioned, might even support this amendment. And I also think that all the debaters you've discussed about this amendment are talking about culture. But if I'm looking at section two, we have an "media" line. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u113	Thank you. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. 82 Members attended, 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which, in the 17th paragraph, introduces the word "all EU enlargement issues". I'm opening a debate. Mr Barovic, the time of your parliamentary group is up. Perhaps you will be able to use that in your explanation of vote. Anyone else for a debate? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to the vote. But first, the explanation for the voice. Please everyone who wants to explain your voice to raise your hand. Only Mr. Barovich and Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u114	Thank you. It is clear that it is an explanation of the vote that I will be the amendment that I have tabled in good faith to complete or substantively complete the whole that we have been given in this decree, which we accept in order to support, while at the same time I would like to say that I only want a clear picture of this amendment. Those working in the EU need to know that the issue of EU enlargement is a very important concept. The Committee on Foreign Policy is dealing with enlargement, but it is looking through the second prism, as seen in the enlargement of the EU Committee. I would like to point out that the issue of Turkey is before us, the question of Bulgaria and Romania. These two issues can be viewed by two working bodies that decide to do so in very different ways. The explanation clearly states that no one would have said, by chance, after a decree of the law, yes, but the ruling of the European Affairs Committee does not say that it is a decision on enlargement. It does say that it decides on contracts, but deciding on contracts is not the same as deciding on enlargement. It is only a safeguard that it is known that this is a competent committee that will address all questions about enlargement, in particular that all those who will be candidates for enlargement and entry will meet all the conditions. This will be discussed in particular, I think, by the Committee on European Affairs and so much less by the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u116	I will support Mr Barovic's amendment. I think that Mr Barovic rightly pointed out with the amendment the matter that we tried yesterday to clearly define the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy in European matters, that it is solely responsible for the common foreign and security policy. I think it is right to add this paragraph, all of the enlargement issues of the European Union, because these issues are actually about the enlargement of the European Union for matters not only related to foreign policy but are related to a number of other issues addressed by this Committee in relation to the definition and definition of the work of the European Affairs Committee. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to support the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I also come from the fact that Mr Barovic, as a long-standing Vice-President, first of all the Commission and the Committee, has, in fact, rightly pointed out this in the past term, on the part of the Committee itself. We believe that the amendment, at least personally, considers the amendment to be a clearer definition of who will do these things so that there is no contradiction in the work of the national assembly. In particular, I believe that the discussion on the competence of both the home or both of the working bodies of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs will be a very serious topic. I hope that we will resolve this in agreement and not in opposition to the work of the two committees. Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u117	Thank you. The list of applicants for the replica has been completed. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. Mr Jerovšek, I have called on everyone to come forward earlier to explain their voices. And only Mr. Barovic and Mr. Squeakle applied. That's why we're voting. 82 Members present, 40 votes against 34. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was accepted. Procedurally, Mr. Skolch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u118	This opportunity you've given me to take advantage of just to ask you not to take on those powers you don't have. For reasons of vote, it has always been possible to apply by the time of the decision. And a lot of explanations about the voice of a colleague encourage a second explanation of vote. What it is, what can be done and what not to explain the voice is perfectly clear. However, it is certainly not possible for me to use the language of Mr Jerovška, which has been unjustifiably deprived this time, so it is certainly impossible to impose anything on anyone through the mouth when he wants to take advantage of the business option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u119	Good. Thank you, Mr. Skull. This was not, however, a procedural initiative and a question. I'm closing point one. We move to point 2 - Sorry - of the four amendments the last amendment was adopted. And now we are voting on the ruling as a whole. And again, I call upon all those who wish to explain your voice to raise your hand. Anyone else? Yes, Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u120	Thank you, President. Well, I won't object to the decision, although of course I'm not happy with it. The main talk was that unfortunately we failed to establish a special commission or a special working body for human rights and equal opportunities. Both amendments proposed were rejected. I still have a few observations on the other way of organizing the National Assembly, which there was not much talk about, but I felt that there was not enough attention, of course, to come forward. The point is that it pleases me that we have also divided traffic from environment and space. We are in the transport phase of placing transport infrastructure in the fifth and tenth European corridor itself and relating to the installation of this infrastructure, namely roads, is also a matter of environment and space, which is why such distribution is not the most appropriate; but of course the mood was that. We have too many working bodies, this does not satisfy me, we have introduced refugees and innovation into European practice, there is no proportion to the number of Members and Members, and not least, if we have decided to organise a different national assembly, we could also find attention for the Maritime Commission, given that we are and are declaring ourselves a maritime state. That's it. Nevertheless, I will not object to the ruling. I think it's right for us to start work and get organized as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u122	I will vote in favour, even though I regret that you did not accept an amendment, one or the other, which separated one of the committees. At the same time, I apologize to Mr. Pečet for misrepresenting where those words were spoken, for sayings in the Mars magazine, but they were made worse in this room. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u123	Mr. Anderlich, this is no longer an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u124	the context. [[...]] I will vote in favour, and I regret why with bitter taste. Because here in this hall, and this is in the magnetogram, something even more terrible has been said. For example, in each company there are scum, unfortunately, but in general all companies tend to reduce the quota for these. With this law, it is our assessment that you will increase this quota for these scum in the course of the debate on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u125	Mr. Anderlich, you're taking advantage of the fact that the appointee won't be able to answer because there's no replica to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u126	why I will vote in favour of the decree and why I am sorry that this decree is bad, but I will vote and precisely because I have the right to say what I think is bad and why I will support it. [[...]] However, I will support it because I believe it is necessary to set up a national assembly organisation, start with normal work, define tasks, of course we are here. And I think, no matter what it is right to say what anyone thinks about the decision, I will, of course, support it, but I regret that it is worse than it could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u127	Mr Pece, I'm afraid I can't give a replica, and that's probably what Mr Anderlich knew. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u128	I initially said that, on behalf of the LDS Club of Members, we cannot support a decree such as the one proposed. We regret that the amendments, although clearly justified, did not receive support. We have seen that, of course, one amendment has received support, and I think it is good that this is a good sign of seeking, of course, agreement between the so-called future opposition and the future coalition. It is, of course, the fact that, in accordance with the law, the National Assembly must, if I am not mistaken, form committees on 21 November, form working bodies. I hope that, of course, there will be an opportunity in this National Assembly to decide, first of all, at the College and then, of course, at the National Assembly, that there may be some error in the existing committees, and, above all, this story around the Joint Committee on Petitions and Human Rights, the same possibility that in the coming months, let us hope that we can split it up. The fact is that the decree is in force to be fully supported, because we need to be able to structure our working bodies. That is why I will fully support the ruling, despite the fact that I regret that you have not supported the amendments, but we have succeeded with at least one not so insignificant amendment, I hope to resolve in advance the differences that would arise between the two working bodies. Finally, all I would say is that now it would be good for the leadership of the National Assembly not only to provide guidance for the work of the committees in relation to the entire package of documents that is supposed to be waiting in the secretaries' offices, but also, of course, to negotiate in some way the content of the work, and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a comprehensive programme for the work of the committees in the future. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Mogue. Please, you have an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u130	Thank you. Of course, decrees like decrees can have good and bad sides. On the one hand, it allows the National Assembly to start working, and the position has sufficient votes to vote. However, I do not intend to support it myself, because I think that this decree has errors in terms of rational division of labour and undue burden on individual committees. It also seems to me that the political decision was to divide the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sports, which was one of the "de luxe" committees of the National Assembly, which was never overloaded, into such division as was achieved here, I am ashamed that we voted in favour of the amendment for culture. And I will also oppose this decision for that reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Pache, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u132	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a decree because we estimate that it is wise and necessary for the working bodies of the national assembly, where the committees and committees belong, to start working as soon as possible. I would also like to point out that, at least in the context of the National Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that in these elections, all political parties have achieved the same result as we have, with a view to adopting laws in this national assembly. And we all probably know that the parent working bodies, the commissions, the committees that are necessary for the consideration of laws and later for the adoption of laws are, at the very least, in the form proposed by the Government, or with the corrections it will later adopt and propose to the National Assembly. Allow me just a quick word. The difference is that when a person speaks, the words are spoken in the national assembly and are in the magnetogram. Another is when different words are found in different weekly newspapers. It is true, though, that the influence of the previous term of office in this national assembly was the same as that of the newspaper. And from this point of view, individuals, such as Anderlič, who had the main word in this national assembly, also had the main word in different weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u133	Mr. Peche!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u134	However, I would like to conclude by stressing only Mr Anderlich, I grant you the right to primitiveism, but you are taking advantage of this right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u135	Mr. Pache, this is not a replica, please. And Mr. Saiovic. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The decree is not ideal if we take into account all the amendments, it could be better, but I will open it, because I think it is time to stop dealing with ourselves and start solving in professional bodies the problems for which citizens and citizens have chosen us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr Battelli also raised his hand to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u138	Thank you, President. I am grateful to the predecessor because for exactly the same reasons I will support this decree, as I have already announced. However, I think it is important to stress how good it would be to have a working body that deals specifically with human rights and equal opportunities. Interestingly, the debate on this, in fact the debate of some, has shown how urgent it would be to have an exact working body. There's still time to fix this. It is not true that there is nothing wrong in the field of human rights in Slovenia. That's not true! Human rights violations happen, unfortunately, everywhere and everywhere. This is why organised civilised companies are equipped with institutional moments that identify such situations and resolve certain problems. Of course, everyone is responsible for the statements he makes. This isn't about censoring anyone. Everyone has full responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. And Mr. Gulic raised his hand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u140	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect! I will vote in favour of the ruling in full, although I think that we have left two important issues behind. It's that cultural thing. Culture is not only about creation, it is about what Slovenians are presenting ourselves to the whole world and to ourselves, and it is more about those common things than about education. But the other thing is, of course, human rights. Human rights aren't enough to have them. They must also be enjoyed and exploited. And I'm worried that at this time, there's not much chance of that happening. It is not now a new government, it is not a congregation like it is, but it is a civilisation that will make this impossible, even financially, materially and so on, and it is therefore necessary to take a closer look at these matters, and I think that if we called it today, this committee would have a lot of work to do. This way, of course, will be the work of all the other committees that will certainly face this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also support the decree myself, especially for state-favouring reasons, a little black with bitter taste, because our amendments have not been followed. One of the praiseworthy things is that the final traffic has its own portfolio or its own committee, previously under the auspices of infrastructure and the environment. I think that transport is so important to the economy that it deserves such a way of dealing with its working bodies as it now has, so that it is certainly commendable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Beast has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u144	Mr President, I myself will vote in favour of the decision, and I agree with those who believe that the issue of human rights and freedoms is adequately addressed in this structure as it is before us. It cannot be argued that the transaction will not violate human rights and freedoms. Nor is it possible to ensure that human rights and freedoms are not threatened as they have been so far. However, it can, or is, the responsibility of the new government to try to prevent human rights and freedoms from being systematically violated and threatened. This means that we will try at this time, in this mandate entrusted to us by the Slovenian electoral body, to raise the level of protection of human rights and freedoms as well as their feasibility. However, we cannot ensure, as some have said, that the transactions will not be breached or threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Beast. Can we get to the vote? We will vote on the ruling as a whole. [[Check the cards.]] We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 73 votes against one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENTS AND THE SUB-PresidentS OF THE WORKING BODIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft decision was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration. The Members' groups, however, announced the names of the presidents and vice-presidents for those posts on the committees allocated to the parliamentary groups by the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. Mr. Zammernik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is also a rather long and exhausting path behind us, which we have somehow successfully overcome. It is difficult to meet all the wishes and needs of MEPs and Members, first of all, of the sent groups that have been expressed, when divided into 22 working bodies. However, I think that what is ahead of us is the optimism that we have achieved after the difficult and I can say constructive negotiations and that, as has already been said, the majority, at least half - a little more - somewhere a little less - the desire is taken into account. Perhaps I was the most, I would say, having been criticized in my parliamentary group, because the calculation of the leading points, when we agreed to evaluate by number of points, shows that exactly the largest group in this area has the greatest handicap, because the average of the leading points on the Member is 1.66 and only the largest group of Members is quite significantly below this average. It is true that there is a second largest group on average for a hundred percent, but compared to the 2000-2004 mandate, there is a more accurate electoral outcome. The thoughts that have been expressed are likely to be expressed here. I say on behalf of the parliamentary group, as I have already said, that this is an optimal result, and also with my colleague Possončeva, when we somehow got it yesterday, we reached an agreement that we have upgraded today, and I am sure that Mrs Possončeva, and from this place I am saying this, will continue to do so. The thoughts that we will have, we may comment on later; but as I say, I think that I will optimize what is before us, and our group will support this motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Zampernik. Mr Squeakl has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u148	I do not mean to speak now because yesterday at the College of the President of the National Assembly, it was said that we should not talk about percentages and should not talk about what shares were and what the shares of the so-called Presidential and Vice-Presidential posts were, but because, of course, Mr President of the Group was talking about this and I will also talk about this. First of all, I must protest that there is an excuse here for this speaker's table, that, of course, something was agreed yesterday that was in conflict with the Rules of Procedure and I really suggest that we repeat the vote at yesterday's college on the so-called number of members of the working bodies belonging to the national communities. I said this at the outset at the previous point, and the President told me that I was going out of the agenda. Of course, we cannot accept any arrangements that take place outside the College of the President of the National Assembly, especially if there is a violation of Rule 34 or the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I really hope that at the public meeting of the College we will correct this, that the President of the National Assembly, as Mr SDS has now promised, will come up with a proposal and that we will allow the national communities to participate in those working bodies as they wish, which was and is protected by Article 34, paragraph 2. If I move forward, then we must find in this regard that the College's decision on this point and the College's decision on other points or other divisions of management functions simply does not follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It has already been said or written in documents which have been divided into colleges and which state the indications of the President of the National Assembly as well as of the groups of Members that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u149	Mr. Squeakle, do you know what the agenda is?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u150	Mr President, I am not the principles of discussion Yes, it is, the agenda item are appointments. [[...]] Mr Zamernik started with percentages and how many managerial functions he has. You didn't stop him, so let me talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u151	The point is - the names of leading functions by parliamentary groups and working bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u152	It holds, and it has a significant impact on the so-called percentage of which Mr. Zammernik spoke about, which you have allowed him to do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u153	If you have comments about a violation of the Rules of Procedure, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u154	No, I just want equal treatment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u155	then it is the second path known how to act in such a case. [[...]] But this is not the subject of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u156	Mr President, you let Mr Zammernik finish the discussion on the decision of the College, which is not the subject of item 2 of the agenda, but you yourself said that the subject was only an appointment; this was agreed yesterday. I said that I am starting a discussion on the fact that you allowed this to the leader of the SDS Group of Members. And let me also, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, present our position on this - because you have allowed this to the leader of the SDS Group of Members. I want equal treatment, despite a different agreement yesterday at the college, when you said you would not allow this discussion. You didn't interrupt it and, of course, you don't have the right to interrupt me if you let him discuss the percentage of management places, which is not subject to item 2 of the agenda - and I said so. Thank you very much. We believe that the decision is inconsistent with the rules of procedure, that it is not balanced and that it did not take into account the wishes of the groups. And we find this with a very simple relationship, and we don't even have to count percentages because for the two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and SLS, which have 16 members together, it is possible to manage as many as six working bodies. However, according to yesterday's decision, according to the President's proposal to be balanced, the proposed management of five working bodies, and those of the two working bodies established by the Rules of Procedure, belong to the opposition, to the LDS Club, which has 23 members, for seven more. I'm talking about the presidential seats. We can talk about the other cities if you'll let me. And in this context, of course, we made some proposals yesterday, we made a proposal that, given the importance of the work of individual committees, certain amendments - this has not been made - we also put forward a proposal that, of course, the commission for petitions and human rights should be allocated to two - this has not been voted on today, and that is why, of course, we simply note that the future coalition was given to the LDS House of Representatives what you intended. Now, of course, if we are already talking about percentage points, of course, I must point out that it is incorrect to compare the leading points to the MP's SDS Club with the LDS Club, because it is known that we have passed a law on Members in the past week, which will allow each Thursday the Prime Minister or the Government to call back fully up to 15 or if you want more Members This simple law allows, Mr Jerovšek, and however you laugh [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course, I don't believe it, don't doubt it. [[..]] We will see how many of you will be in this National Assembly by the end of your term. Therefore, it is, of course, incorrect to compare 1.36 with 1.65 points per Member, because it is simply a statistically completely different category of sent groups. The comparison is correct among the other parliamentary groups, here you will see that, of course, the LDS Group and the United List are the lowest and many more leading points are given to the New Slovenia Group and the SLS. Otherwise, it is difficult to explain why, as clearly stated, 9 Members of New Slovenia would lead as many as three committees, while of course 23 members of the LDS were also given the leadership of three committees. Of course, the LDS Club objected to such a decision by the College, the LDS Club felt that, if it had not been possible to take all the wishes correctly into account, there could have been a different way of taking into account, for example, the size of the groups of Members and then, of course, there would have been a so-called first and second choice, but you will all say, and then you would have reached this strange seating order in the National Assembly, so of course this was not expected to be adopted. In the LDS, we want to take responsibility for the work of the National Assembly by taking over the management of the labour force, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of the electoral result. Unfortunately, we can see that, after this proposal adopted at the college, under point 2 of today, this will not be the case. The LDS Club will not be able to assume full responsibility for the functioning of the National Assembly, because, depending on the election result, it has not been possible to take over the management of six working bodies, but we will not obstruct the work of the National Assembly, as the current or future ruling coalition has done in the previous term, but we will start working as soon as possible to make the promises made to voters and voters. That is why, of course, I propose that we try to end this discussion in some way, that we appoint these committee presidents, committee vice-presidents, and that, as we said in the previous paragraph, the committees begin to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Drobnič has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal set up by the College of the National Assembly with regard to the appointment of presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. This is the last part of the constitution of the National Assembly, in addition to the designation of membership in these committees, so that the National Assembly can begin its work. The proposal was drawn up by the parliamentary groups with regard to the appointment of these groups, according to the cut that has been established. It is likely that any parliamentary group or any Member is not satisfied with what could be achieved in order to be able to exercise his knowledge, his potential and what is actually his delight. However, in the 1990s, it is of course difficult to ensure that all the interests of Members are realized. Something has been mentioned at the College, how some parliamentary groups have been abandoned in terms of the allocation of leadership functions, which means leadership or sub-chairing. We have the rules of procedure adopted. Article 33 states: "The size of the parliamentary group and the distribution of other functions in the national assembly and the allocation of members to delegations in international parliamentary institutions and international organisations and bodies shall be taken into account in determining the leading functions in the working bodies." So, if we take all this into account, now my fellow Member, Mr. Swickl, has left the hall, so that he can't hear now - but you are behind, but look at this, and when you calculate the occupation of other functions, which is also called or elected in this national assembly, you will see that this relationship is very well established. Thus, there is no reason for any justification that these functions are not adequately distributed, of course, millimetre accuracy, and that we will never be able to satisfy hundreds of percentage points. The distribution, of course, also follows the objective of each Member participating in the three Committees, and this must be taken into account in order to distribute the work evenly. In short, the New Slovenia Group will support this proposal for appointment as presidents and vice-presidents of working bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Mr Presecnik has the floor on behalf of the SLS. He's quitting. Mr Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u160	Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will stick to the agreement reached yesterday at the College of the President of the National Assembly, and we will not talk about the proportional representation of individual parties in the governing positions of the national council's working bodies. In the Slovenian National Party, we see no reason why the proposed proposal would not be accepted, since the parties have proposed those people to leadership positions among their Members who are confident that they will be able to lead working bodies effectively and efficiently, so we will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mrs. Possonec has the floor. He's quitting. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first on the list of panellists is Mr Zammernik. He's quitting. Mr. Juban. He's not here. Mr. Sok, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. I have been following up on the course yesterday, and I think that the debate there was thorough and that what the College concluded yesterday is today in the form of a decision before us and I do not understand that the parliamentary groups again somehow, at least the Liberal Democracy, are opening the debate in the same way as it was led to college yesterday. If I look at the proposals for presidents and vice-presidents on these committees and the commissions, I can see that the Liberal Democracy has 13 seats out of 23 Members. I am just saying this because I see that this party is having problems with the number of seats that New Slovenia is supposed to occupy on committees and commissions. If I recall the previous mandate, it is said to be four years behind us, and I compare these 13 seats to 23 Members, as the LDS Club today considers to be, compared to what Nova Slovenija had, I can conclude that in this case this is a 1:2 ratio, but in the previous mandate of 9 Members, we had only three seats in the committee structure or commission in the National Assembly; it is said that this ratio was 1:3. At that time, of course, the largest party did not think that it would not have taken such a decision in the National Assembly, but today you are problematic to a colleague on behalf of the other party and you are somehow denying that New Slovenia and the People's Party, if I understand correctly, would have this relationship in the structure of the entire division of leadership and vice-presidential functions, as agreed at the College. I would also like to point out that in the past mandate, often when we differed in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you have sent a simple question to the Rules of Procedure Commission, led by a colleague from the United Kingdom, and that the Business Commission has also always, on the basis of the vote, adopted the position that the largest political party needed to regulate the situation in Parliament. I think we have a balanced proposal ahead of us. I understand that the accuracy of all wishes of the various parliamentary groups cannot be reconciled. For if the five groups are trying to run the same committee, it is clear that there is no way to harmonise this, that one group of Members is leading such a committee, and then the other four may consider that they have been deprived of something. Nor do I see any reason for a member of the national minorities to have much more seats on the committees of the National Assembly than the other Members have. I think that it is also somehow, regardless of what the Rules of Procedure say, etc., that it is impossible for organisational and technical reasons because they simply cannot work. And, of course, it is better to take seriously the work of those committees where they can, but not simply to be appointed to all committees, where perhaps from time to time a voice would be needed. This seems to me to be a completely unsettling approach on their part, because there is a lot of work on the committees, but we all know that there is not enough on the committee to go on board, and we also need to prepare ourselves for the committee's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Battelli has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Slavinec is next on the list. Mrs. Possonchev, you want a replica. Please, please, if you have been misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sok! We participated in various committees during the previous term. I hope you didn't have the feeling that I just took these committees out of my left hand - then why do you think I would now? And remember one thing, because it is that you have expressed your belief that it is a privilege for the Members of the Nationality. You cannot give so much to the Members of the Nationality that they are equal to you. And I don't know, for fourteen years we haven't had a problem, but yesterday we are the biggest spot here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Slavinec has the floor. You do not have a replica because you have not been specified [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u166	You mentioned the LDS representative, who was up there? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u167	Please, Mr. Squeakle, you don't have a word. Mr. Slavinac, please. He's quitting. Mrs. Uhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have adopted a decree on the establishment and tasks of working bodies in the National Assembly, which is also right, and there is no doubt that I would not yet vote for the proposed heads and vice-presidents of working bodies. The party that received a certain working body management suggested, in my view, an expert and organisationally capable Member. As a woman and a member of the committees, I hope that I will not be violated by human rights, even less of the rights that I would be deprived of because I am a woman. There were so many words about these today that we are at some kind of conference on women's rights. Above all, I hope that the rights of the voters, the citizens of Slovenia, which are why we are here will not be violated. More so that we have the same options. So I expect from all the chairmen that there will be equal opportunities on all committees and not just on the petition committee and on human rights and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. He's quitting. And Mr. Koren. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I think that all the parties to these governing functions of committees and commissions have proposed their best people, their best experts, and therefore I think that we can unanimously support all those proposed for leadership functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Koren. This concludes the general debate. Since there are no amendments, there is no debate on amendments either. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u172	Yes, allow me to explain my voice and, of course, to say that I will vote in favour of the decree. I will vote in favour of the decree for the same reasons as has been said before. That's because we need committees, because the committees need to start working. But I must express my regret - a gentleman who has not named me by name - that we hear here again after being told by a representative of the largest party of the coalition that you doubt [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u173	Mr. Squeakle, you're polarizing again because you know the address book won't be replicable.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u174	doubt the second paragraph of Article 34. [[...]] I will vote in favour of this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest we all do this and do what the rules of procedure say. We saw some breaches of the Rules of Procedure yesterday and today, so I will vote in favour, but I would also ask that you, of course, see why something is written in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u175	Anyone else - explanation for the voice? Nobody. We're moving to the vote. Check the cards. We decide on the decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, 70 votes in favour, none in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. Your Honor! I'm adjourning the meeting. The EU Affairs Committee will meet immediately in the big salon. The composition is as follows: Anton Kokalj, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Bogdan Barovic, Andrej Bručan, Robert Hrovat, Jožef Jerovšek, Rudolf Petan, Milenko Ziherl, Dr. Milan Zver, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Dr. Pavel Gantar, Majda Shirca, mag. Majda Potrat, Ferry Horvat, Marjetka Uhan, Jakob Presester, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We'll continue the session at 5:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u176	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE POSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE PREVENTION OF THE SLOVENIA OF EUROPE AND THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL. The material for this item was presented by the College of the President of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[You have received the material by reference]] . On behalf of the College of Presidents, allow me to provide an additional explanation of the College's position. Your Honor! On Wednesday, 10 November 2004, last week, following a meeting of the National Assembly, a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly addressed the material you have on the table. Given that it has been impossible to adopt a competent position, a position which would be entirely in accordance with our rules, both by law and by the rules of procedure, where it is required that the matter be decided by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union which we have not yet had, and even if the National Assembly should address this issue before the establishment of the Committee, a procedural question could arise as to how the State Assembly can decide on such important matters in a procedure which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, we have asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to put forward its position in Brussels the following day, i.e. on Thursday, to leave the door open or the possibility for the Presidency to be regulated as the European Union has provided an opportunity and to obtain a few days before the final decision at the meeting of the national assembly. Thus, we have gained this time, and now it is the final time for the message or for our decision today or tomorrow morning. Thus, today, when we set up committees, including the European Union Affairs Committee, we have made it possible to deal with this at a meeting of the National Assembly. So now you have the materials that are necessary for this, as well as the position of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thus, in accordance with Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure - as far as this Article is concerned - I underline paragraph 4 first - we will discuss and vote on the amendments, if any, and the proposals of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia as requested or decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Then we will discuss the proposals of the Republic of Slovenia's views on the EU issue, the proposals put forward by the government. If the proposal of the College of the President of the National Assembly is adopted, then further consideration and vote on the proposal for the positions of the Republic of Slovenia will be taken, that is to say the positions provided by the Government are irrelevant, although the two proposals are not in fact excluded in the substantive sense. So much for the explanation of the debate and the position forwarded by the College of the President of the National Assembly at the meeting. I give my word to the Prime Minister for an additional - or allow the text to be given to representatives of the government for further explanation of the government's position. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u177	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me, on behalf of the Government, to speak a few words concerning today's important decision. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that the process of entry and entry into the European Union has undoubtedly brought a number of changes to Slovenian institutions and policies in general and will be even more so in the future. Today, six months and a few days after joining the European Union, we can say that Slovenia has successfully endured the first steps as a member of the European Union. We have established a European Union border at our southern border with the Republic of Croatia, entered the exchange rate system, started negotiations on the next financial perspective. Good, this is also evident from today’s documents, cooperation between the National Assembly and the government. Of course, in these days, a few weeks after the elections and the transformation of the new government, we face new challenges. We believe that they should not be intimidated, but should be carefully analysed and then made as informed a decision as possible. And one of the biggest challenges for Slovenia as a member of the European Union so far is certainly the proposal by the Dutch Presidency to take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first group of countries from 1 January 2007 to 30 June 2008 or the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Council in the first half of 2008 in the event that the Treaty of Accession for Europe does not enter into force until then. The proposal itself states that the order of the presidency after enlargement with ten new members will depend on the fact that the Constitutional Treaty with Europe will enter into force before the end of 2006, or also on the negotiations under way - and today's discussion is also an integral part of the negotiations - within the framework of the Council of the European Union on the order of the Presidency. If, by the end of 2006, 25 Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe will enter into force on the basis of ratification in all European Union Parliaments, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, except in the case of the Foreign Affairs Council, which, of course, will be chaired and chaired by the new Foreign Minister of the European Union, as provided for in the Constitution, will be abolished, the Presidency of the Member States, the Presidency of the European Council by the Presidents or the President of the Presidency of the Presidency of the European Union will be abolished. If, in the process of ratification, the referendums, all that will happen in the 25 countries of the European Union by the end of 2006, it is possible that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe will not enter into force, the Presidency will be fully and independently, as envisaged by the current system for both the Council of the European Union and the European Council in accordance with the order set out by the Council of the European Union. Today we are discussing the order of the Presidency and in this regard the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union has been preparing possible versions of the order of rotation with a new number of members during the accession process. Furthermore, during the Danish Presidency in Brussels in October 2002, the European Council confirmed that the current order would continue until the end of 2006 and that the Council would take a decision on the order of the Presidency after 2007 not later than one year after the entry of the first new country. As you know, we entered on 1 May together with nine other countries and, of course, we are in this first year or year after the entry of the first new country. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is of the opinion that the decision on the presidency falls within the competence of the executive branch of the Authority, given that it carries out ongoing business, the RS Government seems appropriate to decide on such an important issue by the national assembly as a whole and this will be the position of the Republic of Slovenia. This decision will not last, as I will say later, have a major impact on the other priorities of the new government, if not otherwise, certainly because of the financial burden that the Presidency will present. We also believe that such important things must in any case be created as broad a political consensus as possible, recall the experience of the accession period. In Slovenia, the accession project, the European Union's accession project, has already gained all national dimension, has not remained only in the domain of the ruling political parties: we have all been involved in the creation of the European story. Slovenia was the only one of the 10 candidates who confirmed its negotiating points also in the competent parliamentary body, making government positions our common position, the position of the Republic of Slovenia. They can and have been identified by the then political opposition, who actively participated in creating a favourable climate for overcoming problems, and I have no doubt that this will not be the case in the future. This practice is to be continued, not because of the form in which we could boast before Europe, but because of the creation of the widest possible political legitimacy that is necessary in the event of a decision to take the Presidency. The proposal from the Netherlands can be seen as a great obligation to make the best of our trust. That this is a very important role for the Presidency, which a country accepts, shows the pressure of some other countries to take over the city of Slovenia in the first group, although Slovenia has maintained strong support for the other two countries in the troika - as is known, these are Germany and Portugal. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we estimate that the involvement of the national administration in European affairs during the six-month Presidency would certainly have a very positive impact on the awareness of the functioning of the European Union, including an increase in awareness in our public and, for example, will undoubtedly affect participation in the next European parliamentary elections. We further believe that successful Presidency can contribute to Slovenia's international reputation and improve our visibility abroad. More importantly, in cooperation with the other countries in the troika, it is important that they can develop their priorities and have a greater impact on the agenda and content of the issues being addressed at European Union level. In this regard, allow me to remind you of the experience of some other countries which have already or will continue to preside over the coming period, both Ireland and its priority in the first half of this year highlighted the issue of the adoption of the Constitution, the achievement or establishment of candidate status for the Republic of Croatia and the election of the new President of the European Commission. The Netherlands, which holds the presidency of the second half of this year, has set the task of negotiating as successfully as possible on the next financial perspective, appointing a new European Commission and transferring its positive experience in reducing administrative burdens to the European Union in the full context of the first analysis of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The Netherlands has also successfully co-chaired the meeting of the ASEM 5-39 countries of Asia and the European Union in Hanoi in October this year, in accordance with the obligations of the European Union on the international stage. Luxembourg, which will preside over the first half of the next year, wants to successfully resume negotiations and conclude negotiations on the next financial perspective, pay more attention to the Stability and Growth Pact, in particular the adaptation of this and the implementation of discussions in the EU's world on the revision of the Lisbon Strategy. It is important to ask what priorities Slovenia can set itself. Is this in 2008 the entry of some candidates for membership in the European Union or the provision, for example, that all the countries of South-Eastern Europe will by then become candidates for accession negotiations to the European Union? Is this a revision of the Lisbon Strategy in 2008 as one of the possible challenges? We certainly believe in the outgoing government that these issues will have to be dealt with by the new government as soon as possible. The outgoing government estimates that the Presidency for Slovenia is undoubtedly a challenging challenge, but it also represents a great opportunity. We estimate that if the new government makes the presidency one of the key priorities of the mandate and gives it full political support and adequate financial and human resources, Slovenia can carry out the Presidency successfully. The Presidency will be extremely difficult, in all respects, for a new and relatively small Member State such as Slovenia, due to organisational, human resources and financial aspects. Allow me to point only some out because of the informed decision. The experience of the other members requires at least two years of thorough preparation for the successful implementation of the Presidency. We will therefore have to, starting in 2005, train a sufficient number of officials - we estimate at least 40 in 2005 at the time of the presidency, some 100, 100 and 200 officials - who would be able to negotiate within the EU Council, which has over 4,000 sessions a year or 2,000 sessions a year in various forms during the six-year presidency. On the one hand, meetings at expert level or working group meetings, as well as meetings of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, so-called Coreper 1 and 2 and meetings at the highest ministerial level, shall be held. The organisation and management of informal ministerial meetings, which will take place in Slovenia in accordance with practice and agreement in the first half of 2008, will be particularly difficult. Staff reinforcements of the Permanent Representation in Brussels will be needed as the Presidency, based on the experience of other countries, requires at least 120 experts and additional logistic support staff. There is no doubt that it will be necessary to strengthen the European departments of the sectoral ministries. In 2005, it will therefore be necessary to adopt a training plan for all the personnel mentioned above and identify officials working on the project in the coming years. Together with the other countries in the group, it will be necessary to undertake and agree on both substantive and organisational planning for the Presidency as soon as possible, to prepare the necessary programme and, on the basis of the above-mentioned possible priorities, to define clear Presidency priorities and the programme of accompanying cultural and other events. For example, the Dutch Presidency through the Dutch Embassy in Slovenia in the second half of this year is carrying out many activities, which are, of course, these other cultural and other events. The country's protocol capacity should also be strengthened as many informal ministerial meetings are also taking place in the Presidency. Taking into account the facts, particularly those related to security issues, of course, much attention will have to be paid to this. We had an informal ministerial meeting of Ministers for European Affairs in Amsterdam on 5 October, half of Amsterdam was closed. According to the first estimates of the previous chairmanships of other Member States, it would be necessary to provide between 14 billion and 24 billion tolls from the State budget for the purpose of the Presidency. This amount is relatively high for Slovenia and should also be kept in front of the eyes in relation to the 2007 euro takeover plans. The new government will certainly have to pursue a very restrictive fiscal policy and maintain price stability. This is especially because 2007 will be the first year of the next financial perspective, when Slovenia will no longer receive lump sums, but only in terms of taking on commitments to implement cohesion and common agricultural policy. This means, in itself, the need for a substantial restructuring of budgetary expenditure and, at the same time, the provision of additional resources for co-financing projects for the implementation of important policies. The Ministry of Finance, the relevant sectors assessed in yesterday's discussion or opinion at the government's correspondence session that they did not see any additional possibility of providing the necessary funds for the implementation of the Presidency with the restructuring of budgetary expenditure, but only by increasing the overall level of expenditure, which would immediately increase the budgetary and public financial deficit. It was therefore estimated that the budgetary commitment would be easier to implement in the years when it was planned to achieve this after 2007 and 2008 under 1% of gross domestic product. If I do. There is no doubt that the possible taking of the Presidency in view of today's decision will also have an impact on other internal political priorities of the government, as an undisputedly large part of the country's energy will have to spend on this project. We believe that the Dutch Presidency, when drafting the proposal, considered that Slovenia was capable of all of the above. Finally, according to them, it has also been guided by experience with Slovenia's current functioning within the EU. The President of the Netherlands believes that in the case of Slovenia, it is the best-prepared new Member State to assume such challenging tasks. Such an attitude truly represents a great recognition for us. Slovenia has clearly proved itself to be one who is actively looking for answers to key questions when it comes to working within the EU. As a country that can, where necessary, step away from narrow national frameworks and find a compromise while at the same time being able to draw very clear views. Allow me at the end of this, because I think it would be best for me, in the context of the debate on the takeover of the Presidency, to lay out another aspect which, in my firm belief as Minister or outgoing Minister for European Affairs, is crucial for the whole project. I believe that it is necessary and essential to have an effective system of internal organisation and coordination of planned activities for successful planning and later implementation of the Presidency. I believe this because Slovenia has become one of the most successful or most successful countries of last enlargement precisely because it has already established an appropriate system for coordinating European affairs with the role of the European Minister in 1998. I must say that this is the case with all the Member States that have led or chaired the EU in recent years. Let it be Italy in the second half of last year, Ireland in the first half of this year and the Netherlands, which, of course, establish a very strong coordination with the relevant political function. Your Honor! Membership in the European Union brings us new opportunities. If we turn them into advantages, it will depend largely on ourselves, primarily on the new government and on all of us who will do so and who decide on it, you will decide in the National Assembly. I think we have enough knowledge and ability to succeed and that Slovenia will be known in the European Union as one of the most successful and credible countries. However, the new internal maturity test may already be the takeover of the presidency in the period 2007, 2008, so on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose that you support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u178	Thank God, Mag. Milanu Cwickle, representative of the government. The material was also treated by the European Union Affairs Committee as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u179	Your Honor! On the basis of the third paragraph of paragraph 154 and Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following report shall be submitted by the Committee for the Affairs of the European Union, as the committee responsible. On the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union and the European Council. At its 1st urgent meeting on 17.11.2004, on the basis of paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee of the European Union considered as a competent working body the title proposal for a position on the basis of the contributions submitted by the College of the President of the National Assembly and the Government. The meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee was chaired by President Anton Kokalj. Following an initial presentation of the draft position of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the College of the President of the National Assembly and the position proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee, after a discussion where the difficulty of the exercise of the Presidency in terms of additional burdens on the state administration and the major implications for the state budget on the one hand and the great opportunities for Slovenia, as a new Member, in terms of visibility and greater international reputation and thus indirect impact on the economy on the other hand, unanimously adopted the following decision: The Committee for the Affairs of the European Union supports the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Council, as adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee on European Union Affairs therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt at its meeting the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union and the European Council, which reads as follows: In the event that the Treaty of Accession with Europe enters into force by the end of 2006, the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first group of countries from 1.1.2007 to 30.6.2008 and in the event that the Presidency is not implemented jointly, in the first half of 2008. In the event that the Constitutional Treaty with Europe does not enter into force by the end of 2006, the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the Presidency of the European Council and the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union also took note of the opinion of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union and to the European Council and found that the opinion of the Council of State was identical to the opinion of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the College of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u180	Thank you to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Kokal, for the report. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the representatives of the Group. Mr Zammernik has the floor, on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The decision that is before this high assembly today can only be seemingly difficult. However, in our Group of Members, we believe that the arguments in favour of making a positive decision are that we support our country's leadership for the European Union in 2007, and we must decide on such a decision, despite some possible justified or even slightly less justified concerns. In the arguments for virtually all of us are unanimous, the entire national assembly. However, the arguments against this decision state some figures which suggest that there may be concerns about this. However, according to some estimates, which we also receive from government services, the figures listed here are quite exaggerated. That Luxembourg and Belgium, for example, did not have nearly such a high cost; that the assessment of the human resources solutions needed to manage it was also substantially overestimated. As I said, because on the side of the arguments for these very strong, the arguments against them do not fully hold, but even if, it would suggest that this decision be supported. Therefore, our Group will support the proposal that Slovenia take advantage of the opportunity to lead the European Union in such a high society in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. I give the floor to Mrs Lovtišar Bebler, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Club has taken the view that in the current situation, when a new government has not yet been established after the elections, the government can only carry out ongoing business, and it is for the National Assembly to take a competent position that Slovenia adopts a proposal from the Dutch Presidency that our country, together with Portugal and Germany, will preside over the Council of the European Union and possibly the European Council from 1 January 2007 to 30 June 2008. In this situation, the National Assembly is the only one who can commit himself to taking on this responsibility, which, as a result, will require extremely large financial resources from our country. However, this financial burden must now or as soon as possible be planned in all future budgets, as it should also be initiated without delay with preparatory actions and activities to ensure the appropriate infrastructure necessary to carry out such a demanding project as the Presidency of the European Union. Some indicative estimates say that this project is supposed to cost us about 0.4% of the domestic gross product, with some of these funds starting to be pumped before the presidency. Will all of this affect the redesignation of our other development priorities? Definitely. In order to have a better idea, I should mention that about 30 billion Slovenian tolars cost the construction of a new national and university library. We could build at least two pediatric clinics for this kind of money. Let us not forget that in 2007 we will enter the euro area, we will take over the euro. Even in order to achieve this goal, by then we will have to meet a number of other requirements of monetary financial nature, which only further complicates the tasks ahead. It is undeniable that it is an invitation, or proposal, that Slovenia is the first President of a number of new members of the European Union, a great recognition to our country, which has, in fact, always been judged best prepared for membership in the European Union. In fact, it is a matter of recognizing to our governments so far whose fundamental priority has always been the undisputed inclusion in Euro-Atlantic links, particularly in the European Union. But it is also a unique opportunity that we should be able to make good use of, not to waste, for we were not prepared for it so early. Do we have in Slovenia a sufficient staff base, a sufficient number of highly qualified officials and other experts to carry out this project of Presidency of the European Union? To this end, we will need some 100 highly qualified people according to the material sent to the National Assembly. Are we aware of all the tasks to be accomplished? Negotiations should be conducted within the framework of the European Union Council working groups with more than 2,000 meetings over a period of six months. It is the management of meetings at expert level or working group meetings, meetings of the Committee of Permanent Representatives and meetings at the highest ministerial level. In addition, informal ministerial meetings will have to be organised and conducted at home in Slovenia. It is understandable that there will be a need for substantial human resources to strengthen our representation with the European Union, while it should be stressed that human resources for the presidency will need to be strengthened, and before that, all our representations with international organisations such as the UN in New York and the UN headquarters in Geneva, Vienna, the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, the OSCE in Vienna and so on. Human resources will also need to be strengthened by our embassies in the Member States of the European Union and in those countries where we are particularly interested in establishing specific or additional contacts, consultations and information on their views during our Presidency. These are certainly the United States of America, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Turkey and some others. However, appropriate logistical support must also be provided in advance at all these locations. In addition, we will be chairing the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe next year, and we will also chair the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in 2008. This is where the Presidency is determined by alphabetical order and Slovenia is thus scheduled in 2008. This only reinforces our warning that this Presidency will be extremely demanding. We've got three options ahead of us. The most challenging situation would be for Slovenia to take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union under the current system, so if the Constitutional Treaty had not yet entered into force. In this case, Slovenia will have to preside in all formats of the Council of the European Union and chair the European Council in its six-month term of office. The only relief in this option would be that Slovenia could request either Portugal or France to assume some of the responsibilities of chairing one of the committees or commissions for which Slovenia does not have, either a special interest or an appropriate staff. All formats of all bodies to be taken care of by the chairman are around 200. Second, slightly easier, the option would be for Slovenia to preside over the Council of the European Union in troika with Germany and Portugal, provided that the Constitutional Treaty has already entered into force. In this case, she would take over the presidency in the first half of 2008 and the troika would take place on 1 January 2007. In this case, Slovenia would not preside over the European Council or the Council of the European Union in the formation of foreign ministers. The remaining part of the burden in the first half of 2008 could be shared by Slovenia under agreement with Germany and Portugal. And third option, Slovenia postpones its presidency in one or the other variants for the period between 2009/2020. The Dutch Presidency, however, wants the order of the Presidents to be established by now. Therefore, we must now decide whether to postpone or not. If we do not decide to postpone, which shows that we will not, we must also count on the most difficult option. Are we up to it? We are, but under the condition that we immediately undertake substantive and technical preparations. It would not be worth learning about the experience of Luxembourg, which is a small country, but has so far chaired the European Union several times. You could, in particular, advise us on how to reduce material costs. Let me get this. We are aware that this is an extremely demanding project for our country. Our country can stand up to 100 million euros, and we do not have a concrete review of human resource constraints. However, the proposal of the Dutch Presidency is seen as a great recognition to our country, both to our previous governments and to this Parliament and to all other factors that have contributed to the reputation of our country in the eyes of the European Union countries and beyond. That is why we have a positive position in the LDS House of Members, with some warnings in principle, on the proposal to take over the Presidency of the European Union. Even now, we need to think about the priorities of our Presidency and also to try to overcome this Presidency as best as possible, conditionally speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, as a new equal member of the European Union, seeks to identify and enforce within the Union and in the wider international community, for political, economic, cultural, sports and any other application. Political enforcement in the EU institutions can undoubtedly contribute greatly to this. Each Member State must lead the European Union in the next period. Under the new Constitutional Treaty, each country in the team presidency shall lead all the Council’s compositions, with the exception of the Foreign Affairs Council, while the other two shall assist it on the basis of a joint programme. The proposal for rotation within each threesome takes account of the diversity of countries and the geographical balance in the European Union. Slovenia is offered to take over the Presidency of the EU Council as the last of the first three, with Germany and Portugal, which is the first six months of 2008. Thus, Slovenia is the first among the new EU members to be offered a presidency, which is certainly a great recognition. This means that Slovenia is seen in the European Union as the best-trained new Member who would be able to accept the Presidency challenge first. This is a recognition of Slovenia as a country, and this is also a recognition of the work of the National Assembly, governments and other institutions in Slovenia, which have ensured such a reputation for Slovenia in the European Union. The leadership of the Council of the European Union will give Slovenia the opportunity to put on the EU's agenda the most important topics for us in those areas that are closer to us and in our interest. We can certainly develop initiatives to resolve conflicts in the Balkans, and we also contribute to addressing issues that are particularly interesting and important for us in relation to further enlargements of the European Union. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that we must take advantage of the opportunity offered as soon as possible and today accept the proposal offered. We are aware of the large financial contribution that Slovenia will have to make, but this is a long-term investment that can benefit the reputation and prestige of countries today. Nothing can take away this opportunity for our international recognition. Given that by then we will have some international organisations running ourselves, such as the OSCE and the current Presidency of the Central European Initiative, we cannot say that we would not be able to gain sufficient experience for the successful Presidency of the European Union. However, it is necessary to prepare for the presidency from now on, not only financially, but also organisationally, personnelally and politically. This is and must be a national project and not just a government project or just an external ministry. Of course, the government will be personally and directly responsible for this project, as many activities will be in its hands, which will depend on the success of the project. At the College of the National Assembly in preparation for this meeting, we have already found that the new Prime Minister, Janez Janša, in his next speech, has positively defined this proposal and the consensus and responsibility of the new government is also a condition for the success of this project. In order for the state to play its first major role on the international stage in a qualitative way, it is important that the newly formed government immediately adopts a comprehensive programme of action and is likely to obtain or inform the National Assembly. However, I would like to point out that it is at the same time important that political unity is also achieved in order to fulfil this role, and that there are as few current issues as possible in the country to separate political parties. The implementation of the joint project therefore requires the readiness and responsibility of both the government and the opposition. The United List of Social Democrats is ready for it, so we also support the proposal that Slovenia adopt the proposed Presidency already in the first group of countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Bajuk has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable, colleagues and colleagues. Slovenia's entry into the European Union was a long-standing project that wanted political consensus between parliamentary parties throughout the period, and this project was therefore the basis and pillar of Slovenia's foreign policy and, of course, also to a large extent internal policy in Slovenia. Finally, this decision also seeks the support of citizens and citizens at the 2003 referendum. The result of this is the entry of Slovenia into the European Union on 1 May 2004. The Presidency of the highest bodies of the European Union is the competence of full membership, is the right of full membership and in particular the responsibility of the Member States. In view of the support that our membership has expressed not only in the political space, but also among citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we cannot interpret it differently than that they have accepted the responsibility associated with it. So the question is not whether the Presidency does or does not, but how Slovenia should respond to this option, the current Presidency of the European Union, is that Slovenia should be included in the first group if the new constitution is adopted and the actual Presidency takes place under the Troika system, not as it has been since one country was six months old. We are well aware of the challenges and also of the possibilities that this represents for Slovenia. We estimate that certain warnings by the government and our opposition colleagues are well-intentioned and also in place. The fact is that this is a very demanding project that needs to be done requires all of us, as has already been mentioned, to start preparations immediately in all areas, both at home and abroad in our representations, and in particular that we are already working on a political project, what this will actually mean for Slovenia. We're sure we can do this. If we were not convinced that the Slovenians could do so, then we should not accept membership, full membership in the European Union. Surely this will be difficult and will require just as much support as this project has had until May 1st, which we have carried out. There was never a lack of support from the opposition to this project. We are confident today that we have listened to the words of our colleagues and colleagues from the opposition that this project will also wish the support of the opposition species, because this is in particular the Slovenian project we need to carry out. We're sure we can do this together. But I don't want you to hide the facts of how difficult this is going to be. Bo, it will be difficult, of course it will be difficult from a financial point of view, it will be very difficult from a human resources perspective, but I am sure that the Slovenians are mature for it, and if we do so as we have done the membership project ourselves, we will also succeed. New Slovenia will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bayuk. Mr Preseknik has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian People's Party has already stated in its knowledge and European policy programme that it is committed to Slovenia acting as an active member of the European Union and of the international community, thus contributing to the creation of common European views on global political issues. Our initiatives and positions in EU structures will focus on the realization of those interests that concern the country's widest population. Slovenia will be a successful member of the link if membership contributes to improving the situation of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and Europe. In European dialogue and with appropriate measures of national policy, we will promote the Slovenian national culture, which we consider to be an integral part of European culture, and strengthen Slovenian national identity in Europe and beyond. Due to all the above programme positions in the SLS, we support the Presidency of Slovenia in the EU Council from 1.1.2007 to 30.6.2008 or the Presidency in the first half of 2008, in the event that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe does not enter into force by the end of 2006. The active role of Slovenia during the Presidency of the EU Council will enable the entire EU organisation and its institutions to approach Slovenian citizens and citizens in Slovenia. In a year and a half or in a second case, the six-month exposure to the entire European and, consequently, to the global public, Slovenia will also be able to promote itself to the best extent. Of course, there will be a huge human and financial burden and a huge organisational supply. The benefits that will or will not be fully measurable will certainly be great in all areas. The Republic of Slovenia will chair the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe in the following year, which is in 2005. Preparations for the presidency are already under way. The knowledge, opportunities and experience that the OSCE Presidency will bring us can also be of great help in the Presidency that we are deciding today. The SLS Group will support the proposed conclusions as they are a logical consequence of Slovenia's entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barovic has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This time, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. To be clear, it is the government that has or should have exclusively the right to decide what content we are talking about. It is just that this decision is absolutely necessary yet, I think, in the next few days, where Slovenia, the President, must say clearly "yes" or "no". These are the facts. This is because we must all be aware together of the great responsibility we bear with this decision, and we must say it clearly and loudly to all the Slovenes and Slovenes who have voted in favour of being Members of the National Assembly. Secondly, we must all know clearly that, by the decision of the Slovenians and Slovenians to enter the EU, the behaviour on what lies ahead has been clearly given. Every country, every person who enters a club, must respect its rules, everyone gets rights and obligations. And this obligation was clear and inevitable. In doing so, it is more necessary to ask what is what lies ahead. We would be waiting for us if we decided, for example, in 2012, because it doesn't matter, it's waiting for us. First of all, it is an essential question, which is important in this decision, whether or not the Constitutional Treaty will be adopted or not adopted by the time Slovenia takes the lead. We all know that Britain, France, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Poland, and perhaps another country are waiting for the outcome of the referendums it will have. At the referendums, people will decide on the Constitutional Treaty. We must assume that this can happen, as is the case with Europe and the European Parliament, that the referendum in Britain will fall. Almost certainly. This means that Slovenia is awaiting the leadership of the European Union under the current system of troikas with all obligations to the Council of Europe, to the European Council and to all network planning and work. Even if the Constitutional Treaty is adopted, it is true that the European Council will be given a President for a two-and-a-half-year term, it is true that Slovenia is not supposed to preside over the Council of Europe at least in the field of general and foreign policy. However, it is still unclear whether the so-called troika, namely the state, will work together earlier and later in 18 months, so that each country will cover different areas, or whether this trinity will work as well as it does now, so that six months is fully chaired by one, six months the second and six months the third country. Advantages and weaknesses. It's good to put it on a scale and figure it out. For the Slovenian National Party, the decision of Slovenk and Slovenes, despite our warnings, is clear, despite our Euro realistic position, that we must respect the will of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. On one side of the scale, positive things, we have put first not everything we have heard, recognition of Slovenia, honour and so on, but, above all, proof that Slovenia is and will have to lead an active European policy. Another positive advantage is that Slovenia, with honest work as we know it, will have a much greater international reputation than it already has. The third priority is the possibility of designing or at least influencing those priorities, one or more of which Slovenia will of course take the most. The fourth advantage I see is learning about the functioning of public administration in the European Union, which will certainly be very useful for the country of the Republic of Slovenia. The next advantage is that, finally, in 25 countries in Europe, they will say that Slovenia is somewhere, and they will hang our flag, not the Slovak flag. A very important advantage is that we Slovenians will get to know the good and bad aspects of a large common country called the European Union. Above all, it will also be a great advantage if we know how to take advantage of this advantage in the economic field. If we put on the scale what we would call "minus." The identification and training of a large number of officials will be required. And here is the advantage, for the human resources deficit is not as great as we think. We all know that there are a lot of young educated people. That's a lot of projected costs. Yes, but these were clear at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The question of what will happen after 2006, which we have repeatedly pointed out in the Slovenian National Party to what extent Slovenia will still be, if it is, a net recipient of funds. Finally, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, in all the countries that chaired, you have seen that there have been major or minor problems in the area of order and security. We must be aware that the number of Eurosceptics across Europe is increasing. These are the facts that we must consider. We must be aware that the number of anti-globalists is increasing and that they do not really care where and how they protest. And we must be aware that we will also need a large, large number of security authorities. In addition, Slovenia can be further expanded during this period. If this were to take place during the presidency of Slovenia, i.e. in the first half of 2008, there will be a great and responsible task ahead of us, great pressure from the side - at least that is how I count and estimate that this will not happen sooner - Turkey, by Bulgaria, by Romania. Who knows how they'll progress in fulfilling the tasks our neighbours have. These are all tasks. Not to mention that before we enter the ERM, and that the euro will be taken over as much as possible. Only that the state budget will have to be slightly changed during this period. At the same time, the National Assembly will have quite a bit of work, especially in the area of the so-called COSAC, the parliamentary working body or the working bodies for European affairs and meetings of other working bodies. There will be huge travels, two thousand meetings, at least in Brussels, probably in Strasbourg and huge in Slovenia. I am sure that the Slovenians will also find themselves, so that from the airline to the tourist organizations, to our beautiful Slovenian cities they will finally be able to live and feel the tourist beat and earn a great deal. Those are the facts, too. But now to speak numbers; I believe that the number is approximately real, between €60 million and €100 million. I'm sure it's real. But this one could be a lot smaller if we find each other. If I had the opportunity and the right, but I do not have it, before such an important decision that is before us today, we should somehow agree - but it does not go through the letter of the law or otherwise - that our decision today would be made absolutely and only by consensus. This means a great responsibility that we will show to our country and to our citizens. Not a single vote against that decision. However, if I had this option, I would say that the position is unfortunately or that the position of the State of the Republic of Slovenia would unfortunately not be the presidency in the first half of 2008. But I do hope that this consensus will be reached by all of us today. At least from the speech and from the debate, that's what it sounds like. And if it is, then this is the only position, the position of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no question here what the government will do or what it will do. This is just a pure and difficult task for the government to do at this time. And finally, we're not even gonna talk anymore. But it can be one way or another. And if by consensus this decision is to be taken today, colleagues and colleagues, I warn you once again, we have made this important decision and we will be responsible for all the work and tasks to begin immediately, so that we do not arrive in 2007 at the experience that we have learned from past periods and someone will say, "Oh, what now, now we have to do this?" No, no, no. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we have repeatedly warned, we had a clear position on entry, but we respect and are obliged to respect the will of the Slovenes and Slovenians, even in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the decision submitted. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u193	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supports the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union and the European Council. At the first debate in the Group of Members, we were surprised by the scope of our obligations, both in terms of organisational, substantive and human resources issues and, of course, at a relatively high cost. For this reason, we had concerns and reservations. We have been thinking about delaying the Presidency for one year to a second period of three countries in order to become economically stronger in order to make it easier to bear the high cost of this project. Today, after careful consideration, it was not possible to pass on the fact that this challenge must be accepted as soon as possible, as costs could not be avoided in the later period, and the early Presidency would undoubtedly bring relatively rapid external affirmation and, of course, the possibility of a direct impact on the implementation of our priorities and interests in the European Union. As we support such a position, which has reached the great consensus of all parliamentary parties, we must not be afraid that, as with all major decisions, we would not be part of this great and challenging task ahead of us. For this reason, our parliamentary group will unanimously support the position of the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mrs. Possonec has the floor. He's quitting. There is a debate between Members and Members on the building of the College and the Government. Mr Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The decision before us today is certainly extremely important and I think first of all that all the institutions that have started preparations in this country in a timely manner should be commended, so that we make a decision in a timely manner and, of course, Slovenia will also be able to prepare adequately for the challenges ahead. There has already been a significant change since the period of association, when we know that the State Assembly, in the end, in time of time, literally at night meetings, has adopted complete packages, dozens of laws to catch up with a timetable that was previously not given enough attention when it was due to that time. This, of course, is primarily the government’s fault, which did not prepare these things at the time, this time, as it is said, is different. The decision is certainly such that I agree with those who say that it must be the subject of the broadest national consensus, one that will in some way justify the confidence of all of us in this national assembly, the confidence that we can make a practical plebiscite decision, which is now just over a year old, at a referendum in which we decided to join the European Union. And if we enter the European Union, that means we accept this as a challenge and a responsibility. I have always agreed with those who have warned that the European Union must not be its own target, but must be the way to achieve and enforce Slovenia in the world. Allow me to read you just one sentence from a letter sent to me today by a professor from Primorska; "the international image of Slovenia is almost non-existent". He speaks, of course, mainly from the experience of Europe, which he knows well, perhaps under the impression of the situation on the Italian side, because it is from that end. But what is essential is nowhere else in Europe and nowhere else in the world. And that has a lot of consequences. It is a matter of the fact that Slovenia cannot exercise its vital interests sufficiently effectively because of its lack of recognition, lack of presence and perhaps even because of its own lack of interest in the past few years. Now we have a unique opportunity to make a difference. As it is not only a matter of responsibility, it is also an honour to be the first of the new members to join the EU and to belong to it in order to be able to lead the EU during this mandate period. I know first-hand that there was quite a bit of interest in many other new members in order to gain this opportunity, but for many reasons, for which we have already spoken, this honour has been ours. Therefore, I believe that the only responsibility is to respond positively to this challenge, to accept it, to prepare ourselves responsibly and to carry it out as best we can. And once again, I warn you, this is a challenge, a journey. I'd like to warn you about something. The beginning of how this debate has now emerged after the elections in some media, even some debates today have reflected this in some way, I think it is not right, it is not fair. See, highlighting only the cost pay or over-emphasizing the cost salary, of course, in my firm opinion, has a specific political objective. The goal, which is justified by the fact that in the elections the electorate spoke up and suddenly some started what they had previously, I suppose, sincerely advocated, outspokenly advocated only with a fig in their pocket, or else work elsewhere, not quite so. From Brussels, as well as from some, for example, parts of the state administration are leaking information to collect and forward exactly those information that are only negative, to talk only about costs, to even some of them having the task of collecting exactly negative salaries and then to present it to the public accordingly. I don't think that's good. It is a matter of the fact that the numbers with which it has been operated here are very varied. I think the government representative said it quite well. This can range from about 10 to 14 and, of course, up to 30 or 28, as he said, billions of tolars. So the numbers are relatively high at first sight. But you need to know that it's not some kind of money that goes abroad. This is mainly used for things that are just happening here or at least partly happening here and it is largely for our people and our companies and it certainly does not mean a weaker country, but, as I have pointed out several times before, the opportunity that Austria has used best, and this was the highest number that the LDS representative mentioned earlier. They actually spent about 100 million euros. Why? Not only for work, but because they have used their first presidency to the maximum for the coordinated and organised promotion of Austria as a country, its cultural wealth and potential tourism. And that, here's a general assessment across Europe, has done very well. This is the challenge I was talking about, this is the opportunity that we are being offered, and therefore it is also pointless to speak now in any way about the fact that costs are too high, that this means, as the term used by the LDS representative, even a change in development priorities in the future. No, gentlemen, this decision alone represents a change in development priorities without bringing it. If the developmental priority for LDS, as we have seen in our own eyes, for us the purchase of Falcone is the developmental priority of the international application of the country of Slovenia at home and in the world, and all that can then mean for the better life of our citizens and citizens, not only in the short term, but also in the long term in Europe as our common country. Therefore, I will be happy to support the decision that is before us today, so that we can take this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u197	Dear Mr. President, the well-respected assembly. I am joining all that has been said positively about our presidency. We all know it's a big project. If the cost stories are not avoided, it is 15,000 tolls per citizen of Slovenia at the time, it is very, very large money, but it does not seem so important to me, it seems more important to prepare well for this duty, this obligation, this right and this honour, and, of course, for the benefit of Slovenia and for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia, at this time. I think there will be a lot of things to do here and not only in Ljubljana, not only here in the center, but everywhere in Slovenia, if we really want to draw as much out of this investment as possible. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. We've talked a lot about these human resources new needs. Even in this whole project, what will happen to all these people after this matter is concluded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u199	Thank you, President. First of all, I find it a little funny, when we're all in the same corner, there's someone, I think of a colleague of Grims, who stresses the differences between us at all costs, and from all the discussions, with all the warnings that these discussions have had so far, the enthusiasm, the optimism that we are going into this project together. Therefore, I find it unnecessary and inappropriate to ignore certain concerns, disqualify them and make them less meaningful. If I continue where my colleague Potrce ended up, who delivered the opinion of the United Nations Group of Members. As you have seen, there is no question between us or the voice of the decision to have Slovenia take over this presidency within the proposed deadline. And I think the government was right and responsible when it transferred the decision to the National Assembly at the time it was in charge of running business. Otherwise, if anyone had any concerns, they would be almost meaningless, because as new members of the European Union, we have to take on this task, if not now, and later. And I agree with everyone who says it's better now than later. The very meaning of this Presidency has already been discussed, so I will not continue here. So the question is not whether the Presidency is going to be adopted or not, but how qualitatively we will prepare ourselves for it and how qualitatively we will do it. The tasks that will be before the European Union at that time - in part there has been some talk about this, but in my opinion too little - will be extremely difficult. From the challenges of the implementation of the Constitutional Treaty, if ratified in all parliaments and in referendums, the functioning of the Constitutionally Expanded Union to those challenges affecting the process of its further enlargement. And these are difficult challenges. To the role of Europe, if we want, in the wider international context and in particular in addressing global crises. I am afraid that the Iraq-wide and broader Middle East crisis with its most famous elements, which we call inadequate American policy and terrorism, will still be open and still painful. And, of course, Europe's role in establishing a different relationship between the developed and underdeveloped parts of the world and the major polluters of the environment and, in particular, the climate [[I am primarily referring to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol]] . If we ourselves are not exemplary in this time or successful, economic, social, political, by enabling or setting up all the necessary things for further economic growth, to consolidate the social state and to set everything for balanced and sustainable development, to follow, in short, the Lisbon Strategy, to properly prepare for the adoption of the euro, to maintain not only formal, but also the actual level of minority rights achieved, minority protection and the level of interculturality achieved in our area, to correct the overwhelming image of the sexual representation of our country's leading structures or to respect the principles of equal opportunities, judging by how we have chosen and choose our leadership here in the National Assembly, there is little hope that we will also meet this need. To address the deleted problem and restore full dignity to the category of human rights, to address the border issue with Croatia and enter Schengen; to put ourselves at the head of the advocates of peace policy, or the doctrine of preventive policy, and to the explicit unequivocalness of the other doctrine, which says, first strikes and then talks. And last but not least, we know what occasional surveys of our European popularity have gone up on the European rating scale. If we do not prove ourselves successful and identifiable in these two years and a month, how much time we have left to prepare, the Presidency will also be more modest and difficult, at best only routinely. However, if we follow the above, the responsibility for this presidency will be shared. I wish this were the case, and I would like to contribute to it myself. If you'll excuse me at the end of the line. I think it comes to me that day when Slovenia decided whether to take over the organisation and performance of the world championship in the handball. We have prepared ourselves properly and have achieved great success because we have been excellent organisers and, of course, we have achieved decisive success with our representation. So, of course, it is up to us to properly prepare ourselves both organizationally and in the way we play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u201	It is probably expected that if we have entered the European Union, it will come to us sooner or later to take the presidency. We did not have the option to decide which group or within what time frame we could take it. But if you are in a community like that, then of course you are expected, and even for everyone like that, it is also an opportunity to take on such a function. I don't know why on this earlier team or early. That's how it came about. Perhaps it is also because we have done a lot of "breeding" as our country has done on the principle of these countries that have entered the European Union and has best "cautious" this adjustment process, including its economic and economic sphere. This needs to be understood not only in terms of costs, these are certainly important factors that affect how we behave, but also to understand what opportunities we gain by doing so. Like a company that decides either to invest or to buy or to do anything to do some kind of analysis, and we have to do it on our own. There are certain opportunities, not only that we are being respected, but also that we can draw something from this in an economic sense, in an economic sense, in a financial sense, which will ensure greater economic efficiency. We should ask ourselves, in addition to these questions which I would not have raised so much - about human rights. Slovenia is high on human rights in the world. So about deleted squares and similar things that are probably happening in Slovenia and elsewhere. But above all, how our country will become interesting to investment. What has happened in recent years is, of course, unacceptable. People will, of course, be able to think about human rights and debate, perhaps even in Cankar's home, but with poor economic policy, however, their eyes will focus primarily on whether they can survive every day. And this is now a question in Slovenia for a lot of people, how to survive, how to pay tuition and more. In short, it's up to us. I support this, it's normal, it's expected, but let's ask ourselves, really, is there an opportunity in this for us, I think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The undeniable fact is that in the Slovenian National Party we opposed Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Two of the many reasons our Members mentioned at the time, why not the European Union, were the great costs of participating in European society and Slovenia's unwillingness to join the EU. That's when you named us or named our client as a party that scares people before entering the European Union. Today we have two of these facts ahead of us. 60 to 100 million euros and 30 billion Slovenians must be a huge cost for the Presidency of the European Union. We have also heard that 40 new officials will have to be employed, which also proves that Slovenia has not been prepared or ready for the presidency of the European Union. On the other hand, the fact that the Presidency of the European Union is a dear one, but it is an honor and I am very interested today to hear how much benefit we will have from this Presidency, I am very interested in what these concrete benefits will be provided by the people who will provide these funds for the Presidency; but the undeniable fact is also that the foundation of democracy is the people's will and people have decided at the referendum in the majority that Slovenia is going to the European Union. We jumped into the pool, we have to swim in this pool, just so that Slovenia does not drown in this pool of the European Union, I will support the proposed decision myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Battelli has the floor. He's quitting. The next one has the word, Mr Friday, Miro Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I will support the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia in the world of the European Union and the European Council with the hope that we will finally achieve the same jealous and high-level assessment that Ireland has recently received. The offer is very important for the reputation of our country, of course if we can make the most of it. The nomination itself shows the favour of the other countries from Europe, from the European Union to Slovenia, and we must not ignore the fact that many countries would like to take our place and take over the leadership of the Council of the European Union in this mandate that is set for us. Apparently, Slovenia is among the most prepared novelties. Allow me another call in this place. The reputation of the country in the world is very important, and for me the even more important reputation and trust that Slovenians and Slovenians have in our rule of law, our policy and our policy. This is not even so much public research, and in this assembly we will have to work to restore confidence in our country and in our policy and to bring it closer to the trust and praise that Slovenia, as a country, has given to us abroad. There's been a lot of mention of money here. Of course, this €60 million, or 100 million, is not a small amount of money, on the contrary. This is a very large amount of money, and for this money we could do a lot in Slovenia. However, this cost obviously awaits us, whether we are going to the EU Council Presidency in the first term or at a later date. We have decided to join the EU in a referendum, just realizing that this membership is a positive and negative one. I am confident, however, that the future government will do its utmost to repay this financial contribution and repay it with interest. I will therefore also support the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia in the Council of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps I would like to point out some of the points that I have already said on the committee today. Let me begin by saying that it is necessary, in my opinion, to strongly and without hesitation, to support the decision to join the first group of the Presidency. Not because of these or those confessions, because we are the best-prepared member, but also because of the recognitions forward and backward, but mainly because of the active policy of Slovenia in the EU. Nor does it need to be taken over by this Presidency because of some kind of promotion, since we are not a tourist agency of the National Assembly. These are parallel positive consequences that will be useful and good. It is important to be aware that the Presidency will significantly increase Slovenia's formal and informal influence in the EU institutions, not only during the Presidency but also immediately within the next six months, if this is confirmed, the voice of Slovenian representatives will be treated and treated differently. It's a voice, from my experience I know it, it's the voice of someone who in a few months or a year or two, will take over the exercise into their hands. That is why I know that it is not necessary to prepare for the presidency, but that the presidency begins in some sense tomorrow, if I may point this out. And that's always been the case, and from experience it's reliable. I am well aware of how strongly they listen to the views of a future EU presidency. Most importantly, in the Presidency, we can choose certain topics and problems that we choose within the formal framework and impartiality and are particularly interested in, push them forward, if I may say so, and achieve more than if we did not preside. A limited number of topics need to be selected, these topics need to be decided and worked on immediately. However, it must be realized that this is indeed a challenging task. A demanding task on the financial side, which will constitute a restructuring of the budget, will not be possible to achieve additional public expenditure if we are to achieve the euro at the same time, and of course this will not be easy to deliver. Also from the point of view of human resources, which are limited in the Slovenian public administration. This limitation cannot be overcome at once. This limitation should be borne in mind that it is not only by number but also by the conduct and knowledge to be acquired. A lot was done, huge, but for such a meal, of course, it was not enough. It is therefore necessary to be aware and, above all, the coalition must be aware that this is a serious task, which cannot be rejected literally. With general agreement, I would also expect the Prime Minister to come forward, the new President, to be here today, in addition to the principle of consent or support, to express some belief that it will also be so that it would never happen - I am not too pessimistic to do so, but nevertheless - that it would not happen at any time that an old government and parliament, which was not fully aware of the consequences, pushed into this situation. I say that I am aware of these consequences, and I draw attention to these consequences of the Prime Minister and all his colleagues, future ministers and so on. I would add a word to that - because I have to - a comment on the implementation of my colleague Grimes, who is not there at the moment, but I will read the minutes of the meeting. The fact that the government has not done enough to harmonise legislation and that we have had to work the last days before entry, of course, is not true. It should be noted that certain directives were adopted late in the European Union and could not be technically harmonised before the deadline. And I must say that we were one of the few countries that succeeded; not all succeeded; we succeeded. Secondly, certain provisions had to enter into force exactly when they entered the European Union, not sooner than later. And from the nature of Slovenian legislation, it is best to actually adopt it just before and when it enters into force; and we have also done so. [[For example, the Law on Electronic Communications]] . Finally, one last fine coordination had to be done before entry. All the countries that have entered the European Union have significantly increased their legislative activity just before entry. I remember the Austrian Parliament sitting all night in 1994. Unfortunately, this burden had to be borne by the government coalition itself. I remember, for example, obstructions before the adoption of the law on electronic communications, for which I later read on the SDS website that this is a well-prepared law. Here you are gentlemen then - and ladies, as many as there were - have left the hall and I must tell you this, I promise I will not repeat this too many times in the next four years, but perhaps again. The activist discourse of Branko Grims, the coalition, will not lead you far. That's what I'm serious about. I advise a more sober and realistic approach. Just swearing on the importance of the task will not bring us a millimeter closer to its realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I join all those who express almost unanimous support for the decision we have obtained in the material as a proposal for the text to be supported. In doing so, I am not impressed by any particular euphoria, because what is right and, after all, the responsibility of all members of the European Union is something that needs to be carefully considered, considered options and, finally, weighed consequences. I am aware of the many benefits that the Presidency of the European Union will have. At the same time, I am aware that what now appears to be an opportunity will prove or be confirmed only after the Presidency has been carried out; it shows that in the first half of 2008. And I hope that then there will be great satisfaction, and that we will be included among those countries that have made good use of the opportunity. However, in all of this, I am aware that this is a very responsible business, which must be precisely targeted. Therefore, I think it is necessary to adopt a comprehensive programme that will address the urgent coordination within the government and also the coordination of all tasks, obligations, financial implications, human resources needs, including within those institutions or in the relationship between the government and other institutions that have so far been involved in the functioning of the European Union. Finally, it would also be right to define all the obligations that the National Assembly will have to assume and will certainly increase the volume of commitments during this half-year period. I do not know if we have already fully reviewed what awaits us, and here I think it would be good to follow the positive practices of some other Presidency countries, in particular those with only limited human resources, as we do. The second thing I would like to stress is that, according to my priorities to be met at this time of the presidency, in many ways, both the Lisbon strategy and the financial perspective or the entry into the euro area are predetermined, but that we can certainly add a priority that will be unique to us. And why not, for example, one priority to address the democratic deficit, which my colleague, Aurelio Juri, has recently talked about, however we define it. Because it seems essential to me that this presidency would, however, become a project that would be a project of national consensus, which would not be a project of political elite and some bureaucratic structure, but would be a project of the state of Slovenia. And here I think it would be possible to take a good look at what the Netherlands has finally offered as its specific priorities. I was directly fascinated by the fact that they hoped to place themselves among the priorities of highlighting Europe's cultural diversity. They stressed, among other things, how important it is for new members to be presented with their cultural tradition to other countries. I ask you, do we now, at this moment, hope to say that we have good practice in solving the minority issue? Of course, I am referring to the question of national communities. Whether we are satisfied with this question, as we have resolved, whether it is a positive practice, or whether practice confirms that all marital matters are also well done. Finally, of course, one would wonder whether this is also a great opportunity for us to make the effort that we all like to make in our local environment. In view of the fact that the Presidency will allow the spread of individual activities throughout Slovenia, and thus to balance responsibilities and at the same time the advantages of the Presidency. And it would also be possible to find opportunities, which, I am sure, the new government will start to think sailily and, given the legal provisions on the relationship between Parliament and the government, when it comes to the affairs of the European Union, will also quickly draw up a programme for Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members, and Members! My predecessor mentioned earlier one thing the opposition did when the law on electronic communications was adopted, about electronic communications, because I do not know what it was called; but there is something else to be added to this. This law was, as a system law, pushed through this national council by an emergency procedure. If you remember, we got a bunch of material that was still warm and recopyed and brought it to us on the bench, and they said, and now you decide. And since the opposition, of course, did not want this type of work, she then left the hall and left it to you to adopt the law yourself in five minutes. That's the fact. Ambassador Gantar, I'm glad you said you wouldn't talk about this many times, but every time you do, we'll tell you the same thing. And I am sure that this is not how the current ruling position will adopt laws, because this is inappropriate because you exploited the urgent procedure, abused all the laws you wanted quickly, without much discussion being adopted. And what you mentioned was one of those laws. Go, and see and see: what I say is pure truth. Secondly, the Prime Minister, who, of course, does not yet have a government, has already identified himself here. If you have listened carefully to it, in his presentation of the programme on this issue, which we have today on the agenda, he said his definition. But I'm like a Member in a bit of a dilemma. Today we are all deliberating and we will wish to do so, this purpose of the Dutch Presidency has been supported, but I am very concerned that the current government or the government has not equipped us with any documents in departure, with no plan. Here today we're talking, I don't know, about two thousand meetings, I don't know what kind of apparatus we need, about large funds, and this means comparing how many libraries we could build, how many pediatric clinics, I don't know, we could still say how many Falcons and so on, but it doesn't make any sense. The fact is, this National Assembly has been pushed into a situation where we have to decide what is being offered to us on our noses this week. And, of course, we can now weigh the positive and negative sides of this proposal, we can draw up what this will be like in an organisational sense, and this will be a burden for the new government and for this Parliament. And at this point, it is expressed both by the mandate holder and by this National Assembly of Desires and the willingness to do so. And if I quote Krek, who once said, "It's all art that needs to be started." And if we start, then we will also learn how one Slovenia, which has been given this opportunity to be first among the new members of the European Union in the first round, can take on such an important function immediately after the Treaty has been ratified. I think that as far as the financial burden is concerned, there is no need for this financial burden to be so. We do not need to follow the example of other countries. I am convinced that we need to create our own programme here and, through our programme, also in real terms in a financial sense, we need to carry out this project. However, I am very much in favour of accepting the opportunity offered and also in this way helping to consolidate the validity of Slovenia in the world. I'm sure a lot of people will be able to envy us for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u213	Dear President! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are talking about a referendum decision, so it is not likely that it will be debated whether we support it or not. It is clear, however, that this will have certain financial implications for our budget, which are not so small, but every school costs something and I would like to turn this thing around somehow differently. Today it pains me that we have a local self-government unable to somehow have a state apparatus unable to obtain funds because we see that we are bringing them back to Brussels too, because we have not used them properly or we do not have the right programs. I myself have also raised the question of the government's contribution in recent years, which we have had to pay back, we are talking about millions of euros. And given the fact that we will be employed in 2005, given that it has been written in the influences on the public administration of 40 or some 100 new people who will be equipped with this knowledge, I strongly wish that we will also move this knowledge to administrative units or municipalities, so that we can successfully compete to obtain international funds for the creation of the Schengen border, for the loss of jobs, and finally for the development of agriculture, which we know is, in the EU, one way or another, the most handicapped sector and neglected. And last but not least, I expect that despite spending 60 to 100 million euros or we need to talk in tolars, 24 billion so that we can somehow get that money back. That's why I think it's some school that's going to cost us a lot of money, though. I also appreciate that, in essence, as my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party have already said, it is an honorable act and, above all, the will of the people expressed in the referendum, which is why I will also support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Miss Jeraj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The Presidency of Slovenia in the EU Council and the European Council, together with Germany and Portugal, is a unique opportunity and at the same time a challenge. With all the fears that have been expressed in the past that we will somehow melt within the EU and countries with far more inhabitants than we have ourselves, I think the opportunity we should, if I may say so, grasp it with both hands. Slovenia is and is still investing a lot of resources to promote beyond our borders. The question is whether these funds are used rationally or not - it is likely to be in another debate. It is clear that certain resources will need to be provided for this. But this height actually depends on us, that is, on Slovenia, which will decide what it wants to achieve. If we want to achieve a greater impact and impact in the long term, it is said to put Slovenia on some particular place in the EU, promote Slovenia, present its specificities, establish ourselves as a modern and economic state, we will devote more resources to this, or we will use less. Once again, it depends on what we want to achieve with this. The challenge to me is what the government sees as an extremely demanding project: the establishment of human and logistical support or organisation. Are we able to do this? I'm sure we are. It is also a challenge to train staff and provide a sufficient number of officials, but 40 to 100 officials should not be such a problem with all unemployment, but when we know that many of the unemployed are also in university education and would probably want such work only, they will probably remain within an EU official apparatus. In addition, I believe that the OSCE Presidency in 2005 would be a good school and preparations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Council two years later. Once again, I believe that the Presidency is a unique opportunity, and Slovenia has the opportunity and the opportunity to prove itself. As we know, the missed opportunities do not come back, and the thought of making a decision once later, when we think we may have enough resources for it, is not exactly in place. We have missed quite a few opportunities in the past and no one guarantees that we will have them again, so I hope we will not miss this too. I will support the proposed decision in the belief that preparations will begin very quickly and intensively and that we will also make our decision as well as possible or very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u216	Thank you, Miss Jeraj. Mr. Germich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The invitation made and offered by the Dutch Presidency by Slovenia to take over the presidency as the first of the new members was no surprise to me. There was no surprise at the experience I could have had in working within the European Parliament as an observer and as a member of the European Parliament in the previous period, where, of course, Slovenia had already played a very important active role as a policy maker within the European Union. I would therefore like to correct here that, of course, this proposal by the Dutch Presidency does not mean the role of Slovenia to create an active policy, but that it also strengthens its active role in the formulation of an active policy within the European Union. Of course, this seems very important to me because today there were quite a few indications that much had been left behind or done differently or wrong or wrong. My experience and assessment is supported by all the reports of the European Commission, which monitored the adaptation of its legislation to the European Union and the adoption of harmonisations of the European legal order, where Slovenia has, in fact, been at the forefront of the whole period. Another important point to be made is that Slovenia has developed one system, which has already been a model for many countries within 15 Member States, and certainly for all other candidates, how it has carried out the procedures for adapting its legal order to the legal order of the European Union, where it has actively involved both the government and the Parliament. Here I think there have been several signals before that Slovenia is given special attention. Let me mention here only that Mr Peterle was a member of the Slovenian Presidency of the Convention, which was certainly one of the recognitions of all the achievements Slovenia had in its active role in creating an active European policy, and, of course, its role as one that could actively co-designate the treaties, i.e. the new constitutional treaties. Of course, it seems very important to me within this that this active role by Slovenia continues even after entry, and the Dutch Presidency had this in mind when it proposed a three-way, the first three after 2006, that is, early in 2007. This seems extremely important to me for the reason that it is not yet clear how the Presidency will be introduced. And of course, Slovenia will be in a more difficult position here, as if the situation were clear today, because we do not know whether the treaty, the new constitutional regime, will already be in force or not. In this case, this fact will remain unclear for a long time in 2006, allowing Slovenia to take an active role from the beginning of 2007. It seems very important to me that Slovenia plays an extremely important active role in issues related to the financial perspective. Here I think it is an extremely important question to decide what the contribution of each Member State to the amount of the social gross product will be. And of course, Slovenia already has an extremely clear position on this, of course, that the new financial perspective must make it possible to implement the Lisbon Strategy, so that by 2010 we will bring the European Union into the leading global economies. And of course here it seems very important to me that when we make this decision today - I am sure that with full consensus, at least today is how it is here to understand these discussions - it will become very active - and here I agree with the predecessors who said that, of course, this active role does not start when it becomes a member of the troika, but it will start playing as soon as it takes this decision. And, of course, for Slovenia, which wants to be a knowledge-based society that wants to translate innovations into new technological achievements, which want to be based on substantially more added regularity, such a perspective is based on the national development strategy. Here I think that what will be the great impact for Slovenia is, and I also agree that financial evaluation alone is not a comprehensive evaluation and will, of course, have multiple effects within the European Union. The multiple effects that will be very difficult to evaluate in a short time, while at the same time very difficult to obtain in a comprehensive assessment. Therefore, I think it is extremely important for us to be able to develop clear positions of priority during this period, pending the launch of the presidency, and to train institutions to do effectively the work ahead of us. Here I would still touch on this, although it has already been said that the Prime Minister has already expressed his support for this project, that I miss it here today, because the debate on this issue is actually going on today, this debate did not take place when we talked about the candidate for Prime Minister, but we are discussing this issue today and, of course, it would be very good to hear his opinion today. This is particularly because we have heard many times from the opposition in the previous term that, of course, in the European Parliament, it is impossible to imagine that either the President of the Council or the President of the European Commission does not participate in the debates when we are talking about issues of such importance that we are talking about today. Of course, I would also like to make this clear to his position that he supports what was adopted today on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and also what I believe will be adopted here in plenary today. So, I will vote in favour of the conclusions put forward, and I am sure that Slovenia will, as it has been for many years, have played a leading role and in the creation of European policy, this creativity will strengthen this active role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Well, since there has already been a few reflections on why Mr Janša is not here to show his position, I must say that we do not have any business opportunity to involve him as a representative of the new government in any way and to request an answer from him, but I think he has already told the public clearly enough. We continue the debate. It's Mr. Weber's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u219	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The fact is that the mandate that has expired has classified us as the best-prepared new members of the European Union, and this has also included us in the first group to be able to preside over the Council of the European Union. And after the two biggest projects that were present during this period, this is integration into the European Union and, of course, also into the NATO Union, somehow in the previous mandate, there was one of the most important national themes and I think that today is very close to at least part of the response that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is one of the biggest challenges or national projects in this mandate that we are starting. The Presidency will, of course, be a great responsibility and, above all, a test of maturity both in the internal political field and, of course, in the foreign policy field. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have always taken very seriously all the most important topics that strengthen the situation of Slovenia and which, in particular, strengthen its economic and social development within it. I look at this project in a similar way. So it will really be necessary to take very seriously all the procedures and activities with which we will certainly have to follow not only the principles of Slovenia, but I think also the very well-known principles of the functioning of the European Union. We are in one of the calmest and most advanced continents and, of course, stable economic development, ensuring equitable development or reducing differences between European regions or countries and involving new members are certainly very important starting points for the functioning of the European Union, even at a time when the Presidency is to take over Slovenia. It will certainly be very important that, by then, we resolve some of the issues that remained open, especially at the end of the previous term, and on which, last but not least, the right hand, which received majority support in the elections, has actually built its success. It will therefore be necessary to clarify, in particular, the issues and attitudes to decisions of the Constitutional Court, in particular those relating to human rights. Without these clear questions, it will be extremely difficult to assume all tasks with credibility and also to try to address these issues in all other parts of Europe. This also makes it extremely important for us to discuss these issues very seriously within Slovenia. Whether the financial contribution invested in the Presidency is large, large, too small is, of course, a question that is difficult to answer. However, the fact is that if you are chairing the European Union, you certainly also have an insight into the existing European market within the European Union itself, as well as a view of the market of the Member States preparing for entry into the European Union. And these are the challenges that will certainly be extremely important and on the basis of which, in my opinion, we will also be able to obtain a lot of information for both our economy and financial institutions, to try to organise themselves both within the possibilities already offered by the European Union through individual structural funds and financial institutions, and also to upgrade our economic orientations and financial institutions in a way that we can also take an important role in the market within the European Union and in future Member States, as well as in other parts of the world that will look at Slovenia, if it succeeds, in a completely different light than if it does not take advantage of these options. That is why I think the financial contribution is one of the necessary conditions, and I think it will be returned in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I have to say that in the course of today's debate, I have actually come up with one very important or interesting question: how can the so-called democratic deficit actually be addressed, but when, in such generally important decisions as today's is, in spite of one, I will say, a flat-rate consensus of political parties, in fact, the debate is always more or less about accusing one and the other, what they might do or why they have not done something about it and this law - I do not know what kind of law in the field of the European Union or what kind of law is purely in the field of domestic policy. However, as regards the finding that the priorities are different, it is sad that some of Slovenia's priorities today, when it adopts a very important law, are, in fact, one of the most important, likely to be adopted within a certain period of time, perhaps even in the mandate ahead of us, that they do not see today between these priorities of a project worth around EUR 100 billion or millions, I apologize, or the value of such a project. But I am glad that you are actually aware of more or less what will have to be done or what will happen if we do not. It is not true that it is actually good that the National Assembly has moved from the euphoric debates that Slovenia entered the European Union to a more sober one, and I hope that it will also be more responsible. Well, and today, for example, the question is also raised whether we have sufficient staff in Slovenia. I must point out that the issue was not actually on the table, because the question does not belong to the National Assembly today. This must not, in fact, be, and cannot, be, the question that the National Assembly or the government is dealing with. The fact is, if Slovenia has decided to take such a step, it must have a sufficiently qualified staff. Therefore, it is necessary to start today, or immediately, by resolving such issues. Well, maybe I'd like to point out for the end - I won't hold back too much about financial matters, because the speech about this was enough - to conclude, perhaps I would point out just one more matter, which was more or less cynically mentioned, by the way. As regards tourism or the possibility for Slovenia to take a step forward in the development of tourism during the presidency. Anyone who doesn't appreciate a small one isn't really worth a big one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u223	Your Honor! It is nice to work in an atmosphere where the opposition and position are slowly approaching consensus. That's why I'm going to press the key under which it appears to be a simple "for" word, with full responsibility, but also with zeal. Taking into account, of course, a number of arguments, both from the College of the President of the National Assembly and the European Union Home Affairs Committee, not least the opinions of the Council of State, the views of all the leaders of the Group of Members and of all of you, the honourable Members and Members you have spoken today. The fact is that it was decided to join the EU at exactly 864.065 Slovenk and the Slovenians. A possible number that has drawn the foundations of our international direction. At the time when we voted fast, we did not expect to be in this prestigious club of 25, that we would not just be dipping honey and milk - ambrosia and nectar. We were probably aware that this membership also brings us obligations, that it brings us weaknesses and we had to expect the embodiment of the old Slovenian proverb, that there is no music without money. We have a unique opportunity not only to listen to some top-notch symphony, but to play the first violin in this symphony orchestra. Although there is no concrete data on what this Presidency will bring us, I personally believe that it will bring us more international reputation, I also conclude from my own international experience that it will bring us greater visibility and likely bring us some economic opportunity. But, of course, we must not forget all those warnings that have been well argued today without the intention of voting against, namely, warnings concerning the economic or financial, human and administrative consequences of our membership or our Presidency. But these are all the burdens, in my opinion, which still justify the objective, which still excuses the proposed presidency. So allow me to conclude with the saying, with the thought of transfusing us for the next four years, that a soul without a high purpose is like a boat without a helm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I support the position that the Republic of Slovenia will adopt the Presidency of the Council of the EU and the European Council. In this case, I think it is a national project around which we need to reach political consensus, just as we have achieved political consensus when we enter Euro-Atlantic connections. Certainly, therefore, it is not just a government project. It is a valuable experience when each of the government's adopted negotiating venues has yet to be discussed with the competent committee in the National Assembly, which was a Slovenian specialty. We will also have to include the National Assembly fully in this Presidency project and, of course, the competent labour force for European affairs in particular. The experience gained by the Republic of Slovenia in the years of EU structural adjustment will also be very valuable for the EU Presidency. The process of adapting and adopting European legislation has been a very demanding project, so there is no fear that we would not be able to take over and successfully meet this challenge as well as the first new Member of the European Union to preside over the Council of the European Union and possibly the European Council. During the negotiations, some 2,000 officials went from 1998 to the entry. This is a huge human resources potential that we have to make absolutely use of. That's why he's afraid that we're not gonna be part of this project in person, too. Of course, provided that this fact and experience are taken into account by the new government. The financial implications will not be negligible. According to the experience of other countries, the maximum cost of the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia will be 24 billion tolars, as has already been said today, about 0.4% of the gross social product. However, the financial implications are not so great that our state budget cannot manage them. The negotiating process and the structural adjustment of our country between 1998 and 2004 were also not cheap. Some estimates suggest that these costs were even significantly higher. They are estimated at 2 to 4% of the gross social product per year. The costs of the presidency will therefore be significantly lower. Austria, too, also neighbouring Austria, took over the presidency four years after the entry into the European Union and, as has been heard from well-informed circles, only then did they get a good look at the internal structure and functioning of the European Union. We have decided to join the European Union. This was also convincingly demonstrated by the result of the referendum. After all, Slovenia's entry into this connection would also be a fundamental joint project of Slovenian policy over the last ten years, so there is no reason not to accept this commitment and to make full use of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mrs. Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u227	Please. Thank you very much. Slovenia's entry into the European Union was among the most supported projects by voters. I am sure that the Presidency offered is part of the European policy that we are part of. They'd be really embarrassed if we didn't take it. We would not be considered a serious member of the European Union. So let us accept what they offer us, and let us act responsibly. The way back is gone, but of course it costs, because it has some negative and positive consequences. I'm sure if we know what this is all about, there'll be more positive ones. I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr. Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleague and colleague! It is nice to be in this high assembly today, when from all previous, more or less debates, positive responses to the preceding item of today’s agenda are drawn. Slovenians are known as good organizers. We have proved ourselves, and we have been commended many times. This is certainly a recognition of our country, and my previous speakers have also agreed, so we must seize this opportunity and challenge. That is, the challenge for the finalisation of our country of Slovenia, that it will no longer happen, that we will be replaced for Slovakia or even for something else. This is also an opportunity and a challenge for our economy, including for our tourism and hospitality, also to cripple our staff in future such projects. Of course, there is a lot of discussion about costs, but these costs are certainly waiting for us, certainly will arise if not in 2007 or 2008 a few years later. I will personally be happy to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Members. We probably all agree that this is a great recognition for Slovenia, especially the work we have done so far. The possibility of Slovenia becoming the first country of accession to preside over the European Union is certainly worth accepting. Of course, it is also worth noting the costs, which must be realized, the costs that potentially reach 24 billion tolars mean that every Slovenian or Slovenian will pay 12,000 tolars for this duty. The fact is that the cost of 24 billion tolars is the same, almost twice the investment in the National University Library or is comparable to twice the investment in higher education for 2005. In short, it's costs, you have to be aware of them. What worries me at this point is that we have this honour, which we will probably accept, that the new financial perspective in the European Union will apply for the period 2007 to 2013 and that, according to my assessment of 2008, it will be extremely important in terms of budget restructuring, in terms of the possibility of drawing funds from the European Structural Funds, which will of course have an important impact on the development of Slovenia. In short, as far as time is concerned, it must be extremely problematic. I would have preferred if this time were ever later, not least because Slovenia will also be able to afford this cost more easily when it is growing economically. In addition, it should be borne in mind that we do not have all the infrastructure built for the presidency, and in this respect the cost is also higher, and gradually this infrastructure would be easier to build. However, I accept, of course, in some way I am pleased with the strong support of the Members of the future coalition of this project, we are looking forward to it together, and I will support it myself if you judge that, as you said, this will not be a more important problem in the financial sense as well. Of course, we must be aware that, as a result, the other strategic priorities that Slovenia has should not be neglected. In short, however, the budget will have to be restructured accordingly; it is 0.4% of gross domestic product. And if we can do that, we'll all be happy. However, the responsibility for ignoring some strategic priorities will not be avoided by the then government. And that's why we need to draw attention to this cost. However, it is a great recognition of Slovenia, as I have said, especially of the work so far and of the best evidence that Slovenia is also a model country among the acceding countries and the one offered the first opportunity to preside over the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Petan? [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Saiovic? [[He's quitting.]] The next is Mr. Beast, who also gives up. Mrs. Shirca, it's your turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u233	Thank you very much. What I think is prestigious in this very decent invitation is undoubtedly the fact that it came very early. We were invited as the first new member, and this is very important, because it would be our turn to do so, but it is also important and eloquent when we arrived. Of course, the decision on whether or not today is not difficult and I am convinced that this decision is largely driven by emotions, emotions, which are a second word for a sense of honor, for a feeling of praise and for an additional weight of self-confidence. For it is very difficult for us to say for ourselves that we are good: if others say so, we are yet to be recognized as good. That is why in today's talks there is less room for "wario" if there are positive feelings, emotional feelings, on the one hand. So there is less room for those questions that may raise doubts as to whether we are humane, spatial, organisational and so forth in favour of the situation. If I can speculate with the advantages in this rational direction too, I can say that we will finally reach a government plane, which museum and the necessary infrastructure building, which has so far been impossible to realize due to the smaller movements in this regard. Of course, I regret that the government has avoided an important segment in the organisation of its future work that would play a decisive role in this context. The question is that you will no longer have, we will no longer have the Ministry of European Affairs, which will integrate into these preparatory and not only organisational processes, but also mental processes. While you will have, or will be, the Ministry of Bureaucratation, which may take care of these staff cuts, it is also worth noting, of course, that it is not only bureaucracy, but also the matter of translation, mental, managerial and other services. I must say, however, that I regret another moment that we have decided today. In the face of much integration, I hope that, even when it comes to the question of the relationship, the government - the National Assembly - will be, and I am sorry to say that we have a leader in the future foreign affairs committee, who may not have the skills of these parquet diplomatic circles, given that he is more of a chemist, and that we have a vice-president, who is just like the current one, from now on, the president of the foreign policy committee is a known traveller, while also a pyrotechnic, numismatic, collector, etc. These are certainly also questions that relate to human resources and all those processes that await us with such a great task. But if this mandate is guided by the government, at least by the programme it brings, which it writes in order to strengthen relations with the United States of America in the future, because, as they say, the orientations of the new Slovenian government programme, if I quote, Slovenia and the United States of America share the same values and related interests. In short, if we strengthen relations with the United States of America in the coming mandate, given that there is a high level of identification with its values, then I am pleased that there will also be reinforcement in this area through this event or through such a process of European Union governance in Slovenia. Of course, it will happen, but thanks to all Slovenians and Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Government representatives also have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u235	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to comment on some of the discussions. Of course, first of all, I would like to conclude that the debate that we have held in just a few hours reflects, I would say, for the first time, the obvious common position that this will be supported, and secondly, confirms the Government in this basic intention that this is necessary to be discussed throughout the national assembly, because this is an important decision. An important decision that will determine the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. That is why we have also tried to provide the information necessary for the informed decision with the documents that first came to the "internal" college and then today to the European Affairs Committee and the plenary session. In this regard, some concerns were raised by individuals as to whether this information was correct. Here we rely on the information we receive from our interlocutors. The interlocutors are organisers in other countries. And I can quote the ambassadors' dispatches that spoke with Luxembourg that it was 85 million euros in Luxembourg, that it was 30 million euros in 2004 and 55 million euros in 2005, twice as much as in Belgium. Of course, Belgium is exercising this Presidency on its domestic soil. So this estimate of between €60 million and €100 million is the assessment that we think is realistic enough. However, everything depends on what type of parallel activities we will decide in Slovenia to carry out in the interim period. In this regard, there have been some good initiatives, the application of Slovenian culture, for example. Secondly, thank you to all those who have displayed good coordination, at least what you have seen in recent months. I think, of course, it is precisely thanks to the co-workers sitting next to me and the co-workers who are doing this in the service of the Government for European Affairs and the Permanent Representation that the documents were prepared properly, on time, as soon as we naturally had the clear intention of the Dutch Presidency. I hope that this good coordination will continue, because, without good coordination, I must say, whether the ministry or not will be a ministry, without a government service, it is true of the one who coordinates European affairs, and this has been the Prime Minister, who has held a special minister, in the past. There is no doubt that the costs will increase. I have no doubt that in the coming years we will not actually have to come to this decision, but that unfortunate government plane will also buy, rent or simply buy seats for one particular purchased Adria's plane. All of these were options in the last three governments, the government before 2000, those governments for six months and, of course, in the government, which then decided that this story around the Falcon was inappropriate and rented. We'll probably have to get to that plane. I have no doubt that you will also make a relatively quick decision on this issue as early as next year, when more than a few times more countries like the European Union will need to coordinate external affairs activities within the OSCE. A few of you here have pointed out the need for the presence of the Commissioner. I must say that in one of the first talks, when the candidate was not a candidate, we were pleased to hear that he had expressed his endorsement or intention to express his commitment to this purpose - in this regard, after the government adopted the material yesterday at the correspondence meeting by letter from the Prime Minister, Mr Ropa was sent to the Commissioner of the letter and, of course, he was asked in a letter, "that it is essential for us to define yourself as the new Prime Minister, as it is a project whose preparation will be one of the central tasks of your mandate or will be marked to a large extent both by the external and internal political quality of the new government", the end of the quote. In this regard, we have asked him to take a position today, of course, on Wednesday 17/11. This was not the view, but as has been said at several meetings by a number of representatives of the future coalition, there is no doubt about it, and I believe that, of course, this communication, which is a special communication, has also done what is necessary for us to act unitedly as Slovenia. Someone mentioned today that, of course, there are no plans. Now, with the plans it is necessary to make a decision first, this decision will be taken today, and then, of course, these plans will need to be drawn up, processed, finalized, and, above all, this will have to be included in what, if you remember, the previous government has, of course, prepared during the summer months, namely, a discussion on the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Within this strategy for the development of Slovenia, a new priority has now emerged under point 5, which is the international application of Slovenia, this is the best preparation for the presidency, because this will naturally strengthen Slovenia's confidence, the recognition of Slovenia and, of course, the awareness of all of us, that we are part of the European Union, equal and that we can, of course, have a major impact on the European Union. It will also be interesting to follow from a point of view how we will chair in the coming months, as ratifications will take place in the other 24 countries of the European Union. I hope that it will be possible to convince voters and voters in Slovenia that the Constitution adopted is an important step forward, that the Constitution adopted allows for the strengthening of the European Union and, above all, allows the European Union of the 25 to work better or act differently than it did in the 15th European Union. So the plans, I think you can make them now. Here's something, I'd say, preliminary preparations have been made and it's true of course what the organisation and this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u236	Please. Only Mr. Squeakle has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u237	We need to see what other countries have done. Where we need to be original, where we need to talk, it is, however, how to implement our own priorities within the European Union 25, especially when we are chairing. Some of you were talking about employment. My colleagues told me that in Sweden, pensioners, including students, including retired former diplomats, have also worked on this, in line with the classical and important role of NGOs in the Swedish Presidency itself. And there is no doubt that the NGO centre could not play an important role here, especially because in Slovenia there is increasing attention. At the end of the day, something talked about emotions. As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we wanted to do with today's debate and with the documents before you what I call an informed decision in the economy, to be aware of all the benefits, to be aware of all the potential problems and to be aware that this is an opportunity, and that we will be able to take advantage of this opportunity, through clear definition and good planning, in order to ensure that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, will preside over the first half of 2008 as a well-prepared and will be evaluated at the end of 2008 by the European Union countries, that we have been a good Presidency. However, voters and voters, citizens and citizens will understand that we have acquired what is necessary in this six-year presidency and financial investment. This is further recognition, new business opportunities. And in this regard, I believe that if we define the priorities correctly, if these priorities are to be properly included, then we should take an important step towards rounding up the European Union into South-Eastern Europe as well. I believe that this will have major economic effects and that this investment will be more than reimbursed. I'm done in this context. I thank you for your attention, and I suggest you support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u238	Thank you, Government Representative, Mr. Cwickle. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed position, we are moving on to a decision on the position. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will first decide on the proposal for the position of the College of the President of the National Assembly. If the Assembly adopts its position, it will become a position of no account. But I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members present, 71 Members voted against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed position has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, the likeness of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The LDS Club proposes to the Assembly to elect Dr. Mark Pavli for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the proposers wish to further explain the proposal? Please. Mr. Slavinac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u239	Your Honor! As can be seen from the CV of Prof. Dr. Mark Pavlich, which you received with the proposal, this is an excellent expert. His bibliography also shows that he is very active in his field; he is a lawyer who, as we can see, progressed very quickly from his degree to his doctorate in science, and, of course, you have been building a career in the field of economics. Not only does he have academic experience but he also has leadership experience. From the academic sphere he was head of the department and also a prodecanus in college, but of course he also has leadership experience in the area of the economy where he was a member of the administration. Its international experience and, above all, its upright attitude are important, since it is one of the very principled lawyers, as we assess in the LDS House of Members as its principal virtue, which will also ensure that this assembly will lead in such a way that it will be constructive and good for all of Slovenia. Among his other professional experiences, as we have said, legal, let me only point out from the hobby diving, because it is very important to mention his character characteristics. It is important because in that world there is co-dependence, then collective spirit and, of course, active compliance with the rules and these characteristics that I am confident that it will also take into account in the conduct of the National Assembly when it is empowered and other activities arising from the Vice-Presidential function, because I am confident that it will adhere to the principles set out in the Rules. For all this we have proposed, we have decided at the LDS House of Members to propose Prof. Dr. Mark Pavli as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Zampernik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, despite the fact that the Human Rights Committee has not been set up today, following the rules of procedure, we will not be in violation of those rights in the same national assembly, in contrast with what took place six months ago. We are responsible for the fact that it is clear in the Rules of Procedure that one of the Vice-Presidents in the National Assembly belongs to the largest opposition party, and therefore, despite the fact that some candidates were proposed or presented as fully independent candidates six months ago, and then, before the rooster doubles, they quickly overturned, this does not prevent us from giving support to the candidate of the Liberal Democracy. By congratulating you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. Anyone else want a word? Mr Barovich in the name of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The facts are clear. The biggest opposition party belongs to the Vice-President and I can say on behalf of those present here, we are very happy that this is Marko Pavliha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Also Mr Kramberger on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members will be pleased to support Professor Mark Pavli as Vice-President of the National Assembly. However, we can say that it is a shame that the Group of Members and decided that, because it has plenty of good candidates and candidates, this National Assembly, as Vice-President, would lead a lady from this Group of Members, because we are all striving for equal opportunities and, of course, we would be happy to support the lady. Otherwise, Professor Pavlich also has our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. I give the floor to Mr Ptræ, who will speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats will support Dr. Pauli. We want and believe that it will be able to help lead the national assembly successfully. We are also sorry that the LDS Group has not decided, although it is its right to apply the principle of equal opportunities in the functions of the National Assembly, but I would like to point out that you are colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, not from the opposition, have the opportunity to take advantage of this right, because it is also the Slovenian People's Party, which did not take advantage of it at the time and prefers to elect another Vice-President for trade, not our colleague mags. Majdo Potrat. By appealing to LDS by coalition parties in this part, they are somewhat distasteful. Finally, the United List of Social Democrats supported the candidate's candidacy for Vice-President even six months ago, including Dr. Rupl, for reasons such as the fact that he believed and that the largest opposition party should have a Vice-President. You didn't think this was particularly good for us back then, but we stayed in charge in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Drobnič has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will also support the candidate, which is also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to select and elect the candidate of the largest opposition party, this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, we respect the decision of the Liberal Democracy Group or the parliamentary club, whatever this club or group is called. Of course, if he is elected, we wish him a successful job and, of course, that he will give us a good beating when something is hot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Since there are no more applications, we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. In the SDS, of course, we are prepared and obliged to respect the rules of procedure, and I will personally follow the principles already presented by the leader of the parliamentary group, but I must certainly say that I have watched the reports on television today, and the main point was how women's equality is now at risk because the Commission proposed by the LDS is not established. But you know, instead of big words, it would be better to do less. I think that in terms of equal representation of women, the LDS would contribute much more if instead of saying the big words today, it did this symbolic act and proposed a candidate. But as I said, because the rules of procedure are clear, we will respect their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u252	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups of Members have forwarded proposals to the members of the panel leading the vote. It's a mag. Andrej Vizjak, SDS, Mr Rudolf Moge, LDS, Mr Aurelio Juri, Joint List of Social Democrats and Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Check the cards. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed ballot in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 8:20 p.m. and will last until 8:30 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We will continue the meeting at 8:40 p.m.; until then, I am adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u253	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We continue the suspension of the fourth item, these are the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 November 2004. 79 ballots were distributed, 79 ballots were delivered, two votes invalid, 77 votes valid. There were 73 votes in favour, with four members voting against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Mark Pavliha was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes cast. [[Let's hear it.]] We congratulate the newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mark Pavliha, and wish him great success in the performance of his duties! I ask, does Vice President Mark Pavlich wish to speak to the National Assembly? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since this was all so quickly, I have no official talk; it is probably good news because everyone is in a hurry to go home. Therefore, I would like to stress only the following things that I have said several times, namely, this famous first paragraph of Article 82 of our Constitution - I cannot pass it either as a lawyer or as an MP - that we are all representatives of the whole people, no matter where we come from. I therefore promise to carry out my Vice-Presidential function in this spirit, in the spirit of Article 20 of our Rules of Procedure, to assist the President of the National Assembly and to represent the interests of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you so much for your support! I have to say, I didn't expect it to be this way, and - what can I say? - Let's move on! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-02.ana.u255	Thank you, Vice President Dr. Mark Pavlich. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
