ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u1	Respectable family of Sheligo, national council, ladies and gentlemen! Especially when it is difficult for us, people like to find out that our lives, personal and public, depend on fate. At the same time, we find again and again how we decide our own lives. This is especially true when those who are decisive in their creative work and moral conduct go away, but I can also say that they have marked well. We were abandoned days ago by great cultural creators and Prešeren's prize winner, Janez Menart and Rudy Sheligo. Rudi Šeligo also impressed a very important political seal on modern Slovenia. He was a member of the first reference to the democratically elected Slovenian Parliament and was chairman of its Committee on Culture. At the turning point of Slovenian history, he had already intervened substantially before and was marked by him, especially as the Minister of Culture. He was a very vital contemporary of political spring and independence and of the great moral authority of the belief and determination that Slovenians are also responsible for themselves in the European future. The question of the people in Slovenia was written along with some other distinguished Slovenian intellectuals. Once again, in history, it is not a question of what others are doing with us, but of what Slovenians are doing with themselves. Our dear colleague and great cousin will be preserved in the best memory by the National Assembly. On behalf of all Members and Members, I extend my condolences and our sincere condolences to the family. But all I'm asking for is a minute of silence. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We are at the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will first inform you which colleagues and colleagues are detained for other obligations. These are colleagues Battelli, Bernik, Horvat, Jakič, Janc, Kebrich, to begin the meeting of Comrade Peterle, colleague of Potret and colleague Spindler. I invited the Prime Minister, to the 1st item of the agenda, all the items on the agenda of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Council of State to the 2nd item, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 20th item of the agenda. I welcome all those present in advance! I would also like to inform you that, with regard to the ratification of the European Accession Treaty, we are starting a debate and decision Wednesday at 10 a.m. We have invited everyone invited to this meeting on special occasions in the National Assembly, including the President of the Republic. At 10 a.m., let me just remind you of the agreement reached at the College, we will begin the debate and, exceptionally, we will conclude the debate with a vote on this agenda item in the course of this meeting. After the vote, I will invite everyone to celebrate this in the lobby of the great hall, with great support for the ratification of this law. I don't have any other important procedural warnings, so we can get to the agenda. He proposed to withdraw from the agenda the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, which is under second reading. I'm asking if anyone wants to give an explanation. If not, we'll move on to a motion for withdrawal. Please, if you can check the operation of your voting devices. Is everything okay? I don't think it's an objection, so I'll put it to the vote. I therefore propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposal by my colleague Pečet to withdraw from the agenda the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda of this meeting. 66 in attendance, 10 in and 47 in. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I find that this proposal has not received support. I have not received any other proposals on the agenda, so I invite the National Assembly to now decide on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. 73 present, 59 for and 4 for. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the Council of State adopted the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Assembly. At 3 p.m. we will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. First, the first four will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mag. Robbery, then ministers and ministers to all the other questions. By 3 p.m., when we continue the meeting, I am also adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u2	I invite all colleagues, the Prime Minister and the Minister and ministers to come to the large debate room. We will continue our 33rd regular session of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. I also welcome the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Ropa, who will receive the first four questions. I'm going to ask for peace in the hall so we can continue the meeting. Dear colleagues, we are at 1. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONTRACTS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 36 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The handling of this point is subject to all the repeated rules and I ask you to take them into account when asking questions and when answering them. First, the four Members will ask the question of mags. Anton Rope, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First colleague Bogdan Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers, ministers! The first question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The fact is that the existence of the independence and power of a nation, of a nation, of a nation, is in the equipment of a relative dependence on independence. In the field of energy resources, where we consider energy sources, which naturally heat us and drive industry, we also consider food among them, and from the conservation of water resources. It is a fact, Mr Prime Minister, that in Slovenia, as in Europe and the world, we face known problems and new challenges. Energy consumption is 75% higher in Slovenia than the average energy consumption in the Member States of the European Union, where Slovenia enters on 1 May. The supply from domestic energy sources is not that high, so in Slovenia we use more expensive, non-competitive and environmentally friendly resources. The fact is that most primary energy, according to recent estimates of more than 50%, is imported, mainly natural gas, liquid fuels for transport and over 60% of fuel for heating. The fact is that excessive energy consumption burdens costs in businesses, institutions and households. Data show that last year, in 2003 we consumed 5% more electricity than in 2002. I think the electricity consumption indicator for 2004 is even greater by 2%. The quality of supply in Slovenia is lagging behind, especially in the case of electricity, as evidenced by the interruptions, which are frequent, fluctuations in tension and disruptions that threaten the delicate functioning of devices. Mr President, I am interested in the fact that, instead of producing enough energy and exporting it on its own, at this market moment at all, energy imports pay high, even high costs for imports. That's why I'm asking: How do you explain the government's conduct so far, which, with the possibilities Slovenia has, I am specifically talking about Zasavje [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He can't or won't take advantage of any of the patents he's given? Why does the government shut down energy? Why does the government support the energy flood at home in the wake of the global energy crisis? Above all, it is important: What is the government's energy supply plan for Slovenia? Why wouldn't Zasavje become an energy valley, specifically, with all the conditions?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u5	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. As regards the government's energy plans and policies, the government has identified its plans in the national energy programme and, of course, you know that the debate on the national energy programme will soon start in the national assembly and will have the opportunity to discuss the details of the policy in this area. You are probably also well aware that in Slovenia, in recent years, we have fully aligned our energy legislation with those in force in the European Union, which, of course, means that we are gradually releasing the market, in particular the electricity market, so that, in relation to the indications you made and related to the export and import of electricity, I would like to say that it holds both, of course, that we have increased electricity imports in the past years, at the same time as exports and that, in the export part where it is concerned, this part of exports due to higher prices realized than the imports of electricity reduces the costs of "de facto" at the national level of electricity imports. I would, of course, like to say that, as a rule, this electricity was cheaper than domestic energy when it was imported, but the data relating to the ratio of prices between exports and imports was essential for export, for example, that the average export price was 58% higher in 2003 and that in 2004 these scissors were actually closing and amounting to around 17%. It is also on a net level because approximately 10% of the electricity required from imports and, as I said, through exports, some of these costs have been compensated. Nevertheless, what you have said is that Slovenia is faced with relatively high electricity consumption and that, of course, it has to do everything to increase its capacity. Let me just mention, for example, that if we compare the total price and the five largest customers, which are very important, even in individual regions, price movements in total consumption are generally about 25, 28% higher than in these largest customers - and, of course, these biggest customers are also a very important part because they are energy-intensive, the whole consumption or the necessary electricity production. By supporting all reflections in this context in the government, and this is also reflected in the national strategy on needed new investments. In this regard, we have also adopted some decisions relating to Savje, in particular those relating to TET 2, in conjunction with the referendum on TET 3. As you know, the decision regarding TET 3 was contrary to what the government has proposed and on the basis of this fact we have adopted a whole set of conclusions, which, on the one hand, we want to invest further in TET 2, ensure the extension of life of TET 2 and its optimal use together with all other facilities in Zasavje. And in this context, we have also supported thinking about the energy valley project. Finally, MEPs Gračner, Švagan and Jerič also requested a special discussion on this topic when considering the energy strategy and the government in principle supports the energy valley project, but we also made it clear that this project will be studied together with other projects that are being prepared in Slovenia. I am already talking about investment projects, the thermal power plants of Šostjanj and, of course, energy shavings. So that in the short term, I think that in March, we will get the expertise, and in the end, of course, we will move forward with these investments, no doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u6	Complementary question, colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. It is right that you have started your answer just by announcing a public presentation of opinions, which will be about the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme, and this very content that I know is a bit of a concern to me because I can understand it in a two-way manner. In fact, the first indent is the most important, claiming that the State no longer invests in energy facilities. Further; they are interested in an energy policy strategy in relation to economic development. Ras that the facts of the TET 3 referendum have changed a lot. Today we talk a lot with a term or expression of renewable energy. It's about cogeneration of burning wood and other waste with coal, it's about trying to build a cleaning plant. These are all elements that can provide this country, this country with energy security and greater security of its independence in the European Council. So I would ask you, even if you can't verbally tell me today that we are working very well in the framework of the Ministry of the Environment and the space with which I have to say, for the time being, answer: What are these options? For all logistics, let transport as a social structure, as a labour force, as the need of this country, speak first and foremost in favour, and I am sure that this can benefit all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u8	Would you like to complete the answer? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much for these additions. I must say that I agree with you in principle, of course, not with the part where you talked about the two-ways of the strategy itself. We are studying very concrete investments, we are aware that investments are needed further, but of course we will move forward, first and foremost with those investments that show that the economic calculations are the most optimal and even the most meaningful. Of course, we will also explore all the other options and try, we are already trying to get additional investors. So these efforts are going precisely in this direction that you were talking about, and I believe that this will also be a discussion that will show very clearly here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The next question to the Prime Minister will be raised by colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "Slovakia without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. The type and scope of these rights shall be determined by law." The Constitution was adopted 13 years ago. The liberal democracy of Slovenia has been in power for 12 years. Where's the law, your esteemed Prime Minister? Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: "The position and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law." What has the government been doing for 13 years that this marriage is still missing? The municipalities themselves solve problems for which they do not have instruments. On the other hand, the government advocates the right of minorities, marginal communities, and has not prepared a law in these 13 years. Buyers of apartments and houses in Trzinska Castle, Zbiljska Gaj and many other similar cases have contracts, stamps of notaries, lawyers and tax administrations to verify their contracts. They pay taxes and taxes from their apartments, and now they are threatened with bankruptcy and the sale of property they paid. Most of these are young families with multiple children, and they are all to blame for not knowing that they are selling their burdened properties, even evicting them. In the latter case, the Trzin Castle found, in addition to that, that the one who sold the encumbered property did not fault the fraud that he was doing the right thing and therefore should be blamed on the situation by the honest people who trusted the institutions of this country and threaten to lose everything. They're supposed to be guilty because they didn't know they were going to cheat them. That's the official answer. At the same time, you want the government to make it possible, on the other hand, to obtain permanent residence and to make claims for damages to thousands of foreigners whom you claim to have not been asked for permanent or temporary residence status because they did not know that they should have at the time of the establishment of the new country. Dear Mr. Rope, where does discrimination make one more valuable than the other? For so-called deleted, you require a second extraordinary session. When will you request a regular meeting and compensation for the fraudulent in Kranjska hrádnica, at the SIB bank, in the affair of Sicura, at the Les bank and many other thefts which the authorities have made possible by loose legislation, which in many cases is still such, by the lack of action of the law enforcement authority or even by the fact that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I want to know: [[...]] When will the government propose measures to stop this from happening? When will she begin to act in such a way that everyone will be in the same hurry?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u12	Mr. Prime Minister. Please at the gallery those who participate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much. First of all, when we talk about equality before the law, I would like to point out that, of course, there is virtually no regulation, there is no law, there is no regulation in which we would not explicitly and specifically take this into account and in which we would not, even in everyday application, seek to actually exercise this right in practice. I agree that there are cases where there are some cases where there can be problems with the implementation of this principle, and it is right that then we all and all institutions should do everything possible to ensure that we can also in practice, in life, apply this principle. Of course, you have not explicitly stated in this question what are the specific cases that you consider to have occurred. If we did, we could, just in case, find out exactly what was going on. It was precisely in the case of the Roma community, which you implicitly, if I have correctly understood, also mentioned, that it was specifically agreed that their case and their situation should be specifically regulated in the field legislation and that this principle should be ensured at the end. Even in the case that you cited and related to apartments, buying apartments, it simply does not hold that we are not trying to do everything to ensure this principle. Last but not least, on the basis of the problems that have taken place in practice, we have prepared a special proposal for a law on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings. Also in order to ensure this, we had already adopted a housing law, and it was precisely because of some comments in the National Assembly that it came into force relatively late, that we were specifically trying to protect the buyers of the apartments and the housing houses, because we were aware and we are aware that this is a particular problem. And in the case of Zbiljska Gaj, the final practical solution was also relatively successful and also positive for those who bought apartments. Even in these cases, which you list and are from the past, the official interpretation of this government is not that nothing is wrong. The official explanation is, of course, that it is necessary to look at specific cases and do everything possible to help these people, if they have been deceived or misled, of course, appropriately. And our readiness in this case, of course, is, so we want to work on two levels, on the one hand systematically, by complementing the system in different areas, and on the other hand with concrete activities that we want to protect this area. Of course, in the end, you made a comparison with the blanks. I would like to point out that, as far as deleted is concerned, we follow the Constitutional Court's decision, and regardless of that, we are also in this system law, even in these additions, which we have prepared explicitly, in order to make it perfectly clear to the general Slovenian public, that only those who have done everything possible to gain status are entitled to compensation from this title, but could not, for example, do so because of the error of the administrative authority or the like. We also know explicitly what's going on with some hands and stuff. So that even in this case, those who have not really done everything necessary will not be able to obtain compensation. On the other hand, it is clear from the Constitutional Court’s decision that the cases were not deleted only because they were not aware of something they had the right to interpret, but because one area had been poorly regulated and therefore could not regulate their rights as the other foreigners did. This, of course, does not affect the scope of the regulations relating to citizenship, but only by permanent residence. So that even in this case it is not as simplistic as in some cases, of course consciously and intentionally, and this area will be by the adoption of system law in the system of course [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the question is, of course, what will follow and how everyone will strive not to deal with it in the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u14	Comrade Janš, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u15	Yeah, look at this law that's supposed to regulate the status of apartment buyers. It's a fine example of how the government is in a hurry, but not elsewhere. Why didn't you propose this law by emergency procedure? Why don't you call an extraordinary meeting for this marriage? Because there are open problems when people are threatened with eviction because they trusted in the institution of the rule of law, they have been cheated. Nor does it argue that the Constitutional Court decision dictates a hurry for the so-called deleted. If that were the case, then in Slovenia, we would not have seven years of the repealed Income Act, seven years of the repealed Income Act, for which parents pay higher income than they should by a Constitutional Court decision, but are paying it because the government has not submitted a law in seven years, and it was abolished in 1997. The one we are talking about now is deleted, and it is only from April of last year. Why are there different criteria here, why are some more valuable than others, and why is it this government elected by the citizens of this country that protects these citizens at least?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u16	Mr Prime Minister, please complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u17	Yes, first of all, I would like to say about the housing law. The Housing Law has not entered into force and this has led to the case of Zbiljski Gaj, and in this case the housing law with those articles which regulate the area to a large extent has already entered into force, so that this area is "de facto" regulated. The proposal for a law on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings also introduces security guards. So that, in fact, these cases that you were talking about if the housing law were in force when they came into existence, they could no longer be. And this marriage is just a step further. Even with income, it doesn't hold what you said. There have been several attempts, as you know, to regulate the income in the work, even in the parts referred to in the Constitutional Court's decision. In particular, we have tried, including Member Pucka, if you remember, but this was rejected at the time as an inappropriate solution and we have therefore decided to put these solutions into the Income Act and now we are fully regulating this area. Why did we rush to or, why do we want an extraordinary session on the subject of deleted persons? I think that at this time when we are talking about the deadlines when we are talking about the referendum, it makes sense for us to have a full discussion of the deleted and then, of course, to carry out the referendum. I only estimate that this topic has been deleted for years on the table and that now is the time to conclude the discussion on it. Finally, on this subject - whether you want to admit it or not - we have made a lot of things clear and have come up with some views quite together. And I think if you and those views are mature, it's only right that we eventually get them out. Of course, there are some areas where, unfortunately, - I am very sorry - we have not come together in full and I do not believe that we will come fully, but they do not essentially affect compensation, the situation of the deleted and the exercise of rights at the end. It is therefore, in my opinion and in my opinion, sensible for us to have a final discussion on this subject, and to carry out all the procedures that are possible in this regard, to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u18	The following question will be raised by a colleague, Dr Andrej Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! One of the most important features of our time is demographic change, which in the case of Slovenia has deteriorated strongly during the time of various coalition governments led by liberal democracy. In Slovenia, there were only 88 thousand 183 children under 5 years of age last year. As early as 1991, there were 118 thousand 179 in this age group. During this period, on average, we had only 17 000 637 children per year, and in the previous decade, we received on average 23 000 636 children per year. Compared to previous times, we lose at least 6,000 children each year. While 75 thousand 531 women were married in the previous census of the population up to 30 years of age, only 32 thousand 156 were married last year. As a result, during your reign the number of newborns decreased by a third. If there were as many children as in the previous decades, there would be 70 000 more Slovenians, which means, among other things, that at that time Slovenia suffered approximately such demographic losses as during the war revolution of the previous century. With increasing concern, we find every day that coalition governments under the leadership of liberal democracy do not show any relationship [[...]] [[Peace.]] In addition to the eccentric contempt for this burning national issue. [[...]] Your deliberate and stubborn disfavor for families is reflected in insistence on a mindless policy of over-inciting single life without children, as it pays more for singleness than for family life from a tax point of view. A family-friendly government policy led by liberal democracy is also reflected in the proposal to amend the Income Act, which the government has put into the procedure and will be dealt with in a short time by this National Assembly. Not only do you insist on this, but you also propose to reduce support for families with many children. With such a policy towards your own people, you are extremely broad-minded in liberal democracy to solve other problems. This is most clearly seen in the still open question of so-called deleted. In so doing, you refer to the Constitutional Court's decision since April of last year and announce how you are in favour of respect for the law and the Constitutional Court. Mr President, duality in approaches is evident. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been treated differently, your government, which in the case of deleted persons, citing the duty to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court, has not implemented a Constitutional Court decision on tax relief for children since 1997. The Constitutional Court found seven years ago that the Income Act was contrary to the Constitution because it provided for the survival of children to reduce the tax base, which did not cover the minimum costs. Your governments have not implemented these provisions, and you have been collecting income from your parents for seven years, including from the part of the income they spent on child support. Why haven't you done this since 1997? Why do you not, in the proposal for the Income Act, which you sent to the legislative procedure, recognise the beneficiaries for whom the Constitutional Court found that you were charging them too much income, the right to charge the overpaid income back for the whole time since 1997? Just like you're proposing for the so-called deleted. So, Mr. President: Why discrimination against the Slovenians? [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u20	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much for that question. Because, of course, it allows an answer to the subject first. It's pure deception, what you've been saying. Reverse. In this system law, we explicitly talk about what will be the limits on compensation. So no automatic compensation will be paid to anyone. In each individual case, the court will decide, and as I have said, the restrictions are of course very large, and mean that virtually, except in very justified cases, no one will be entitled to compensation. On the contrary. The referendum you launched, and this will be demonstrated by practice, this will show the future, will cost these taxpayers significantly more than the compensation you refer to in this case. That's what practice will show. It'll show up relatively quickly. As for family policy, of course, you have also mentioned here quite a number of claims that suggest that you do not know well what has happened in Slovenia in these years you mentioned. If you look at the area of family policy and what has been given for these purposes, then you will see that, since 1999, for example, only in recent years, the amount of expenditure of this country, which, on the basis of a policy led by a coalition that was then and now, has increased significantly and substantially. For example, from 1999 to 2003, from 60 billion to 104 billion on an annual basis. Children’s supplements have increased significantly. If you look at it, you'll see that the funds paid have increased. For example, if we mention only 1999 to 2003, from 35,000 to 55,000. The parental allowance has increased. The parental allowance has increased. I can tell you everything and I can also tell you that there is virtually no benefit from this address, which would not have been consciously, on the basis of the policy we have led together, the entire national assembly, if you want, has substantially increased. Finally, we introduced a large family allowance. And all this data, every single one of us, every one of us is talking about that what you're saying is simply not true and that it's purely misleading. The data's here. I can give it to you later so you can take a look. Even if you look at the income law, which is invested, I hope that I have time, yes, you will see that the simulations show, and these are made for different income classes, that virtually in no way hold what you have claimed, and that up to the average salary, until the average salary will be large families, small families and families with one child getting more relief than before. In fact, 1.5 of the average wage is at the level of 0.25%, virtually the same for four children, and from here on out, there are problems in the fourth child. We are aware of this problem and, of course, we will try again in the discussion, and we have already discussed this in the coalition, this fact in the fourth, fifth and sixth children, and therefore we are open to this discussion. Our wish is and our purpose is to improve the situation of families with children, with one, two, three, four or five, and not make it any worse, and we will also do so in the enforcement of the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u22	Complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, you mentioned all the cases in which certain additives have increased, but you did not mention that this was also introduced because we deleted other additives but you did not talk about it. The debate on amending the Income Act will clearly prove that what you have said does not hold true and that what we claim today has a basis in the specific accounts that you and all members of the government and also Members of Parliament know. That is, a family - oriented society has sent us all their analyses, which are completely consistent with the data available so far. It is true that in fact your income proposal is not favourable to families with more than three children, a slightly above average wage. A change in the way this is calculated, and we will have some more professional debates on this issue, I will clearly show, Mr President, that I know what I am talking about. On the other hand, I will also tell you that you are still using the analyses made by Dr. Jože Stanovnik and Dr. Nada Stropnik, who explained to you and to all of us in one article in Del, that these analyses do not really take into account the total expenditure that parents have, but only some, not long-term. So, Mr President, we are invited to a debate, and what else are we going to have? But the question is: What is your attitude and the attitude of the government you are chairing towards the demographic issue of Slovenia? And I haven't gotten any answers to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you also for this comment you made, which, of course, is not true. In no way have you mentioned subsidies and what is an undeniable fact - everything we have done and all the efforts we have made in the context of priority. As I have assured you, we will take this policy forward. This means that we will provide a relatively large amount of family policy subsidies, as we have done so far. In doing so, we will be one of those countries in Europe that has relatively high subsidies, and we will continue to do so. As far as these other supplements are concerned, which you clearly did not mention, I am counting on you to finally mention them in public discussion - which are these supplements that we have been lowering; I would very much like to see them. And, as I pointed out, in the Income Act, there may be a problem with those who have above-average wages, in the fourth child, in the extreme, in the very high, even in the third. And I am in favour of discussing this and also in these cases ensuring that the situation of children in these families does not deteriorate in any way. Otherwise, we have discussed demographic policy several times in this National Assembly. And when we talk about demographic policy, we need to know that everything is not just in an economic situation. There are analyses and studies on this, and they say that in addition to the economic, economic situation, there is also a very important way of life, perception of life, use of leisure time, equality between both sexes and so on. Last but not least, there is even a government resolution that she has drawn up, and you can look at it and see it. This is, however, a problem that must be discussed and discussed at all times in Slovenia, with arguments, of course, and to find the right solutions for Slovenian demographic policy and, if you will, for our families, especially for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u26	Excuse me? Procedural proposal? Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The demographic issue of Slovenia is so important that I must suggest that we have a public debate on this matter. I am well aware, Mr Prime Minister, that money is not everything, as the Italians say, but it calms the nerves a little bit, but the fact is that we see in all your proposals a lack of awareness of this problem and that you are not really prepared to propose anything smart, and we see this in the proposals for tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We will decide tomorrow when we move to decisions on agenda items to include the last afternoon's debate. The last, fourth question will be raised by colleague Valentin Pohorec to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u29	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! We are less than a hundred days apart from the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. At this meeting, the National Assembly will, inter alia, consider and adopt a proposal for a law on the ratification of the treaty between the fifteen current members and the ten candidates, including Slovenia, a final act for our country of importance. Thus, as of 1 May 2004, a new period is beginning for the Republic of Slovenia, for which we have successfully prepared and carried out all the tasks and tests. The event of entry into the European Union should be marked appropriately. In some border areas, various activities are already taking place, including across the national border, or we are being invited by our neighbours in border areas to meetings to mark this important event for Slovenia, including the neighbouring Member of the European Union, I think of Austria and Italy, neighbouring Hungary as a candidate, not least the neighbouring Croatia, where the Schengen border will move. As a member of the border area, I was invited to several meetings of the local community, including Austria, where we discussed how to record Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Of course, I was asked everywhere what kind of program our country or government has in this regard. Where, for example, a central event will be held, for one country or another, how the government will help local communities with the programme, funds, participation of government members and other important persons at these meetings. Since I do not know the answer to such a question, I ask you, Mr President: Does the government already have a programme of events or celebrations when it enters the European Union? Will the government participate in organising and financing these events at least in important places, this being at international border crossings? Will we and how will Members be familiar with the government's programme? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you very much, colleague Pohorec. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question. I certainly agree with you that the marking of Slovenia's entry into the European Union is of course very important. And in this context, the government has appointed a special working group in which representatives of various ministries are preparing exactly what you are asking. In this regard, a consultation was also held with virtually all mayors in Slovenia and they were asked what events they were preparing at different ends of Slovenia. The interest is very great and therefore the concept of a decentralised event was adopted, after which, at different ends in Slovenia, such events were to take place in different places. There are some places that will be taken into account: Nova Gorica, Gornja Radgona, Hodoš and Ljubljana are the places where such celebrations would take place and events. Along with, of course, both trombones and Kranjska Gora, Kuzma and Bovec would participate. In short, this concept is now being prepared, it is being negotiated, of course, even in the context of what you have been asking, the government's involvement in this. In particular, it also depends on the participation of representatives from other countries in Slovenia. There is a pretty high chance that some of the European Union's high representatives and some neighbouring countries will participate in these events, and we will, depending on that, and will also need to adapt the programme at the end. So far, we don't have a hundred percent written confirmation. The moment they arrive, it will also be possible to say exactly when and who will participate in a celebration and, of course, a complete financial structure. Of course, it would be very nice and good if, for example, the President of the European Commission came to Slovenia at such an event. We are trying to come; if he comes, I think it will be a real event for the President to come to Slovenia when we enter the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u32	Okay, thank you very much, Mr Prime Minister, for the answers to the first four questions raised to you. We will now proceed with questions from ministers and ministers. Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. The digger owes two answers to the questions raised at the previous 32nd meeting of the congregation. First on the question of the problem of the construction of the motorway section by Radovljica and then mag. Visionary on the issue of consent for the extension of production at Vipap Videm Krško. Does anything need to be added to the questions raised? Minister Digger knows them. Can he answer them? Please. First, on the question of the problem of the construction of the motorway section by Radovljica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u34	Microphony's got all the microphones off? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As early as autumn 2002, the municipality of Radovljica was offered a semi-deep route as a compromise option, but was then rejected by the congregation. Last June 2003, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and the Ministry of Transport prepared a position on comments from the public decommissioning of the State site plan. We introduced the municipality of Radovljica and it was decided that the location plan would continue with the uninterrupted route of the motorway. On 29 September, the municipality of Radovljica then addressed these positions, insisting on an in-depth version of the highway route. Then, last November, the government, on my proposal and at the proposal of a colleague of the President, adopted information on the progress of the preparation of the site plan. It found that the decision to draw up a proposal for a non-integrated variant was duly justified, however, it took note of the comments of the Municipality of Radovljica and commissioned both the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and the Ministry of Transport, as well as Dars, to check the requirements of the municipal council of Radovljica before continuing the preparation of the proposal for a local plan and to take into account the environmental, spatial, transport and investment evidence of acceptableness in the preparation of the proposed site plan. The current phase is such that Dars has provided a solution to the partially-integrated undercarriage route. The solution was forwarded by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy to the peer review of the group of independent experts. The Ministry of Transport must also be defined before a solution is reached, and after obtaining all views and opinions, a final proposal will be drawn up for a multi-annual course of the motorway, which will, of course, also be made known to the Municipality of Radovljica, and when the regulation is adopted, clearly, the government. So that the works are in progress and I hope that in a relatively short time this Gordija knot can be completely cut off through the highway across Gorenjska, I hope that in common satisfaction both the Municipality of Radovljica and the government and, of course, Darsa as an investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u36	Complementary question, colleague of the grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, I am pleased that there is a slow solution or compromise between the demands of the local community and the two competent ministries, which has been a global goal, but of course there are still a number of open issues. And according to an idea plan that Dars had forwarded just before the end of 23.12., these movements were already scheduled. Of course, I would like to take this opportunity and perhaps add some elements that would be necessary, but I will say, in this global solution to this problem. According to the year, the planned year of construction of the highway, I think it is necessary to consider: Does it make sense to insist on a toll station that collects tolls in such a form? I am not speaking against the collection of the toll, but because, according to some information, it is expected that a closed system will then be available, so that it can be said now in 2007/2008, whether the system will be closed or not, and we will also avoid it, I will say, an intervention into the space, because the toll station is a major intervention into the space. Another such very important, life-important solution for citizens is to also settle the old road Crnivec-Kranj and I will say here, allow the free passage of citizens to Kranj without paying the toll or to those places where even for a few kilometers, it is said in this non-closed system to pay the toll unjustifiably and there could be a division of citizens into two parts if we look from justice. And, of course, I'm also interested in: How is it that despite the adoption of the location plan regulation, the Ljubno tunnel has three lanes, and now only two are planned [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That would be somehow, if there was any answer, because I know you're not the only one responsible, is also the Minister of Transport, and I thank you for the answer. [[...]] [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. This is really more of a question for my colleague, Minister of Transport. However, as regards the toll station and the closed toll system, let us say that, of course, the location plan, which I think must contain solutions that are feasible with the existing technology. However, as long as the construction phase of the motorway itself will change, or the system will change, then, of course, regardless of the location plan adopted, it may not approach the construction of that part of the infrastructure or this auxiliary, accompanying facility on the motorway itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Environment Minister, asked you a question at the previous meeting also by a fellow Master Vizjak. Will you repeat the contents? Please, just for a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. As you know, in 2000 an eco-saniment programme for VIPAP Videm Krško is approved, after which VIPAP is exempt from payment of an eco-tax if it invests in the implementation of the ecological rehabilitation of the factory. What has actually happened is that this year, an investment programme was completed, after which they opened a whole set of ecological updates in this factory, a cleaning plant, a reconstruction of the bleaching plant, a processing plant or a waste paper processing plant and so on. A review of ecological taxes in other countries with production cellulose has found that the tax is not in Scandinavian countries that are the largest producers of cellulose. Nor is the taxi in Austria, our neighbours, but with us the ecological taxes collected by the country significantly hold the final product, that is cellulose, and put us in an unequal position on the European and global market. VIPAP Videm Krško asked the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy to extend the production of cellulose until October 2007 mainly due to the problem of the loss of more jobs. The extension of the production of cellulose in Krk for several years in order to ensure other, new jobs at that time, including the re-determining of environmental recovery obligations and the regulation of certain emissions, would, in the view of both companies and local communities, be a solution that would have at least negative social and economic consequences for Posavia, as it is clear that the abolition of cellulose production would endanger or question about 400 jobs in Posavia, which, of course, combats over-average unemployment in Slovenia. I therefore ask the Minister: Does the Ministry of Environment and Space - and of course the State - have a real interest in solving or helping to solve this problem and listening to the producer of cellulose due to major problems of unemployment, job shortages in Posav? In fact, the production of cellulose also solves some other problems in Slovenia - where there is more quality wood. Does the State have an interest in extending the production of cellulose in the VIPAP Videm Krško factory for the next few years? At that time, we should create suitable jobs and redistribute workers. So: Will the country advocate for such important strategic production in Slovenia and thus finally mitigate the social and other consequences of the termination of this production?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Both the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and, of course, the Government are in favour of solving this problem, but of course only within the framework permitted by the European acquis. For we must be aware that we will be full members of the European Union on 1 May this year. The Ministry also explained to VIPAP Videm Krško how it is possible to extend the production of cellulose. The key elements are: the exemption of the water burden tax must be confirmed, not here in Ljubljana or in the government, but by the services of the European Union Commission which are responsible for State aid. The water charging fee cannot be completely forgiven, part of it is not specifically stated in the directive, but it says, an important part - from some of the experiences of other countries we see that this is 20%. So, part of this tax, 20% at least, should still be allocated to the state budget, although we would like to see that maybe nothing, but the European Union State Aid Commission would not allow us to do this in a known practice so far. The entire recovery programme should be checked by the relevant European Union Commission service, not enough that it is just us in Ljubljana, but should be confirmed in Brussels. However, the burden on the environment should not be a violation of other harmonised European Union standards in the field of environmental protection - but there is, I think, a major problem. VIPAP should apply for all of this with the appropriate role to be given to me in Brussels, but VIPAP has decided not to submit these requests for exemption of the fee under the procedure to be followed by the duty of the State upon entry into the European Union. In short, we do not have such applications from VIPAP Videm Krško to continue the production of cellulose, so of course we do not have to decide or mediate anything in Brussels. In the letter we received from the Ministry, the company explained its step with the following facts. VIPAP does not intend to rehabilitate cellulose production facilities because their business policy is not focused on such production. VIPAP does not intend to invest its resources in order to extend the operation of cellulose either to pay a reduction in the tax or to invest further in environmental recovery at the location of the pulp and paper factory. VIPAP is aware that it overburdens the environment with sulphur emissions and is not prepared to assume compensation or other obligations due to excessive burden at the time of the extension of the operation of Cellulose. In short, the problem is not only the release of waste water into the Savoy, but also the release of sulphur into the air because it has nothing to do with the tax on wastewater. This is also the last element in this letter from VIPAP. The anticipated developments in the paper and cellulose market currently do not give VIPAP any financial opportunity for additional investments that could allow the operation of Cellulose to be extended. From your question, it may be suggested that the environmental taxes collected by the country significantly irritate the final product and put us in an unequal position on the European market - you talked about non-competitiveness. I have to explain that this is a misleading thought and that the amount of ecological taxes is less than or equal to the costs that would be incurred by the burden-bearer if it were to clean up the waste water, because cleaning costs as well, and if it does not have this process built in, then a tax is charged and it is equivalent. If waste water from Cellulose were not contaminated, in general, even the payment of the tax would not infuse the final product at all. It should be noted, however, that in the case of VIPAP, it is an outdated technology which should not operate anywhere in the European Union because of the lack of environmental standards, unless it is granted exemption from environmental duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u44	Mag. Vizjak, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Of course, if the distinguished Minister were to be on the day of the open doors of the VIPAP Videm Krško factory, he would be able to get to know many, including some ten million cartridges on his own. [[I speak in euro]] This company is estimated at EUR 6.3 million in investment in the ecological rehabilitation of the factory and also in the investments in the cleaning plant launched in March last year. It is only one of the ecological rehabilitations that we do not talk about others. So last year and the past period, companies invested tremendously in ecological recovery. Here, however, it was presented by the Minister as if they were not prepared to invest anything. It is true, however, that it is not a matter of maintaining the production of cellulose as it is now, but of extending its operation until 2007, of a transitional period in which many problems could be solved, of job losses that will severely affect Posavje, the Municipality of Krško, Brežice and Sevnica. It is therefore a matter of solving the problem, which must not be contrary to the European Community's ecological standards. That is why I am also asking the Minister: Is there anything in the association agreement between Slovenia and the European Community that prevents the issue of a decision or this extension agreement? Is there a possible commitment to respect the IPPC Directive before the end of 2007? For this is a directive which speaks of these conditions regarding the burden of the environment. In short, I want to know: Have we perhaps committed more than we needed to to in the association negotiations, and is this now a problem for us when we decide or cannot decide for the benefit of such applications as has been made by the VIPA?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u47	The IPPC Directive or the Directive on comprehensive prevention and control of releases shall enter into force for different companies in Slovenia in different years. Well, for VIPAP Videm Krška only October 2007, which is the deadline that we could negotiate in the Association Agreement. Thus, this Directive does not constitute any obstacle to the operation of the VIPAP by this period. However, the fact is that it is not only this directive that applies in Slovenia, but also the State Aid Directive, which I explained earlier. This is effective on 1 May of this year and should also be respected before 2007. Once again: VIPAP Videm Krško is a company that invests enormously in environmental recovery, but not in the production of cellulose, which is what this is about in this particular case. The company produces many things, not just cellulose. And it did not come from this company, and on the basis of their letter I understand, there will also be no role to continue this production of cellulose under conditions which, of course, the State must respect from May 1st this year. So if they don't want to do this, of course we can't do that either by our decision or by any stimulation or anything else. We express our full readiness to implement this procedure in Brussels, but if there is no role from the company, of course we have nothing to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. These were questions from the 32nd regular meeting of the National Assembly. And now the questions that have come to this session are following. Firstly, Maria Possonec has a question, if I understand correctly, one question addressed to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister for the Environment, Space, Energy and the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all present. With regard to the events in Upper Lakosh, I would like to ask you some questions. I ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Council of Bohinca: Have the police overstepped their powers to deal with this event? On television, it was possible to see the police tearing people up, as well as filming them unannounced. I also wonder: Was it really necessary for citizens to pass a sentence of over 400,000 tolars? Is this a way to stifle people’s protests when they are the only ones protecting their home, health, and safety? Minister for Environment and Space and Energy, Mag. Janez Kopach, I'd like to ask: Is it really not possible to accelerate the snail of the slow administration in the process of making plans for the highway? Do you really need almost a decade to begin construction? In particular: When will you prepare plans for motorways to the Hungarian border? And Minister of Transport, Jakob Presečnik, who is not here, I would like to point out: There is no way to keep ever-growing freight traffic in densely populated Premur villages. Otherwise, he doesn't admit that traffic is always bigger. What has he done so far, and what does he intend to do to accelerate the construction of the highway to the Hungarian border? Does he realize that the slow construction of this highway puts people, the economy, and the fifth corridor at risk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Now I would like to give the floor first to Minister Rad Bohinc and try to share the time with Minister Copac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this question. On this occasion in Lakosh, I ordered a report from the police, which informed me of the following. 22.11. last year there was a protest road closure in the area of the local community of Gornji Lakoš. Some 40 citizens crossed the road or occupied it in such a way that it hindered or prevented traffic along the road. Therefore, it was necessary to switch cargo vehicles to other border crossings. In doing so, citizens failed to take into account the police’s demands or signs given by police officers under road traffic regulations, according to police assurances or the report. There has been a violation of road traffic rules, for which police have imposed 13 terms of reference. In addition, elements of the infringement of the rules of the law on public assembly have arisen. This is because the protest meeting had elements of public gatherings, without respect for such regulations regarding public gatherings or public meetings. The report prepared by the police does not imply that police officers would in any way violate the rules or rules of the police profession or overstep their powers. Nor does it appear that any other regulations on the part of police officers would be violated. The more reason for this finding is that there were no complaints against the work of the police in this case. However, there are several complaints at the time of the term of office that will be resolved in accordance with the rules of the appeal procedure. That's all I can talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you. And a word to Minister Janez Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. As you know, honourable Member, the key reason for the late adoption of the road map for the Beltinian motorway to the Hungarian border is the long search for the appropriate variant of the motorway passing through Turnišč. This problem has been dealt with for two, three years. Well, last year, in the fall, as you probably know, the decision was also made, so now the location plan is in preparation. I am counting on it to be adopted as soon as possible, but I am afraid that this is simply not feasible because of the deadlines for the admission procedure this year. As soon as it is adopted, then it will also be possible to draw up project documentation and issue a building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The third minister is not here. The answer will follow in writing, as we say in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, you still have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Just one question: What does the word "quick"?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u56	Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u57	The national location plan, with the start of work last fall, when this decision on the passage of routes past Turnišča was taken, then requires the preparation of about 15, 16 months. These are the hands and can't be rushed according to legal procedures. So this means adopting a location plan in, hopefully, the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an oral question that will be raised by Master Andrej Vizjak to the Minister of Transport, who is also not here. You still want to ask me a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u59	I'm sorry. Yeah, of course I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u61	Look, I've been asking someone who isn't here many times, and this is a very distasteful feeling for a Member who announces a question one month earlier, expects an answer, of course, and then there's no minister here, but it's the pressing problems that concern our people. And it is only right that I ask this question, but I hope that I will also expect the answer. On the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia operators also use parts of state roads, where construction materials are transported and these state roads are also destroyed due to heavy loads. In Brežice, we have a case like this when they drive construction material to the construction site, sand almost 15 kilometers away along state roads, along a regional road. Under the Location Plan Regulation and under the implementing contracts, operators should also, once part of the road has been completed, fix or establish them in the original state of the road. In this particular case, it is said, specifically in our congregation, that I know that the repair of such a road, which these operators, of course, destroy in a 15km length, will actually cost this contractor very much. Since I have already tried to obtain appropriate answers from the authorities at the Ministry of Transport, but in vain, I am interested in: In what way will the Minister responsible for transport or the Ministry of Transport, and thus the State, as owner and manager of these state roads, achieve and ensure that the operators, after the completion of the works, actually rehabilitate the state roads and put conditions in place for them prior to construction? For we have these state roads recorded, the initial situation has been established, the situation after half of construction is such that these roads on some sections are actually non-transportable, the contractor does nothing, practically people are transported on these dangerous roads to work and elsewhere. That's why I'm finally interested in: What measures does the State take in such a case? How will it actually ensure that operators also fulfil their obligations under the Treaties and, of course, in accordance with the Regulation? Since the Minister is not here today, I expect his oral answer, so I will repeat that question at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much. So, at the next oral session, the answer to this question. My colleague Majda Zupan has a question for the Minister of Health, who is also missing. You want to set him up anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would like to address the question to the Minister of Health. Our recognized flutist Irena Grafenauer, who has asked for help after receiving the highest national award, has made a great and commendable gesture for other patients as well. As commendable as she had the courage, the saddest thing is that our register of bone marrow donors for non-coordinate transplants is very modest. Only a few hundred people were tested for the initiative, and although it offers the possibility of an international register of 9 million donors, it is difficult to find an appropriate donor. Slovenians and Slovenians responded in a mass way, thus demonstrating humanity and solidarity. The government is expected to devote up to 10 million tolars to carry out public blood tests. It is notable that very little was known and spoken about all this in the general public before the initiative, but also that the official institutions were not organisationally prepared for such a response, so the first days among donors were quite a few criticisms and indignations. Even with regard to the price for blood tests, there were different interpretations. First, there were thousands of euros, then 600, last of all 300, although abroad it cost only 50 euros. It is commendable, however, that in health care, although it is late for a number of patients, I hope it is not too late. Nevertheless, one wonders where you have been before, since you should have done so much earlier. The program of non-corrosive bone marrow transplantation has only been carried out with us since 2002 and the tissue tipping center is the only laboratory in our country that conducts all the tests necessary for the smooth conduct of all organ transplants. We do know, however, that in the world, they have been treated for more than 30 years and carry out thousands of bone marrow transplants every year in specialised centres. I would like to ask the distinguished Minister of Health the following question: Why aren't these things system-wide with us? Is it possible to count on the systemic inflow of a health insurance company? And if not: Will the Minister propose to amend the rules, perhaps even the legislation governing this area? I would like Mr Minister to respond orally next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Majda Potrat to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. You're looking for a friend of mine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u66	Excuse me! I called my colleague Potrato, but since it's your turn, I give you my word for the same minister's question. My colleague is not, and that's all I had to find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u67	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u68	You have the floor. I just had to find out she wasn't there. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the honourable Minister Gabr a question. In the school centre, the professional guest and forestry school in Slovenj Gradec educates students in forestry and guest programmes, but does not implement the educational programme of tourism techniques as implemented by other guest schools in Slovenia as part of their programme. For three years, the said educational institution has been carrying out activities for the introduction of the "tourist technique" programme. The intention is supported by both economists and politicians. Despite numerous requests addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, no reply has been received to this day on the approval of the project. The introduction of the tourism technology programme is necessary as Koroška in the field of tourism is one of the less developed regions. Tourism as an economic sector is one of the strategic directions of our country when it enters the European Union. Such guidelines will not be able to compete with the Corro region without a well-trained and educated staff in this area. I ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport: When do they intend to deal with their request or approve the introduction of a tourism technology programme at the Ministry? I also ask the Minister: Are not the accessibility of education systems and the high level of educational structure of the Slovenian population the primary tasks of our department, given that the Ministry of Education has also participated as a main partner in the preparation of a single programming document of the Republic of Slovenia, which also includes investment in knowledge, development of human resources, employment, creation of quality jobs, etc. - what does the Carinthia region urgently need? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, do you have an answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u71	Mr President, honourable Member. You will probably be delighted to know that on Friday, when an invitation to enroll in the secondary school of the Republic of Slovenia will be issued, there will also be 32 seats signed for the programme you have just spoken about. This has been informed by both the school and the mayor, who is currently coordinating, I think, regional coordination in Koroška. That'll probably be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u72	Completing the question. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u73	I would like to thank the Minister, but I have not yet reached this data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the professional public reminds us that there is already more than 400 megawatts of new electricity production capacity in Slovenia and it will be necessary to shut down 300 megawatts of production power by 2015. Since we cannot significantly increase our production power in the next four years, we will be forced to import electricity in particular and will have to import 2,500 gigawatts this year. If we have managed to provide satisfactory electricity supply in Slovenia last year, we cannot claim this for the coming years, so the scenarios of electric eclipses that happened last year in America, Italy, in Slovenia are becoming more and more likely. The most important reason for this is the significant increase in electricity consumption over the last four years. The planned 2% annual growth in 2001 increased to 7% and 6% in 2002 and 5% in 2003. The unexpected high growth in electricity consumption has surprised many people, especially those responsible at the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, because in all these years you have not found effective answers to how to curb growth at least the planned 2% level. Thus, Slovenia is becoming increasingly dependent on the export of electricity from abroad, while it was a net exporter until last year. In the countries of the European Union and its associated Member States, as well as in other neighbouring countries, there are no electricity surpluses, even more so, there will be a need to build 300 000 megawatts of new energy capacity in the EU to supply electricity smoothly by 2020. Due to the inefficient real energy needs for Slovenia, despite individual smaller projects, we will not build the necessary production potential. Furthermore, the provision of new alternative electricity, such as solar energy, wind power plants or biomass plants, does not advance to this extent, so that they can at least rely on a medium term on the serious production of electricity based on the use of renewable sources, which also has a beneficial impact on greenhouse gas emissions reductions in the atmosphere in addition to higher production capacities. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Are you also allowing an apparently stepmother's policy to provide the necessary energy capacity and artificially curbing the rise in electricity prices in order to make it easier for the Slovenian public to convince the need to extend the operation of a nuclear power plant in Krk [[at least until 2040]] Or even the construction of the second block, which has recently been committed to by Croats and which we strongly oppose in the Party of Young Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This latter, with regard to the Krška nuclear power plant, the government does not have any plans for the extension of operation after 2023, nor for the construction of a possible second block, and no such definition will be found in any document, only in the national energy programme does it say that once, probably around 2013, it will be necessary to consider whether then existing technology will allow possible extension. But, of course, it's a matter of study and decision in ten years, not today. However, as regards trends in electricity production and consumption, it is part of the data you provided, accurate and not part of it. But the fact is that in Slovenia we urgently need new production capacities for electricity production and that, as already stated in the opening question or the answer to the introductory question by President Ropa, the government is actively considering the new investment cycle. In doing so, let me mention that Holding of Slovenian Power Plants has been tasked with preparing investment programmes by March of this year in order to decide on the appropriateness of individual investments at the various locations held by the holding companies. The same investment programme is being prepared by Thermoelectric Trbovlje 2. In addition, Eles has already prepared the construction, the contract has been concluded for the construction of a 400 kilovolt high-voltage power grid in Hungary, as we are not yet connected with Hungary, and this is a unique case within Europe that the two Member States are not connected to a high-voltage cable. And we're making a whole bunch of other investments. One important thing, for example, is the new divisional transformer station in Divaca, which will be open this year. In short, it is not the case that we do not make the necessary investments intensively. It is true, however, that some 10 years had passed since the severe decline in electricity prices immediately after the independence or already in 1990 caused a terrible drop in investment assets, which, of course, we will not be able to make up for for for much longer. However, we are aware of trends and respond to them with appropriate preparations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Completing the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u79	In the Party of Young Slovenia, we point out that the key reason for the so jumpy increase in electricity consumption in Slovenia is primarily the artificial capping of electricity prices, which the government has consistently served in recent years. Thus, on the one hand, it does not provide new resources, and on the other hand, the energy-consuming industry, such as the Kidrichev Aluminium Factory, which buys electricity even cheaper than citizens, is developing cheap electricity. In Austria, for example, only last year’s electricity was irritable by as much as 30%. So the government builds low inflation on the back of cheap electricity, limits the price of nepotism and at the same time does not give up the return on the state equity share of the capital in the electricity companies of which it is the majority owner. The excuses for inflation and reducing competitiveness are extremely convenient in the government, but it puts them on the back of its head when it drains the profits of electricity companies into the integrated budget, while it does not provide the necessary investment in increasing production capacity on the budget’s spending side. I therefore ask you again for a very specific position. Do you plan to operate a nuclear plant at the Ministry after 2023? What is the position of the Ministry regarding the construction of the second block of the nuclear power plant in Krk? And above all: What measures are you preparing to reduce at least consumption in the event of an obvious electricity crisis if you are not already providing new electricity production capacity to the extent necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u80	Please, Minister, you have time to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u81	I've already answered your question about the nuke. I hope I've been understanding enough. As for the numbers you cited and the statement, I must say that if you followed them as a suggestion, then I think you would really have an energy crisis in Slovenia. You said why the government doesn't charge electricity for 30%, just like it did on the Alaskan stock exchange, for example. We could actually do that this year. On this basis, Holding Slovenian Power Plants would have great profits, and our industry would, of course, have begun to fall through the current lane. Some energy policy protagonists who also advise and engage in these debates - I see this through the amendments you have tabled in the national energy programme - would like to close the Talum. The government is not for closing the Talum. We are running an energy policy by trying to adapt to the current state. We can't change it in a way that we can shut down three iron stations, and Talum, and the Nitrogen Plant Ruše, and then the electricity will be too much. And then there'll be no more problems. That's not the answer to the problems I understand from your suggestion. And that is why, of course, we tame or restrain electricity prices, as far as we can do so. This is to ensure that electricity production has prices that cover production costs and some other profitability due to the investment needs that the holding company has, starting with a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava, and to frame price movements within the inflation objectives that the government has set itself. And of course by not destroying the Slovenian industry as electricity consumers. However, as regards measures to reduce electricity consumption, I must say that even with the drastic increase in household electricity prices, household electricity prices would not significantly reduce consumption. But in industry, of course, it would be in a way that the industry would no longer be bankrupt. But that's not our goal. And that is why, of course, we are working on various promotional actions in electricity saving, which, of course, now I do not have time to explain to you long and wide, because this time is limiting me. The fact is, of course, we are trying to lead a balanced energy policy, where our main objective is that electricity is even available, that supply is stable and that, of course, price fluctuations are not such as to endanger anyone in its existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. The next one has a word for the question, and I do not have an apology for the Minister of Justice, Comrade Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If a coalition member asks the Minister a question, it is with some intention and my intention would be to "complicate", it is the intention to push the Minister in some way to ensure the enforcement of laws through personal engagement. It's a violation law. However, neither here nor here is the Minister of State nor of the Secretary of State, and of course others present, I cannot expect this effect, so today I will give up the issue. However, as chairman, I ask you to try to ensure the dignity of this national council by also bringing the ministers here. The Minister himself, I know he's away, but there are still a few secretaries of state and similar gentlemen who should answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u84	Comrade Lavrinc, State secretaries may not participate in this agenda item and may not give any answers. These must be ministers or ministers or Prime Minister and Prime Minister-General. I have no excuse for the absence of the Minister of Justice. Maybe I missed him. If that's the case, I'll take that into account. My friend, Dr. Brace is going to ask the Secretary-General a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Liberal democracy has had a decisive impact in the last decade on the legal order of its content and form. Formally, everything looks fine, we have some kind of legal arrangement, but it is in the state administration that things are going on that are in violation of the rule of law. It is said that the government, which is the holder of the legislative initiative and the Parliament, which then forms this initiative into a law, somehow do not ensure that the legal security of citizens is as it should be: especially if it is a violation of laws by the government, by the ministries. Here I am referring to the illegal discharge of 13 senior administrative workers in the time of the Drnovskov government in 2000, or this is the solution that is so current in these days, because these people have been reassigned to lower-value jobs, illegally redeployed, some have even been out of work, and all of these 13 have been given the Supreme Court to the right, so administrative and then vice versa. These thirteen people have in their hands the Supreme Court ruling that the decision of the Drnovskov government was inadequate and therefore to leave, it practically means that they can return to their former jobs. Another example of illegal conduct is the case of Peter Golob, the former third secretary and vice-consul in Zagreb, who did not wish to issue visas to applicants from Macedonia and Bosnia because it was contrary to the rules and his superiors insisted on doing something contrary to the regulation. When he asked to be given this in writing, of course they did not do so, then he pointed out the suspicion of concluding a fictitious lease on residence in Zagreb, the residence of the Republic of Slovenia in Zagreb - as we know - he was then an ambassador of the Liberal Democracy, Mr. Boštjan Kovacič. The pigeon therefore refused to carry out the illegal request of the chairman, warned of the crime and was therefore dismissed. In both cases, the government acted unlawfully. That's why I'm asking: How and when will the government implement the Supreme Court decision in the case of these 13 persons? And secondly, what will the government do in the case of the Pigeon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u86	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you so much for asking. Well, first of all, I would say that the ruling of the Supreme Court is that, unlike you, who do not recognise any more decisions, at least some in this country will respect, although of course we might be able to question these decisions. In the end, it is not the Supreme Court or even the judicial authorities that have not yet embarked on such discharges in the light of the reasons for their appointment, since the fact is that in all thirteen cases it was illegal to appoint, to appoint without conditions, without invitations, without work time and even without documentation. However, as it is said - and we will not go down at this time in the fact that, as before, Mr Janša may have asked about equality before the law, why the Supreme Court may in some cases decide more quickly, and some of the years do not come in turn - but for us the Supreme Court ruling is enforceable and, of course, we will respect it. Personally, I think that there are relatively few cases of administrative workers or employees in the public administration who are facing infringements of labour rights. We have more than 30,000 employees in the state administration, and there are very few judicial proceedings concerning the rights of these people. So I think that, either to a mass breach or to a mass breach, I would say that it might be argued that the protection of employees in the public administration is poor or that they do not have the appropriate instruments to protect their rights, that such a claim would, of course, not only be excessive, but also completely unrealistic. The previous system, prior to the implementation of the Law on Public Servants, has in fact set up two mechanisms to ensure this protection. In one way or another, in relation to the administrative status and associated rights to pay, leave and all those credits arising from the law and collective agreement, in respect of the appointment of titles, in respect of decisions issued in the administrative procedure and on the other. In addition to the procedure within the body, of course, the previous law also provided for labour protection against labour and social courts. The new legislation has further strengthened this protection here, particularly by stepping up or, I would say, adding another instance of decision-making within the administration itself. And it also preserved all the instruments that these people had at their disposal so far. I don't know specific cases exactly, especially I don't know anything in the case of Peter Golobe. However, I can ensure that the Government or the Ministry of Justice will certainly respect the decisions of the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u89	Should I first conclude that the Secretary-General has not answered the question. I specifically said: How and when? And that the Secretary-General has not yet been able to look at what is written in these decisions, in the ruling of the Supreme Court. This is evidence of what ignorance exists in the government when it comes to the enforcement of decisions or judgments of the courts, in which case the Supreme Court. Even in the case of the Golob case, the Secretary-General is aware of this. I know he's familiar. But this is where he hit us with a whole bunch of flossules, but he didn't answer the essential question: How does the government imagine doing that? And, of course, Mr President, I am surprised to see that the tone used by the Secretary-General allows people who answer Members' questions. It is rude for me not to say uncivilized, to say that I do not comply with the rulings of the Supreme Court or that - "you" said to me. That's, again, public defamation. I'm not in the government, I'm in the opposition. But when I was Minister of Labour, I did exactly what I did by law and what was subsequently found. That's not the way it burdens me. But it bothers me that this stage or this booth here is being used this way. And, please, I have asked a very concrete question and I expect a very concrete answer. If you are not able to give it today, then I demand a written answer, especially because I asked you to answer me: Not only how, but when will the government do it? I ask for an answer to this question within a reasonable time if you are not able to give it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u90	Would you like to complete the answer? Please, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm not going to apologize for the tone, because I think it's the same on the other side. And after all, even though I am a guest in the National Assembly, I also have some rights and I can answer in the way that the question is raised. I would say, however, that I am neither an address nor a government address that could give a clear answer to such a question, which is not even explicit. The government doesn't decide on these things. And if you think I haven't read the Supreme Court ruling, I can quote it to you, and you can tell me if you know how and what the government needs to do. The Court held: "The appeal shall be rejected and the judgment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 26.3.2003 shall be confirmed." It's all done, the government doesn't have to do anything about it anymore. Also, I don't know if you're drawing me by the word, for the language, Mr Brejc, I can list what you did and how you did when you were Minister of Labour, and how many illegal decisions you issued, and at this point I won't go into it because I don't think it's necessary. In short, you are asking something that I cannot give you an answer to and that no answer is needed because the decision is enforceable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivan Mamić will ask the Minister of Transport. However, today he apologized for his obligations abroad. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! My question is addressed to the Minister of Transport. If no one will give me an answer today, please, if you could have it in writing within the appropriate time frame. It reads as follows: Why is the fast road Razdrto-Vrtojba, which is built so far, not marked the same across the whole length: in green or blue? In fact, from Vipava to Sel, approximately 22 kilometers long, there are signs of information in blue and from Sela to Vrtojbe in green, although it is the same category of road. The question is, in my opinion, legal and not technical, it is said to be inadvertent. If the answer is a different category of sections mentioned, then the toll should be at least 70% lower, it is said, instead of 330 only 100 tolars. However, if my conclusion is correct, I ask that the competent authority, for reasons of consistency as short as possible, place the labels in green instead of in blue. Or tell them that the markings must remain a trap for those drivers who do not reduce the speed of the vehicle when they arrive from green to blue zone. I used the word "trap" because people who use this road section complain that they've already paid a fine on the blue side of a fast road because they haven't adapted to red tape on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u94	This question will be referred to the Minister, who will also have to answer orally at the next meeting. My friend Mamić, do you agree with that? Okay. Mr Fabjan will ask questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u95	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mag. France Booth. In short, Mr Minister, in recent years you have been preparing a rural development plan at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for quite some time, which is somehow also integrated into a single programming document. And the fact is, you learned programming during the Sapard pre-accession period. That is why, in particular, we have also established an agency for agricultural markets and rural development to implement the common agricultural policy measures and thus draw on the European Union's resources. The government is certainly aware of the importance of the operation and of the professional leadership of the agency itself, but I ask you, Minister-respected, the following questions: Is the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development ready to implement the measures of the common agricultural policy and thus to draw on the European budget? Secondly: Are there critical points or unregulated areas in the implementation of the common agricultural policy measures which may pose some kind of risk of recovery from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u96	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Members, for your question. It may not be known in Slovenia that the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is the only institution in the Republic of Slovenia to be accredited until the entry of the European Union or in general the only institution to be accredited to join the European Union - both in Slovenia and in any other Member State. In fact, all policies such as structural, cohesion, etc. do not require accredited paying agencies, but an institution which does not have these accreditations. In short, in this case it is about accreditation of the institution, which is expected to pay a total of around 180 to 200 billion tolls of European and some Slovenian funds over the next three years. I can say that the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is well prepared to make payments from the European Treasury. This assessment was also made very clear in Brussels on the occasion of the last monitoring a few weeks ago, when the Slovenian paying agency received the highest rating of all ten candidates and also a better rating than the three countries already members of the European Union, with the work coming to an end. So, I am sure that the Agency will be successful in obtaining accreditation by the date of entry into the European Union. To this end, a large number of pre-audit reviews or interviews were also carried out. We also had browsers from Austria, Germany, that made the same point. At the moment, a pre-credit review is under way, following a plan endorsed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a proposal from our Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition. The pre-credit review shall be carried out by one of the world-renowned audit companies. If what we agreed at the beginning of last summer to carry out the pre-credit review by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia was to be completed, this pre-credit review would be completed. Regrettably, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia did not inform me by letter that they would not do this pre-creditation review. They did not give an accurate explanation, but this would be done because of lack of personnel in them or because of lack of experience. Thus, we were forced to inform the government of this fact and, on the basis of the procedures foreseen by the law, we have acquired a new contractor for the pre-credit review, as one of the world-renowned audit companies, as it were said. This pre-credit review will thus be carried out by the end of January and will take place from 1 December last year. I expect a report from this pre-credit review in the first days or the end of the first week of February, and on this basis a final part of the review of accreditation procedures can be made in March. The final report will thus be issued on schedule by 31 March 2004. On the basis of this report, the competent authority or Comp and Authority, which in this case issued an accreditation act to the Ministry of Agriculture, will then have to stop the review of the European auditors. In short, it is an extremely difficult procedure with which only our ministry in this work is faced and other ministries do not know them. However, I believe that the Agency will be accredited by the date of entry into the European Union, which is until 1 May. And where problems may arise - perhaps with a sufficient number of employees. In fact, of course, we work here according to the possibilities we can have. However, the fact is that paying agencies credited by the European Union are subject to a system of so-called four-eyes when it is always necessary to decide whether they are accepted or who is entitled to the money, and after two years people, those working - for example - on direct payments, must then be transferred to payments, to an environmental programme or elsewhere and vice versa. In short, I hope that the Agency will successfully survive as the first and best prepared of the ten accessions this challenging project.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Completing the question. Please, Comrade Fabjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u99	Very briefly. Maybe the minister's running out of time, though. The other part of the question of the critical point - and I would ask once again: Does this critical point in your response mean the number of employees currently lacking at the agency, or did you have something else in mind?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u100	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way: two critical points can be made. However, I think we will succeed in completing the project. One is the question of the number of employees. We are solving the problem of the agency together with the participation of individual number of students over summer time. I don't know if it's known, but the agency has about two and a half months in summer, about 100 students physically depositing about 67,000 large deposits in computer records. We are now talking about part of the task being taken over by the advisory service. Of course, the advisory service considers that this will result in a loss in its core, professional work, and in part the fact that in this case it should be further accredited to over 300 entry places throughout Slovenia. For the time being, we are accrediting the entry point, which is called the agency for agricultural markets and rural development in Ljubljana, but that is likely to be decided in the coming years. And second of all, which I think may be causing some minor problem, but I'm not going to say, but the problem is more philosophical or psychological, if I say so. This is, however, a practical constantly incorrect communication of some who are not satisfied with this or that in the agency, because it is simply a matter of order and discipline, and in fact when someone, instead of confirming that they are doing well in the institution, is simply not defined for a function that he would like to perform, but in this case he can throw indirectly after an unnecessary bad light. I'm sorry I said that, but this is one of the important things. However, the paying agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is called the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, is too important an institution, too much work has been invested in it and over a period of four, practically good three and a half years or four years, we have been able to make out of nothing an institution that manages to pay over 300,000 applications and applications in total of 67,000 beneficiaries and has already met the criteria of the European acquis. These are: field control, 10% and 5% of animals or crops, and what is very important, fully determine the Iaks system, which covers approximately 30 databases. The problem is another thing - with this, I conclude that the cadastral is not qualified enough and the use should be made at 10 meters in the cadastral level by 2006. Not because of it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Land. [[...]] Thank you. It's a big project. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your answer. Comrade Zmigo Jelinčič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, everybody! Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution also states that we are a social state. And today we have heard how they will share money with so-called eraseds, how everyone prepares, the whole government prepares for celebrations at the time of entry into the European Union, and on the other hand we have heard that nothing is done because of the fall of birthlessness and nothing is being done to help young families. In fact, Prime Minister Rop was deceiving what he was giving to young families. The facts are completely different. Here I have in my hands a document by which a certain person received not only a single salary or salary during his pregnancy, but a further 33,920, pardon 33,790,20 tolar compensation because she was pregnant because she gave birth. Beautiful. And he's in government at work, that's what it's called in government services. Mr Minister, is it true that I don't know how to ask, but I don't know how it is possible that such things are happening, but at the same time it lies about the welfare of the Slovenian people and of Slovenian citizens. [[...]] While your client colleague from the United List, Mr Bohinc, is opening a new post for the Assistant Chief of Police, you do not give your own staff social security. I have not deliberately asked the Minister of Finance to avoid and hide behind some narrow rules, which are totally idiotic, as we see, but I am asking you, who are competent, to protect also Article 2 of the Constitution, because he says you are also the Minister for Social Affairs. I think that's terrible. And if we read the argument that the actual amount of the salary found was, together with the compensation for temporary retention from work, lower than the deposit paid in the month of November. Please, if you can explain. In particular, arrange for young mothers to give birth to new citizens and citizens rather than hit them on the head when they are pregnant or given birth in such a way as to collect their wages and then hit them almost for one minimum wage for additional punishments because they have given birth to a new citizen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u104	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I would, of course, be grateful if I could have this decision, because I could, in particular, then respond. It's probably a decision by the Centre for Social Work or by the employer, or I don't know, I'd say hypothetically answer that question. It is good that you have actually remembered Article 2 of the Constitution, because I must say that it is not only and I also do not feel that I am the only one who protects it, but I think it is actually the task of all of us to protect, one, of course, more within our powers, the other, but it should certainly be our common commitment. I would now, given that I do not know a specific case, but I would be grateful if I could intervene here, but after the law on parental protection and family benefits, every young mother has the right to 100% compensation, I stress 100% of the compensation. It may have taken place during this time of pregnancy where an individual has earned a salary and is likely to have issued a specific recovery decision by the employer in such a case. I don't know, because I don't know this particular case. However, 100% of the remuneration for pregnancy is practically all on the basis of the contributions paid over the last 12 years. Let me say that we are practically the only country in the world, and here we are committed to the social state, which pays 100% compensation for the maternity period. Well, not just that. In individual cases, this time is still extended [[in the case of infants, in the case of twins and so on]] . Moreover, we have introduced a father's leave in pre-Last times in order in some way to bring this issue into line with the requirements - and I would not like to stress this - of the directives of the European Union. Let me finish. I will be very grateful if we can get this decision, because then we will know in concrete terms what cases this is about. However, as regards international comparisons and the commitment to implement the provisions of the social state, I think that in some ways, at least in this case, we can talk about the most appropriate or comparable provisions that we have in individual laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. This comparability with Europe is, of course, questionable. I don't believe her anymore, because where our government turns out to be talking about comparability and how kind it is, over time it turns out to be something else. Just like in this case. After all, it seems that if someone is at work all the time and then takes a maternity leave and gives birth, they first take one month's salary and then give him another sentence for giving birth. I think it really makes no sense what's going on in our country. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to review your acts, because the letter or this decision came from the Republic of Slovenia, from the Ministry of Finance, the public accounting sector. Once again, a staff member is actually a member of the administrative unit in Slovenia. I think if you do this on administrative units, how do you treat other citizens and citizens? On the other hand, there is no problem with some Todorovics and I don't know who else to pay off the crazy money; you will probably buy them a Mercedes later in the end to thank them for spitting in Slovenia. It's scary what's happening in this country. It's really time for the government to switch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u108	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u109	Well, I wouldn't generalize it like that. This is a specific issue in a specific case that can be dealt with in concrete terms. Let me once again say that comparability exists here with the countries of the European Union. I don't know what you had in mind when you said it wasn't comparable in any other area. Let me just say one number, and I don't want to get tired of numbers. When we talk about so-called social welfare expenditure, Slovenia has a gross domestic product of between 26% and 27% of gross domestic product. European countries have an average of 27%, 27.3. This is what we say when we talk about some sustainability, public financial sustainability and also the amount of funds we give for social security purposes, then we are comparable. However, the internal reallocation or internal structure of these 26.6% in Slovenian cases says that the share of so-called social transfers, social protection and family benefits has increased significantly over the last period. It is said that in this case we are talking about the positive direction of the internal structure of social protection funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Peter Levich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a question for Minister Gabra. Surely you share your opinion with the Young Slovenia Party that it is essential that the state creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education. I am sure also included the conditions for obtaining education, including accommodation during the study. It is therefore necessary to continuously address student housing problems and implement the new student beds project and to fully regulate student residences with private tenants, maintain subsidies at least at the current level and influence the abolition of school rentals for students at university centres. We are witnessing the fact that the scope of student housing in the Republic of Slovenia is lagging behind the development of higher education and higher education studies, and governments are mainly promising to regulate the problem, and in particular the battle is small. The then Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the strategy for the extension and renovation of student housing facilities in the Republic of Slovenia in order to remedy this problem with a conclusion, now from 20.4.2000 to 20.4.2000. On 14.6.2001, the current Government for Implementation, Management and Coordination set up a special project council. Since then, the fighting has only changed a little. The construction program is very late and the realisation is more than bad. Although something began to be built in Maribor and Ljubljana, once in Ljubljana nothing is really moving. No new projects have been built, and the situation remains critical. Nevertheless, in the last year we have heard promises about how things will be better by 2009. So I have some cases from the newspaper, when the State Secretary for Investments of the School Ministry was talking about three new student homes in Ljubljana. Let me warn you, these aren't new dorms. At the Faculty of Social Sciences, rooms will be built where they already stand. So the minus that is is just going to be added. Even for the other two locations, near Litrostrom, and I don't know where else, it's still not clear how or what's going to be built. These include changes to the student housing project, which reduces the volume of new buildings, with a view to investing in computers and other equipment. Let me point out that with the increase in student and student work concession fees, this is exactly what we are depriving 1% of for the construction of student homes and that the second percent is for the equipment in colleges. Question: Mr Minister, 4,000 new beds were promised in 2000 and will not be available by 2005. I also doubt that this will be built by 2009 due to poor experience. I ask you: When and how many new accommodation facilities will be built? I am interested in specific figures and dates so that we can make sure that the plans so far are just not pre-election promises, as we are taught by bad past experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, honourable Member! As you have already mentioned, this moment has only moved things around in the area of building housing capacities, specifically building student homes. In the building is a student home Lent in Maribor with 157 beds. The 8th, 9th and 10th blocks in the Pink Valley are completed, with 72 new beds. There is currently an invitation to tender for the new 253 beds in Maribor. In February, three more invitations for three new student homes in Ljubljana, namely Litostro, the Polish Road and the Faculty of Social Sciences, were scheduled to join the call. In total, this would bring 832 new beds. This is the data that speaks of the core of dynamics for 2004. However, if you'll allow me to point out that in recent years, however, the state has made sure that more students and students find a place within that bibian space, which is financed by the state in one way or another. Let me say that at 9000 beds in student dormitories, there were about 3,405 beds in private and that, in order to reduce the number of students, 1137 beds in 16 student homes were also allocated to students and students. In total, this moment is slightly more than 14,000 cities either subsidised or provided under public finances for this student population. Of course, we are not only concerned with the issue of student beds, as you have already warned correctly, but we are also interested in the issue of the entire network of higher or better-spoken tertiary education in Slovenia. Let me remind all of us that we have opened a new university in Primorska at this time. In Primorska, he is already studying about 8000 students and students, not only within the university. Let me add to this data, for example, for the Savinja region, when I talk about statistical regions, that there are about 1600 students and students who study closer to home. Otherwise, he is currently studying about 12,000 students and students in general in higher education. All of this gives a picture of decentralisation of tertiary education at work. If we read it together with the numbers I spoke about before about the living capacity, we see that we are trying to blow up students and students in a country where the number has doubled since the independence and you add, to make sure that we catch a meaningful relationship in caring for study programmes. It actually costs the most. More than 40 billion tolars Slovenia is currently transferring to the management of higher education institutions throughout Slovenia. Here we also take care of the equipment, we add, of course, concern for the decentralised installation of this network and also concern about the construction of study capacities. Let me say that I personally regret that construction itself did not go faster during a period of this decade. I hope that things will move faster now also because of the agreement we reached with the student population in Slovenia, where we also addressed perhaps unrealistic expectations and some illusions related to how many beds we should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I think that both of us, or all of us, agree to work, thank God, and that these things will be upgraded as soon as possible. In fact, there are still differences between students, both financially and elsewhere, and I only hope that this agreement will be maintained or implemented as soon as possible. It's just my comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. A well-respected choir. The old Bludkova Jumper in Planica, the cradle of ski jumping, collapsed under the weight of snow in December 2001. Stanko Bloudek, one of the biggest Slovenian inventors, was born in Idrija in 1890. At the jumpers he designed, for many years they reached, preserved, and exceeded world records until they were born with a new flying discipline on skis. From 1934, his main interest was in planning large ski jumps in Planica. In 1936, for the first time, they reached a distance of 120 meters [120 m] on the Bloudk Jumper’s Jumper, and in 1948 they reached the limit between jumps and summers. A new sports discipline was born at the Blood Jumpers, flying on skis. His successor, Brother Gorišek, continued his work. Today in Planica, athletes reach peak flights of over 200 meters. Planica has been a symbol of one of the most attractive sports disciplines in the world for many years, ski flights, followed by other world ski centers. Last year, reconstruction work began on the old Bloudkova giants, and I was so much more surprised when the ski association of Slovenia informed the investor, the municipality of Kranjska Gora, that the solutions to the restoration of Bludkov's giant are not acceptable and that the municipality should immediately stop the work on rebuilding the jumper. The renovation stopped, and other problems arose that also raise questions this year about the World Cup in ski summers. In the meantime, the president of the organizational committee of Planica Miloš Kovacič also resigned. In the face of all these problems, also due to unresolved ownership relations, the Slovenian sports public has not remained indifferent and wonders what will be the further fate of Planica, which in seven decades impressed on mountain jumping events a recognized world seal and became a symbol of Slovenian sport. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Slavko Gabra therefore asks: How does the state or ministry see the problem? How will it be actively involved in its resolution? What will be the fate of Bludkov's giant and Planica, the cradle of Slovenian ski jumps and flights and the important sports and recreation centre? I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Gaber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u119	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament! This year's world championship is not under question. A few words have been said and written on this subject for some time, but I think that, above all, it is under the impression and under a rather skillful maneuver of competitive jumping across Europe. The review of international control recently confirmed that Planica is ready to perform the World Cup, which also provides me with the ski link that took over the organisation of this competition. As for Planica in general, it may be necessary to say, however, that the construction of the Bloudka giant, reconstruction and, in fact, in an important part of the new building will continue as soon as the weather conditions allow. At that time, however, they had already reached an agreement between the ski link and the designer of this facility on what this jumper was supposed to be. The State did not cooperate in this debate, except in that it helped to find a space where it could be agreed that this agreement had been encouraged, because it was a highly professional issue. You probably understand that the ministry wouldn't explain to those who do jumps what exactly the jumper should be. I admit that I was disappointed when I realized that at a time that was even too available to agree within this sphere on what this facility should be, at a time when we were looking for funds and together at the intersection between the sponsors, the congregation and the country, this agreement was not prepared precisely enough. However, Planica is not only the object of this jumper and other jumpers that exist there, it is something that must become the sport park of Slovenia. Planica deserves it, Planica is one of the typical moments of national identity of this place. We are in agreement with the ski link and also the municipality of Kranjska Gora to give this space additional content. Through its centre of educational and educational activities, the Republic of Slovenia will invest in the renovation of the home of Planica, in which we will contribute, very important resources, added additional life, additional dynamics. We will have an important number of young people there every year who will become acquainted with this facility and spend one part of their own education, education and education in this sport park. At the same time, we are prepared to co-finance in a very important part also a climber that would allow additional content to be given to this sport park. But we're also negotiating something that I think would have seemed to have done a few years ago, when we've already tried that, but let me put it in self-critical terms, we haven't been able to do that. We agree to find an organisational form that would permanently manage this part of Slovenia, which would ensure that this facility functions throughout the year and also ensure that the funds are spent to restore this space and that the game is questionable from year to year. We have already established the public office of Planica along with the ski association and the congregation. At the time, however, there were too many interests that believed that things should not be arranged in this way as proposed. I am not saying that this organisational form should be taken care of in the future, but obviously there is a need for the permanent care of the manager who is supposed to be united at this already mentioned intersection. This is a few elements, honourable Member, from our view of Planica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you very much. An additional question, Mr Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u121	I thank Minister Gabru for this question and I am satisfied with the answer. He convinced me that the rumors that were spreading, that Planica was supposed to die, and that they were supposed to be looking for some new cents in the country, they weren't holding. According to the Minister of Sport, Dr. Gabra, Planica still has a beautiful future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. He will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Last year, I asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs whether, in any case, it is possible that a person who has the status of a veteran of the war for Slovenia has a lower pension than it would have if he did not have this status as a veteran. The answer was very clear. The minister said it couldn't be done. A war veteran who fought for Slovenia cannot in any way get a lower pension than he would get under the law on pension and disability insurance. And there was an additional explanation, very concretely. But before me is a document, and it's not just one person, it's a number of people, and I've been talking to some in person. It is written, of course, everything on the form, as it must be, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. In a specific case, it's the Koper Area Unit, but it probably wouldn't matter which unit it would be in. This veteran was interested in the pension he would receive when he retired after a certain period of time. So, just before you retire, you're interested. He got the official calculation and because it's all in the computer, it's also a computer statement, a percentage of the 3.9 pension reduction. Then, of course, the referee kindly wrote to him why it was a reduction. It says here: Because of 15 days of special age, this is the period during which he was an active participant in the war for Slovenia, the pension would have been reduced by 3.9% permanently. 3.9% permanently at full-time employment means that you're wiped out for 1.56 years because you've been at war for 15 days for Slovenia. I've been talking to more veterans and they say they don't just hope to sign up for this special age because if it comes after you, they'll have a $3.9 permanent lower pension, and then they won't sign up for it, and they'll give up. Now I'm wondering what kind of marriage is the basis for that. There may be something hidden here, but neither we nor the veterans understand. Maybe they didn't even know how to explain it on the STD. So I ask again and would kindly ask the minister to explain this to me: Where is the basis for such a reduction? I can also give him this form, although I have deleted the name, but according to other information, I can determine exactly, but I can also give it a name if necessary. It is not logical for us that someone who has fought for Slovenia has a 3.9% permanent pension cut so that he does not compare with anyone else because he does not want to discuss it now. However, I would like to ask the Minister for a specific case for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u125	As I said in the previous reply, I would also like to ask here because this is a case-by-case case so that I can respond specifically to such a specific question or case. But we have examined, I would say, hypothetically this question, which relates to such a potential calculation. I still insist on what I said back then. However, I think the reason is the difference between the retirement age and the effective working age. At least I have a feeling that this has actually come to light. The War Veterans Act only regulates the recognition of the retirement age for a period of time which has been breached in circumstances for the recognition of the status of a war veteran. The period of retirement shall be considered to be actual if a war veteran has been involved in pension and invalidity insurance or for a double period if the war veteran has not been insured under the rules on pension and disability insurance at that time. However, the War Veterans Act does not contain any provisions concerning the retirement of war veterans. This is said to be in fact subject to the same general rules on pension and disability insurance. Thus, the amount of the pension of war veterans depends on the same circumstances as with other insurers. The status of a war veteran alone cannot therefore be affected, nor can it affect the amount of the pension. That's what I said back then. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act takes into account both the age completed and the age insured or pensionable. In the case of war veterans, the double duration of the period is considered as a retirement condition, not as a dose of an old pension. In view of this, a hypothetical calculation has been made, it is possible that an insured person who has completed a minimum age and who does not have an effective working age of 40 years, even though he has a full retirement age, the pension may be reduced according to the missing age. That's by law, I think it's section 53 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. So I could take it that veterans do not have a lower calculation of their pension due to their status, but they can have a lower calculation, like all other insurers. Here is a non-discriminatory approach due to retirement before the full age. This I think is now a concrete answer to the hypothetical question that you have raised around the dose.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petan, would you like some extra? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u127	Yeah, okay. For the last time, I understood what Mr. Secretary was trying to tell me. I understood him today, too. But still, it doesn't make sense. I suggest, I will give you this document, and please, if you can answer me on the basis of this case, why is this man almost on his back when he saw that in 15 days of special time, when he defended Slovenia, he would have a 3.9% permanent pension. I understand if someone doesn't have years, then they get something with each year. But it's written here permanently. I'll give you this document, and please, if I can get a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u129	Maybe just extra. I interpreted the law so there would be no mistake, or two laws: the War Veterans Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In any event, cooperation shall not result in a reduction of any pension. If this is the case, we will examine it carefully and also order the institution for pension and disability insurance to properly interpret laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Mr Sok will ask the Minister of Transport, who is not here today. Still, Mr. Sok? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I know that the Minister is at a meeting with the transport ministers of the neighbouring countries, so he is detained. Nevertheless, I would like to raise this question orally here. I think it is very important, so I expect answers at the next meeting. Last year we had a referendum in our country on how Slovenian railways should be organised in the future. With a little more than 50%, citizens and citizens decided to form three companies from a single Slovenian railway system, namely the goods transport company, the passenger transport company and the third company, which was to deal with investments and maintenance of rail transport, infrastructure. At the same time, the Railways Directorate has turned into a railway agency which has been given great powers and will be given even more powers in the short term with the amendment of the Slovenian Railway Act. Some in this House, particularly here from the opposition, have warned that because of what has happened, security on Slovenian railways will deteriorate and that something like this will begin to happen in England, where the railways are reunited in a single system. Didn't have to wait long. Last year, on 23 December, a serious railway accident took place at the railway station in Slovenska Bistrica, which fortunately did not claim human casualties and caused enormous, multi-hundred-million material damage. All traffic between Ljubljana and Maribor was closed for two days. The accident was due to cause a car malfunction, owned by the Czech Railway. I would like to ask the Minister a question or ask him: Who will settle the damage that was estimated at about 600 million Slovenian tolars after the temporary and rapid assessment? Who's going to pay for this, or will it go at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers? What will the Ministry or Railway Agency do in the future to avoid similar accidents on Slovenian railways? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Dorian Marsič to the Minister for Culture. Here you go, Mr. Marshich. Excuse me! Excuse me? Procedural? Please, procedurally. Excuse me, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u133	I'm sorry, but I have to point out what's bothering me. Mr President, the answers to the parliamentary questions that we are getting, when we have this opportunity, could be included, say, in the media under the heading "How nice it is in our country to be young" and so on. I'm not happy. I have to protest. I have not heard the answer to any of today's questions in the sense that we will help you solve the problem, the government is trying to do something. But everything is a passport thing - in Planica they are already jumping, in schools they are already learning, in homes there are none of the government representatives who answer, answer questions or solve problems. [[...]] In particular, I also have in mind attacks on individual Members, if we are impatient, xenophobic. But today, I have not heard, say, one government representative to respond to provocations or in the direction of protecting members of the National Assembly - I will immediately stop - for example in such events as we have here. So I have a case of total xenophobia, intolerance, proliferation, I'll say, exactly the aggressiveness of ultralevial factions in Slovenia against individuals in the National Assembly. Look at these specimens! I expected from the government, and I also expect protection for the members of the National Assembly, even if the answers to the questions we are asking are not. So I would like to point out another case. For example, today I expected someone to mention things in Novi Gorica, where these same currents - excuse me, Mr Vice President, to finish - which are so impatient and so xenophobic in Slovenia, are writing pamphlets and nonsense on Gorica. We haven't experienced this in any totalitarian system. And therefore, Mr President, if, as a partner in the governance of this country, he cannot and does not want to protect us, I appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to do so. To appeal to the government, to be proper to Members, and to appeal to similar ultra-left factions in Slovenia to stop and stop attacking Members and to place them in an unruly and threatening position. I demand this on my behalf and on behalf of those who are constantly being attacked by the State Assembly if the government is unable to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u134	Otherwise, it wasn't procedural. That was your opinion on the answers. I have a negative experience myself, as far as the answers are concerned today. I cannot help you in this particular case, except to raise this question at the college and to ask the government more concrete answers to our questions. I can do this as chairman, or I would suggest that you give it in writing. Give it to the President of the National Assembly in writing with the clear demands you have made here today. There's no other way to do this, but please, it's hard to put it into a category of procedure right now. Please, let's limit ourselves to these things. Procedural, too? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's one thing that's been bothering me right now. This was, however, procedural and it is right to get rid of these things to college. But this is about specifically advertising certain newspapers. The second time I will bring the newspaper and Šentjur, specifically the news of Šentjurje, which is now being advertised by the world of Slovenia, and we will raise every one of our local media here. Please settle this for college, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Dojan Marsic has the floor, the question to the Minister for Culture. Please. Here you go, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the same time, I also express a protest. This was a typical usurpation of the Rules of Procedure and the time devoted to the question of Members. Given that colleague Rupar already has a reserved time, he could have done so at the time. I am asking the Minister of Culture an oral question. My question triggered almost daily reporting of various media on the state of the public institution RTV Slovenia. I will focus mainly on the events of the last few months, as we met Members in December with a report on the work and the findings of the supervisory committee of the public institution RTV Slovenia for the period August 2002 - August 2003. The real picture, the economic organisational and developmental position of our nationalist is catastrophic. RTV Slovenia is a public law institution according to common European standards, not the only, but the largest radio and TV institution in Slovenia and the only broadcasting institution of national importance. Due to the right to finance from the RTV contribution, it is incumbent on it to offer cross-cutting programmes, promote cultural creativity, identity, design and broadcast programmes for all types of target audiences and minorities and ensure regional balance. In this regard, I ask you the following question: How will you prepare legal solutions that will help to improve the national state itself while also preparing responses to the constant demands for increasing RTV contributions, reducing programming content of both minorities and thinking about abolishing the regional centre of RTV, the centre of Koper-Capistria and the programme of the Maribor Regional Centre? How, then, can the following words be addressed in the future that describe the situation on RTV Slovenia: this and the poor organisational structure, market failure, inefficient advertising, high and constantly increasing share of fixed costs, overemployment, over-indebtedness, missed projects, inadequate internal control and poor financial control, and lack of interest in the preparation of strategic documents? In doing so, I could add a catastrophically bad programme, with constant reruns of broadcasts. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Welcome, honourable Members and Members, Mr Vice President! I'm going to try to be very specific, and I'm going to make a comment that the government isn't concrete today, and you're going to complement me if that's not the case. I do not have the whole law on RTV before me, but it already says in Article 1 that it is the founder of the only such public institution in Slovenia, Radiotelevision Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia. This means that the powers and issues relating to our national television are shared by the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To ensure the independence of this public broadcaster, of course, the two authorities are its management, management and control bodies, namely the Council of RTV and the Supervisory Committee. In this world of RTV, which is a determining body, the National Assembly directly appoints five members, while the Ministry of Culture has its representative. All members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we already have an analysis of all public broadcasts across Europe, which, last but not least, has been prepared by the Commission in the European Union for Culture, Sport and Science, which continues to be a unique example of the organisation of some public television. That is why we also consider as proposing a new law on RTV, and we are very seriously counting on a debate and a public debate in the National Assembly on the first point, the establishment and administration or the responsibility of the founders. At the end of November 2003, the Committee on Culture, Education, Science, Youth and Sport of the National Assembly commissioned the authorities of the Management and Management of Radio Television to prepare proposals for the development of the public institution within three months of the report on the work and findings of the Supervisory Committee of the Public Institute of Slovenia for the period August 2002-August 2003. In accordance with the Committee's decision, they should also impose measures in the document and offer viable solutions in practice. At the same meeting, the same committee ordered the Ministry of Culture, together with the authorities of the management and management of the public institution, to prepare an analysis of the currently lacking legal solutions within three months. This is what we are currently doing at the Ministry of Culture. On the basis of these, however, it is necessary to draw up proposals to improve legislation. On the basis of this Decision, the Ministry of Culture expects a report on the monitoring of the situation on Radio Television in the short term, based on the lack of legislation and proposals for amendments to these shortcomings. Proposals to improve legislation also include the amendment of the provisions relating to Radio-Television and its supply, which is and will still be two-ways. One is through the contribution, which is via taxpayers, all of us living in Slovenia, and the other via the source of the state budget, this is the Information Office, which came to the positions of the Ministry of Culture last year when it comes to the implementation of the programme for specific groups. Of course, this is also a task or content that we are also counting on at the Ministry of Culture to discuss the contribution itself or the method of financing. About this initiative or the question that you have heard or that we have also read about the idea of leading our national television in order to end the regional RTV center of Koper, I think we have been misreading. This is a violation or a reduction of programmes, not terminations. Nor is it possible to abolish something that has a very good and constant legal basis, first in the law on RTV, the law on the media and, lastly, in the constitution itself, when we are talking about the programmes of our minorities in the kopier studio. That is why I have already met myself with the leadership of the Koper regional programme, where we have become thoroughly familiar with this problem, and I also intend to inform national television, which will, of course, be defined as an independent public institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much. An additional question, Mr. Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u141	Madam Minister, I have said that I have heard of thinking, but I also know of the document, although it is a degree of confidentiality, strictly confidential, which has been prepared in a particular service or agency for the purposes of RTV Slovenia, where there have also been reflections on the abolition of RTV centres. So that's not what I said from the vine. Minister, I am fully aware of the role of the National Assembly, which is the founder of RTV, and this has held a broad and critical debate in the parental committee, which you have also mentioned and set up appropriate deadlines for which I hope those to whom they are addressed will also hold. However, the contractor of this institution is the government, and directly or indirectly, the Ministry of Culture, so my question was, although you also said something about it, it was also the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to draw up appropriate legislation in this area. I could also mention here, since the failure to implement the laws of visibility and awareness of Slovenian programmes in place and the more difficult places available in Slovenia, I could also mention the non-transparent nature of wages in the institution itself, where supervisors have great difficulties in knowing what personal incomes are involved in this institution. And I could even list it. See, the RTV center Koper-Capodistria was central, if I may say so, in Ljubljana very interesting during the period, because it was an exceptional source of income mainly from abroad and it was possible to equip the centre here in Ljubljana. Now this would go against the drastic cuts in programmes and thus the functions of regional centres, especially in Cyprus, as well as in Maribor. I don't want the logic I heard the last time in an interview with Director Stakul, that if nothing was done, the country would give the concession to someone else who would do better for less money. And then the journalist Ambrožič said, "God forbid." God doesn't give you that kind of thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm just organizing myself or acting on the basis of official documents. The Committee, the Ministry of Culture, commissioned me, at the end of last November, to prepare an analysis and proposals within three months, which is until the end of February. We are based on this strategy, which we are all already reading about, but unfortunately it has not yet officially come to me. However, as I said, it is impossible for television, even if it is proposed or if it has a proposal in this documentation that it is prepared, to have any end of regional centres, is impossible. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture is just authorised here to protect the legal bases and legislation. This is based on three laws, already existing, which somehow defend or provide a legal basis for the impossible abolition of regional centres. Even more. Such a regional centre in Cyprus is preparing and is already implementing a key media policy, which is encouraged by the members and also by the new members. This is a cross-border television programme, which has already been quite successful in starting the kopje studio. That is why I do not doubt the clarity and wisdom of RTV to think or even suggest, I will say, shortening the program, but only to think about abolishing it. One is the professional basis that they have ordered for easier decision-making, and the other is what they will propose for us to prepare, as well as the basis for new legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Minister and Minister! At his previous meeting, Mr Štemberger asked the Prime Minister about the implementation of the obligations under the signed Kyoto Protocol, where he pointed out that the critical situation was not only so and that the European Environment Agency had used old data. After further verification, however, we found that this is not the case and that greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia are increasing. If I just give you a case. In the period 1996 to 1999, these emissions indeed decreased, from a minimum of 19.8 million CO2 equivalent to 19.4 million CO2 equivalent. In 2002, however, according to our data, there are 20.5 million tonnes, which means that emissions are increasing. In particular, there is also an important strategic indicator of the relationship between the gross domestic product created and the amount of CO2 emissions that is much higher for us than in the European Union, where we will enter on 1 May. I therefore wonder whether this is the fault of an inefficient environmental policy in recent years. This indicator, of course, cannot be compared with European standards. What is the operational plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions without delivering the expected results, which means reducing these and bringing them closer to Kyoto Protocol obligations? I am therefore interested in: what measures have you already taken in this area or will you reduce this trend of increase in greenhouse gas emissions in this year, in the future and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you for your word or for your question, honourable Member of the Grandchild. The government is bound by the Kyoto Protocol, which was also ratified last year. On this basis, on 31 July last year, we adopted an operational programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This foresees a series of measures, both in different sectors, in energy, in transport, agriculture and so on, and foresees a series of instruments to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide. Let me reiterate, although it is probably common knowledge that the Kyoto Protocol foresees a reduction in emissions from the baseline year 1986 only in the period 2008-2012. It is therefore impossible for them to speak immediately about what is implicitly understood from these perceptions so that the state does not adhere to the Kyoto Protocol. The state still adheres to the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. I can also say that quite conscientiously than many others. However, the effects of the operational greenhouse gas emission reduction programme will not really be visible until the first target period, 2008-2012. It is true that the Kyoto Protocol also foresees that the first serious progress should be made in 2005 and that does not mean that emission reductions should be shown in 2005 but that a serious approach to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol should be demonstrated. The whole of Europe, the European Union is currently actively engaged in this. A directive on greenhouse gas emissions trading was adopted, which is a key instrument of enforcement to reduce emissions. You also have this included in the proposal for a law on environmental protection, which is being considered on Thursday this week in general treatment here in this Chamber and which we need to adopt before 1 May. Otherwise, in the past, in 1997, as one of the first countries in Europe, Slovenia introduced a carbon tax and we have it as one of the few countries of the European Union today. This certainly affects the behaviour of those causing greenhouse gas emissions. However, the fact is that emissions have risen everywhere where economic activity has increased. In all transition countries, emissions fell heavily, immediately after the first elections, after the market entered into force and so on, because old companies or many non-competitive companies failed and, therefore, there was suddenly a marked improvement in greenhouse gas emissions. The more economic activity returns, the more people drive cars, the more factories operate or work more, the more new factories are set up, the more greenhouse gas emissions are, of course, increasing. This process is being encountered by all Europe, i.e. all the current members of the European Union, I think there is no visible reduction in emissions except for Germany, which has East Germany, where a huge industry has collapsed. This problem, of course, also follows us at the head of the transition countries and, of course, in the future, in all others. We intend to take measures in the field of energy, i.e. by closing some existing coal boilers, by shifting to gas, by increasing the volume of renewable energy, by several energy measures, by capturing the ethane from municipal waste deposits, by promoting cogeneration, remote heating and so on, in short, by a whole range of measures covered by this operational greenhouse gas emission reduction programme, to achieve the quantity that we need to achieve under the Kyoto Protocol and, hence, during this period [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 2008-2012 will not have any problems either. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I hope so. We must not be blinded by this time that we still have, but we must excuse ourselves that there is a long time left. Back analysis shows that it is not that some things are only increasing and that we do not take into account certain arrangements, that we are already late to prepare this document and so on. An example of this is the Gothenburg Protocol, where we committed ourselves to reducing NOx emissions by 27%, based on the baseline of 1990, and 5% of the emissions of volatile hydrocarbons. Between 1990 and 1997, however, these emissions increased by 12.7%. It is true that in 2001 up to 2001 they decreased by a minimum of 1.7%. However, these are facts and there is no real reduction. However, 2010 is a little closer than you mentioned earlier. That's why I want to know why this is happening. I have to say that the excuse, the bankruptcys, you didn't mention, but the bankruptcys of the heavy industry, that's positive, far from it. I therefore expect more positive government measures to help these companies in this difficult situation. Don't wait for them to die on some forced path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u150	Here you are, Mr Minister, although this is almost another question, Mr Vnučec. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. One more time. The operational programme has been adopted. Nothing has to wait for him. On 31 July last year it was adopted and it is also quite accurate over the years so that you can follow. It is a public document, so you can follow its implementation. Well, you say, concrete measures. For example - I've tried to be illustrative before, and now I'm going to try to be even more -- the Shoštanj thermal power plant has five blocks. The first three blocks are quite poorly efficient, so they consume a lot of coal on the energy unit produced, so they are old and will have to be replaced. We'll probably have to get gas there. This will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the Chestnut plant. Let me mention that indeed the trend in emissions increases comes from increased economic activity. But in 2001, and above all in 2002 and 2003, where there was an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, there were two years or two and a half years where we had a particularly major electricity supply problem. Remember that there was a great drought, for example, last year. Since it was a large drought, more than half of Slovenian energy was hanging or staying at the Šostanj thermal power plant; of course there was huge coal consumption and all this raised our greenhouse gas emissions according to the starting year for a noticeable quantity. Therefore, all of our measures will first be directed at the largest greenhouse gas emitters, such as the Shoštanj thermal power plant and the Trbovlje thermal power plant, although much smaller. Of course, there are still a number of small measures that also contribute to reducing emissions. For example, the systematic installation of methane capture in landfills of municipal waste and the disposal of this methane into combustion in gas generators at landfills themselves. This is a process that is currently being pursued in all Slovenian regional landfills. You know methane is a lot more aggressive than carbon dioxide. So on and so on. The operational programme has been adopted and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. There's no Minister of Finance today. Will you still ask the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I'm still asking a question. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states, inter alia, that the State is concerned about indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates and locals, and promotes their contacts with the country. The same article of the Constitution further states that the State protects and guarantees the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in our country. In addition, the rights of both nationalities are enshrined in Article 64 of the Constitution, and Article 65 states that the situation and rights of the Roma community must be regulated by a specific law. The rights of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia and the rights of Italian and Hungarian nationalities and Roma in Slovenia are governed by certain laws and regulations for the implementation of which individual ministries are responsible. In addition to national authorities, municipalities and public institutions set up by the State or by the municipality are in charge of implementing national minority rules. Recently, there have been protests by representatives of national minorities and communities living with us. Representatives of Slovenians who live outside the borders of Slovenia are also protesting for a longer time. They are also protesting both the National Assembly Commissions, both the Slovenian Commission for the World and the National Communities. These protests relate mainly to the government's attitude and the ruling policy towards the problems of both groups. Most or a lot of protests are mainly related to the financing of programmes and needs. The government has not yet prepared a comprehensive review of the resources allocated by the institutions of this country to meet the constitutional and legal obligations and co-financing of programmes, both for Slovenians outside borders and for other national entities in our country. With an argumented debate on real or imaginary problems that have been present in our public for a long time, such data are also needed. I know that the Ministry of Finance is not directly responsible for the implementation of these programmes, but it is the only one with a comprehensive view to the implementation of the financial plans of other ministries, municipalities and other public institutions. I would like to know how much resources the State is actually earmarking for the preservation of Slovenia in place, home and emigration and how much it devotes to the functioning of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and to the Roma community, of course, developed for each group and for individual sources of public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler also has a question for the Minister of Finance. Are you going to ask that question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Apparently, there's something we'd like to ask the Minister of Finance directly, and he's not here today. We elected the Prime Minister, Mr Anton Rope, in this Chamber a year ago. I also personally supported Mr Anton Rope as the candidate for Prime Minister at the time, because he publicly promised behind this stage to support the other Slovenian financial pillar with the New Credit Bank in Maribor. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, given that on Friday he convened members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Management Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, on condition and pressure, which he carries out as minister to individual members of the administration and supervisors, to support the merger of the Maribor Bank and the Postal Bank, provided that the Maribor Bank resigns to the Maribor Insurance Company, which is an important financial pillar of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. It is unacceptable for the Minister to allow himself to work in contravention of public opinion and with the public support of the Prime Minister. At this point in time, I'm wondering who's lying. I believe that the Prime Minister would not want to compromise himself in such a way that, behind this stage, he would say something that is not really there. The Finance Minister, however, is forcing him to support and merge the Postal and New Credit Bank when the Maribor Bank resigns from the Maribor Insurance Company or agrees that the Maribor Insurance Company will join the Sava reinsurance company in the minority capital share and control of this insurance and capital in Maribor would no longer be, but it would be in the middle of Ljubljana. I ask Minister Mumorr: Who will be selected to carry out the closed mutual pension fund for public servants? Here is the scheme, honourable Members and Members, my investments, which were most favourable under the given conditions in the tender documents. I would like to ask the Minister why he allowed the Commission, composed of representatives of the government and representatives of the union, to change the conditions several times in such a way that it allowed the Commission to gather for this pension fund for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] that the mutual fund is carried out by the Capital Society? Will this call be annulled, will the call be repeated, or is it clearly political corruption supported by the Finance Minister? I'm very interested in whether the marble plays Maribor or the robbery of Maribor?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues. I'm going to ask the Defense Minister Dr. Grisold a question. The issue concerns the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on defence cooperation adopted by the National Assembly on 19 December last year. I would like to know whether defence cooperation agreements provide for any compensation in the event of unilateral infringements of this act. In that agreement, there are no safeguards for financial compensation in cases where the unilateral and indemnity of the individual signatory from the agreement would result in financial or other damage. Let me give you an example. The assembly indirectly prevented the exercise of the Slovenian army in the Slunj range, which was planned according to the invitation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. I am also interested in regulating the transmission of classified information to a foreign country. Who in the Republic of Slovenia or in the Slovenian Ministry of Defence decides and bears responsibility in the event that secret information is transmitted to another country, without regard to the security of their own country and NATO? What are the control mechanisms for selection? How is this regulated by the acts of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and what are the consequences if one of the States Parties violates the agreement specifically in the field of security? Do these acts provide for a view of the National Assembly in the way in which secret data are transferred in a foreign country?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, thank you for the question. The Republic of Slovenia has bilateral partnership agreements with a number of countries, both members of NATO and candidates for membership, and of course also those countries operating under the Partnership for Peace. The Republic of Slovenia has jointly ratified over 20 such bilateral agreements. These framework agreements set out the forms and content and modalities of Slovenia's participation with a particular country. Agreements shall also lay down the basis and the basis for the conclusion of specific implementing agreements, in which certain financial issues are also addressed under these umbrella agreements. Specific implementing agreements may also be concluded on a case-by-case basis. Such a umbrella agreement on defence cooperation was also concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and as you yourself have found, it was ratified in the National Assembly on 19.12.2003. This Agreement provides in Article 5 that only one Party requiring logistical support from the other Party shall resolve financial matters separately with a specific agreement. In the past, when individual forms of military cooperation were implemented, in accordance with adopted annual cooperation plans, such as military exercises and the like, specific implementing arrangements were concluded, which also included general principles for covering any damage that might arise to the receiving State due to the activities of the forces of the sending State. As a rule, however, the principles set out in the general status-of-forces agreements apply. Slovenia has ratified such an agreement between the States Parties to the North Atlantic Alliance and other countries participating in the Partnership for Peace on the status of their forces and the Additional Protocol on 18.12.1995. In a specific case where training of Slovenian Armed Forces artillery units was planned at the Slunj site, a special non-contractual international act was being drawn up, namely a memorandum of agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia on the execution of the artillery shooting of the Slovenian Army in Slunj, that is, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It specifically stated that the provisions of the umbrella agreement, which had not been ratified at the time, and the above-mentioned status-of-forces-partnership or SOF, as we normally call it, should be taken into account. Since the memorandum was not adopted on the Croatian side, there was no obligation on their part, so the Republic of Slovenia cannot impose any requirements on the Croatian side. In view of Croatian domestic legislation, it is, of course, necessary to take into account that such a memorandum is the responsibility of the Assembly. The aforementioned agreement, which regulates the status of forces and between members of NATO, has no other solution. The second part of your question concerns the transmission of classified information about another country. The decision to transmit data to recipients outside the country, including classified information, shall be taken by the Minister of Defence in accordance with several laws: the Defence Act, the Secret Data Act and the applicable memoranda of understanding on the transmission and protection of classified data, on the basis of a written proposal by the Head of the competent organisational unit of the Ministry. In the field of intelligence and security, the applicant is the Ministry's Intelligence and Security Service, which is governed by Article 33 of the Defence Act. In doing so, the Ministry of Defence must not, of course, provide recipients outside the country with data that would endanger the safety or other vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia or the NATO Union. In the defence field, the fundamental principles of data protection generally govern already bilateral umbrella agreements on defence cooperation. Those laws and agreements shall govern the determination, handling of classified information, including procedures and liability in the event of detected breaches of the obligation to protect classified information. In the defence area, breaches relating to classified data are sanctioned both by criminal law and by the law on defence; otherwise, in accordance with the law on classified data, the implementation of regulations and international agreements on the protection of classified data is monitored. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of classified information. [[..]] In contrast, this office also reports on the actual situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u160	Thank you. Would you like an extra question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u161	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u162	Thank you. We're moving on. It's Mr. Marko Diaci's turn. He will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. In the past, we have already asked the Prime Minister about the demographic problems of Slovenia, who felt that the State aid was appropriate and that the parents received various forms of assistance. These are all the help that parents receive when the child is born. The decision on the child is mainly influenced by the housing, employment and educational problems of young people. Here, however, the role of the State is all the more than exhilarating. Speaking of employment. One of the first questions raised by a young job candidate is when you will have a child. The second question, if it already has it, is how does it have proper protection? The third question is how much the hospital stock spends on this. From the point of view of the employer, who looks strictly rationally, this is a logical question. From the point of view of the employee and her partner, not even under the point of view. This is one example where the country should have a family policy strategy. Family policy and legislation should be geared towards promoting early transitions to independent life, in particular through adequate housing policy and motivated early birth of the first child. We have been able to understand from the media that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing a national family programme to be adopted early this year. Since we have not yet received it, I am interested in the following: At what stage of preparation is the national programme and when will we get it to the national assembly? I further wonder: who has participated in the preparation of this national programme. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u165	You have asked the honourable Member quite a few questions. I'll try to answer something. First time. When you talk about what the employer asks, in some cases you have explained or defined, it is a matter of discrimination. The employer should not ask certain questions. This is as far as anti-discrimination legislation is concerned, as part of European legislation included in the Labour Relations Act, Article 45. Article 8 also speaks of this non-discriminatory approach, and we have a practical approach to legislation, compliance with European Union directives and some conventions of international organisation of work, this is legally harmonised. If such cases occur, I have also said several times in this honourable Parliament that anonymous applications may also be possible to protect an employee or an employee, how the employer may have acted on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, our concern is that such cases of obvious discrimination should not occur. The work of the Labour Inspectorate is also aimed at finding and preventing discrimination in the workplace. So much for that first part. Another time. As far as the concept of family policy is concerned. The question of an individual, entering into a working relationship, establishing a family, acquiring an apartment are, in fact, all the factors that are somehow related to each other. This is precisely why the latter, so to speak, the concept that has evolved in the professional circles and is in some way also included in this national programme for the child that you have talked about and which has been practically preparing for the last two years has focused on the child and, above all, the birth of the first child. Experts have found that demographic policy, family policy in particular, or conceptually, should be targeted at the first child. We have also talked about this several times, a whole series of round tables, and experts have contributed a great deal to this topic. This is also an integral part, or was the basis for the preparation of a national programme for children between 2003 and 2013, which is said to have completed the first test for a period of ten years, so to speak, a professional examination and was accepted and confirmed by the Section for the Family at the Ministry of Labour and sent for further consideration. This will be relatively soon in the government procedure and then practically immediately in Parliament. This is a very important document, which is supposed to present in some way a new arch of new policy, which is concluded with a previous document, a resolution on family policy, which was adopted in 1993 and was valid for a decade. We therefore wish that now this national programme for a child, where there is also a chapter on the family, would be in some way for the next decade. Let me say that practically this resolution on family policy has been implemented through a series of laws, namely the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, the Amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Law on the Guarantee Maintenance Fund and the relevant Conventions, some of which have been ratified and some are still awaiting ratification in Slovenia. Our orientation, so to speak, in the conduct of family policy, as I said before, as far as the concept is concerned, so to speak, the issue of maintenance, maintenance recovery, international livelihoods and so on, is our assessment that, as far as the implementation of family policy is concerned, we have the appropriate documents that we will upgrade, as I said, with the national programme, and the relevant institutions that are comparable again and which in some way enable the implementation of family policy. And that. During this time, a whole series of individual instruments were adopted to in some way accelerate the coordination of family and professional life. After all, we also had a Council of Europe conference on this subject in 2001 in Portorož.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you. You want to ask an additional question, Mr Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u167	Thank you. Maybe there'll be a question. Maybe there'll be a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u168	Just an extra question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u169	What the legislation says, of course, I know well. I know this is very well arranged, I know this is also in line with EU directives, but in practice it is in large cases - I will not say 100% - but in large cases, as I have said. That is why I expect from this national family programme, in particular that the country here as a regulator will take care of this important step between the worker and the employer. It is also logical from the employer's point of view that he has to plan a human resources policy. This is where this institute of the state is actually needed. I expect in the national programme on family policy that this segment will also be regulated in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u171	Just for an explanation. This national programme is a very broad and very fragmented programme, and I believe that it will be on sent-off benches in a short time, and, of course, it will be an opportunity for us to upgrade it with all these instruments or policy issues, or the implementation of policies, better said, and then I think it will also be a time for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you. Ms Silva Črnugelj has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's oral question I am writing to you, Minister Franc But. Slovenian beekeepers have recently been unable to observe how their bee families are falling, although throughout the year they devote their attention to proper and appropriate recommended treatment. Their suspicion is that these falls are caused by the use of goulash pesticides. In agriculture, it is used for the processing of maize seeds, sugar beet seeds and potatoes, as well as for the preparation of sunflower seeds, oilseeds and the like. Gouča contains an active substance, emidacloprid, which protects plants from various pests, insects and plants by extracting them with roots and carrying them throughout the plant all the way to the pollen. Bees are infected over pollen. And it affects them like nerve poison. Some lose orientation, others die when they enter the hive. It is known that this active substance remains in the earth and that if planted on this surface of another culture, it is infected in the same way. Beekeepers noticed that when they planted the ida. French beekeepers have warned of this problem decades ago. And years ago, German, too. Many analyses and research have been carried out in both countries to confirm this suspicion. I'm asking. How and what measures will the Ministry begin to implement and how will five registered plant protection products containing emidacloprid and fipranol be defined for use in Slovenia? Do we have adequate equipment and knowledge in Slovenia that stroke analysis can determine the presence of this pesticide, so that these analyses will be reliable and that beekeepers can rely on to repair the damage that will or will be caused by the use of these preparations? Who's gonna take care of this damage? I expect from the Ministry that, together with the relevant professional services and the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia and other relevant institutions, it will approach this issue professionally and very responsibly. Any additional environmental burden has a long-term negative impact on human health, that is, all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for your question. We have been informed of this, of course. We already know the problems beekeepers are dealing with, particularly in France. We were officially informed by the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia in the December of last year, i.e. a good month ago, about the observed increases in the number of bees in the autumn months of last year in Slovenia. At the same time, an expression of suspicion was also given that emidacloprid may be the cause of this, which is an active substance in the cove of preparations. On this basis, it was found after the investigation that no analysis had been carried out in beekeepers’ bees, which would otherwise have to be done and invited someone to come to the analysis. The Ministry therefore called on the veterinary administration and the inspectorate to approach the actual causes of increased bee rest. These procedures are underway. In the first week of February, a joint meeting will be held with key representatives of the beekeeping association, experts requested to participate, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the veterinary administration inspectorate, as well as producers of plant protection products containing emidacloprid from abroad. We're waiting for the analysis now. If the analysis of the competent services in Slovenia actually shows that the cause is emidacloprid, of course Slovenia will inform the European Commission of the intention to prohibit the use of this asset in Slovenia. Why the intent? Because of the fact that, in the status that Slovenia has today, we owe it to Slovenia since 1 January and, of course, with 1 May, so much more so that, in fact, due to the rules of the internal market, which are sometimes unusual, it does not decide which product or product will be used in Slovenia or not, Slovenia, but rather the European Commission or 25 competent directors of plant health administrations from 25 countries. A Member State of the European Union, including us as accessionists, does not have the right to exclude voluntarily because of the unusual but clear rules governing the functioning of the internal market, thereby causing so-called unfair competition. In short, in any case, we will notify the European Commission of any evidence we can obtain. We don't have that evidence yet. On this basis, we will also say that we want this asset not to be used in Slovenia. In this problem, the European Commission in the world of ministers, as well as working bodies at the level of directors of plant health administrations of the 15th century, has debated several times, most recently at the request of the French once again. So far, no measures have been envisaged in the European Commission to prohibit the use, but only to discuss the reasons for the deterioration of the bee family in France. The result, however, is that emidacloprid, an active substance in the gum preparation, is registered in all EU countries and all other countries of Europe. It has been registered in Slovenia since 1995 and is not prohibited in any country, only in France it is not allowed to use on sunflowers and is allowed to be used in maize, potatoes and sugar beet. Of course, I am deeply committed to the fact that if we find that it is one of the reasons, we do not have this conclusion to prevent it in Slovenia. As it is said, we must obtain the consent of the European Commission or an appropriate level in relation to the rules of the internal market. However, as far as analysis is concerned, the analysis for emidacloprid is carried out by the Institute for Health Care in Maribor, but in a liquid chromatography manner, which is not sufficiently accurate, sensitive, shows only the content, not the quantity, but only that or not show. So these experiments that we are going to do now will be done on the oily spectrometer, in a laboratory in Italy. Who's gonna cover the cost? First, it is necessary to determine if these costs are at all. If it is found that this is the reason, in this case, it is necessary to burden the manufacturer first on the basis of the rules and then also on the basis of the law of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u176	Addictive. Complementarity of the answer, actually.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u177	With regard to the damage, you have made it quite clear to me that you will first be producers of this poison, which is obvious that beekeepers have problems and problems. As you know, they will also organize a consultation on this subject in Brdo pri Lukovica on February 5th. Perhaps you too will attend because the damage is already and the damage will probably have to be covered in one way. I wonder: Will you, like your French colleague in 1999, apply the principles of caution, given that you already know and are warned that damage is being done and that the nuts suffer?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u179	Thank you very much. In general, I respect the so-called preventive measures in my work very much, and we are generally superstandard in all areas, as far as consumer protection is concerned, in particular in this area. We will meet with representatives of beekeepers and others and producers next week on the basis of our activities, and if there is any theoretical suspicion in Slovenia, of course I will propose the most rigorous possible measures and also ask the European Commission not to allow the use of this preparation in Slovenia. In this regard, other activities must be carried out. But I would like to point out that the eventual recovery of damage from producers is an extremely difficult business, because in this case, I think it is a procedure that lasts extremely long. I do not know, it is necessary to check and verify how, on the basis of the law adopted by this National Assembly, it is possible, before this, to settle the damage if it is found that it is something outside the beekeeper's fault or which is related to other activities which are, in any event, related to the activities of the wider community or the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Zampernik. Question to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Although I wonder very rightly what the point of asking questions is, because here we all have a list of 40 unanswered questions that have already expired, some of them already last June, which is already set in business. The transmission's gone, so I don't know why we're even asking questions. There are two of mine on this list of 40 unanswered questions. One was put to the minister, and I will also ask him today, and I am even more concerned about the meaning of this. Nevertheless, perseverance is a beautiful beauty. I'll still try to get an answer to the question. Why is it not possible to pay to use road tolls in Slovenia with any payment card when registering a passenger car? Mandatory, helmet, technical check, we can pay everything with a payment card, but we can't pay the toll card that's mandatory. This, of course, has caused a number of distasteful events. I was a witness to this. I had a technical review this January. Because people don't have the cash, and when they wait in line, they have to put themselves back in line, go raise the cash, then pay the state what's Caesar's. Is it the fault, as said colleague Jerovšek here, that the e-ministery is unable to get those machines where this card is drawn, or is the reason that cash is easier to manipulate. I don't see why that's the case. I therefore ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior, because you are covering this: Why is that not possible now or when? Will any other special e-business office have to be set up to do that, or what? So the answer to these two questions is why it is not possible now and when it will be possible. As for the answers that I have not received - apparently the Minister of Education has moved to the advisory line of Jelinčič - and I would also ask him to answer the question that I have also asked firmly in last year, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you. There is now no Minister of Transport for excusable reasons. Minister Bohinc, I don't know, do you want to say anything about this?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you so much for asking, but it wasn't addressed to the right address. Perhaps this is one reason why you do not always get an answer to your questions. The Ministry of the Interior has no jurisdiction over the payment of annual charges for the use of vehicles. Neither is the proposal for a regulation nor is it the operator of such installations at toll stations. He has no jurisdiction in this area. In the case of registration of vehicles, these items should also be regulated on the basis of an appropriate sub-legislative regulation. The Ministry of the Interior is of the opinion, as you do, that it would be advisable to pay card fees of this kind. That is why we have already carried out administrative fees in the last year, because it seems right for us to pay the country with these already established modern payment funds. So we agree with you on this issue. In January of this year, we have also proposed, without being competent, to the Government such a decision - to entrust the Ministry of Transport with proposing appropriate amendments to such a regulation. At that time, the Ministry of Transport, in its inter-departmental coordination, considered it useful to welcome such an initiative, but it is not in a position to carry out this project and should therefore be considered to be inconsistent with them. For what reasons the Ministry of Transport has led in this regard, I cannot tell you because this is not my responsibility. But I am prepared to do everything in support of this thing being carried out in Slovenia. However, the question will have to be addressed to the Ministry of Transport and probably also to the Ministry of Finance, at least so the Ministry of Transport in that reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I don't know, I wonder if it makes sense to ask questions to the Minister when citizens are asking questions. Many address them to me, as well as the next question, but of course the answer will not be able to see or hear, because there is no transmission. Maybe I'll get the answer, but the question is, if they believe me what the minister was answering or question me, they'll question that I've given a credible answer to what the minister said. I don't care. We are currently considering the law on marriage and family relations. As you know, one of the most problematic articles is the regulation of personal contact between divorced spouses and children. In this regard, we have proposed a minimum of four hours or four days of monthly contact, which would at least meet the needs of minimum contact with the parent. But we know that's certainly not enough. Social work centres, which are under the co-ordination of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, imagine regular personal contacts somewhat differently, two hours of contact within two months, three hours twenty minutes per month of contacts. This should be sufficient to implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I absolutely cannot agree with such solutions, no, probably you, not anyone in this Slovenia. However, we ask ourselves and ask ourselves whether it is not a violation of the laws and fundamental needs of children to contact their parents or parents. Social work centres make incomprehensible decisions on personal contacts. What does the Department of State say about such decisions made by the professional services within your jurisdiction? What doctrine is behind such solutions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u186	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the issue of contacts is one of the areas that we want to resolve with amendments to the law on marriage and family relations, since in the past it has proved to be one of the weakest articles in regulating relations between parents and children. I would say myself with regard to the implementation of the Convention that this Convention on the Rights of the Child, in particular you probably thought of Article 9, paragraph 3, being implemented directly. In this respect, as a basic concept and doctrine, it is important to ensure the rights and benefits of the child. That is why, in the proposed text of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we have stressed the rights of the child in particular, so we have also passed the decision on rights, namely on rights, contact with the courts, and have also agreed with the courts that this will also be applied after the second hearing in Parliament by 1.5, not by 1.9, as we originally proposed. It is said that we could start implementing this law earlier. As for these decisions of the Centre for Social Work, which you have pointed out, citizens are also turning to us, what and how and so on, but here we need to know that we are a very difficult judge here, both you and us, because it is, for the first time, an expert question and an individual case.If we are based on the doctrine that the child's right and the benefit of the child is a fundamental guide, from which comes the decision of the centres for social work, as a professional decision, then there is probably a certain "wario" or, in the background, the question of how it was and will be contacted. In the individual cases that you may have mentioned, no longer had contact with one of the parents. This may be the reason in the specific case that then the Centre for Social Work expertly assessed that it might be wise to gradually establish these contacts. Then there are other reasons. Above all, I would like to stress once again that this is a matter of professional decision in the sense of stressing the child's benefits. In individual cases, even administrative contacts shall be terminated if such contact has also harmed children. This has happened in a number of cases, not mass, but we have also had such cases. This seems important to me once again to say that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is being implemented, as I said before, paragraph 9, and that there are individual professional decisions when these contacts occur. Of course, we have already done a lot of this debate on committees and in Parliament with amendments to the law on marriage and family relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, complement the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u189	Of course, I cannot be satisfied with this answer. What you're saying, Minister, is a theory. It has nothing to do with practice. There is no contact between the child and the parent for two hours every two months. This means that the parent has no confidence that he is useless. These are not regular contacts - once for two hours every two months! Friends don't meet so often, not parents with their children. Certainly not, Mr. Secretary. If the professional services consider that the parent is useless, harmful, or dangerous, then they should initiate a procedure to find out. Otherwise, ensure regular contact for the benefit of the child. If he meets him for two hours for two months, it's not a relationship. You will be able to agree fully with that. Then why not support this article, which you say is a weak article? That's what we suggested. Suggest that at least this will be the minimum that experts advocate. That's exactly what it is, and we certainly can't land on this solution. I hope that the Court will act appropriately to adopt another practice, a human practice that follows the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Otherwise, we will also have to ask a little more broadly what regular contacts mean if these two hours are for you for two months.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u190	Minister Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u191	I'll repeat what I said, as far as doctrine is concerned, what you asked. I can certainly agree that maybe the number you've given us about the contacts isn't enough. But I said before, there are individual cases where this is actually professionally defined. This is said to be the experts at the social work centres who set up and decided to do so. We can't make over-decisions like a political or administrative decision. I said before that there are cases of administrative decisions where a child is in harm's way. The administrative procedure shall then be initiated to put an end to such contacts. This is happening, not mass, of course, but it is happening. Therefore, in my view, doctrinally speaking, it makes no sense to set certain limits of contact. However, I agree that in such cases it may be necessary to work in some way in the long term for the benefit of the child and to benefit the child. Of course, some administrative decisions, so to speak, the scope of contacts and so on, will probably not solve what is the basic problem of the relationship between a child and a parent. But you can agree with that, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Franci Rokavec has the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Since only the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, is present here, first of all a nice greeting only to the Minister of the Interior. However, I believe that this issue is probably also within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Government as a whole. First of all, friends and colleagues, hello! The question is: How is it possible that at the World Congress of Fiava, this is the international federation of flag associations in Stockholm, at the end of last year, Mr Željko Heimer from Zagreb for the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for the neighbouring country of Croatia, as well as for Bosnia and Herzegovina, there was a real representation of both our coat of arms and our flag? Besides, there's been a scandal. In addition to the division of these symbols, the symbols of the former Nazi NDH, the Independent State of Croatia, were also planted in the material. With regard to this incident, I ask the Minister: Who is paying the costs to enforce the symbols of the Republic of Slovenia through foreign institutions? Who cares about the use of our symbols through foreign institutions? Who pays them, and what is the concept of promoting and identifying our symbols abroad? In this regard, too, the question: Is all this true? According to Heraldik Slovennik, these documents are also documented. The question then arises: Who authorised Mr Heimer from Slovenia to represent the symbols of Slovenia at this international conference of the said association? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u194	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior if he can answer this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Ministry of the Interior does not promote the symbols of the Slovenian State abroad, nor does it have the financial means envisaged for this, nor does it have jurisdiction under the Government Act. The Ministry of the Interior has no authority because it would oppose Slovenian regulations if it were to promote Slovenian symbols at any event abroad, not even the specific Željko Heimer at the congress you are talking about. The Ministry of the Interior has also not explored this issue from any point of view. If this was done abroad, in Stockholm, so much less. He hasn't even been informed of anything like that. Under the Government Act, he is in charge of promoting Slovenia abroad - I also believe that the symbols of the Government's Information Office, which also has the funds envisaged for this purpose, and the programme based on the government's adopted concept. More on this concept, however, from the point of view of the powers and responsibilities I have in this government division, it would be difficult to speak. This is a question which must be addressed to the Foreign Ministry or to the Information Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Given that the question was also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would now like to ask your definition of whether the oral answer to the next meeting or the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u197	I expect an oral response at the next meeting. In particular, because of what Mr Minister has said, it also falls within the competence of the Government Information Office. The fact is that it would probably be necessary to see the concept of promoting our symbols abroad and also what activities were involved in this or whether there was any protest in this regard against such conduct or abuse of our symbols at this convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u198	Thank you very much. You have addressed the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so we expect an answer from him first. Thank you very much. My colleague Paula Rupar has a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you. On the basis of the rules on the methodology for the pricing of public service programmes in kindergartens, general elements for the pricing of programmes are laid down. The adjustment of prices according to the elements set out in this methodology shall be made once a year in the light of the annual growth of the elements. Unfortunately, the local community has no impact on the amount of costs that are the basis for calculating the price of the programme and is obliged under the law to pay the difference between the price of the programme for the child and the payment of the parents. Following the determination of the number of employees, the optimal organisation of work shall be taken into account. Since labour costs for workers whose actual employment is above the standards should not include the price of the programme, I ask: Why is the local community, then, the one who has to provide additional funds for the costs incurred by poor management in running a public institution? Where is the border where the local community has to provide funds by law for individual purposes, to which the local community has no influence, and then it turns out that the costs of the public institution have been incurred by the management and without the consent of the founder? When is the principal responsible for unpaid salaries and unpaid accounts of suppliers? Last year, the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules on Parents’ Payments for Kindergarten Programmes were published in the Official Journal. I have in mind a questionnaire or an application for parental property. The local communities have called on investors by law to supplement their applications by making a declaration on the property of family members, using the forms of this Regulation. In doing so, local communities are left with investor confidence and cannot verify the reality of the data transmitted. If so, it is contrary to the Constitution. The property of the parents shall also not include the value of the dwellings or dwellings used by the members of the family for permanent residence. So someone can live in a very luxurious villa, worth a few billion, and the congregation displays information that is, say, made up, so the congregation has to pay these children or pay these parents the cost of kindergarten for their child. I ask for a reasoned explanation of such a legal omission from the point of view of the use of public funds. The Kindergarten Act, paragraph 28, lays down the obligations of local communities until kindergarten. I'm asking: Why does the local community, which is the main financier and founder of the educational law, have so little or no powers in the appointment of a public administration other than consent? Why is the law provided for such funds by the World Institute that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The founder and chief funder in the institution practically has no word and cannot, for example, influence the good functioning of the institution? [[...]] Local community legislation imposes a lot of obligations, but unfortunately it allows very little authority to influence the management of the public institution of which it is the founder. I'm asking you for answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Slavko Gaber, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Vice President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the law governing pre-school education adopted by this Parliament, lays down both the obligations and the rights enjoyed by individual entities involved in the field of pre-school education in one way or another. In this case, the local community, which is thus the founder of these public institutions, is not in the work, a very important work, including the funder of these preschool organisations, is the one which, in agreement between kindergarten and the municipality, determines in fact the annual scope of the activity and also the method of financing. In the majority of municipalities in Slovenia, this arrangement is quite ongoing and, of course, the relationships between kindergartens and municipal administrations and municipal administrations are such that they do not cause major problems, so they do not cause major problems. While the division of regulation in this area is such that, in one part, it interferes with this area as regards the most regulatory, most general rules, including the State. In this area, it intervenes by drawing up, for example, the methodology referred to by the Member, after which you gain an opinion. In our case, even more, the consent of various associations, municipalities, two in this Slovenian case. We are trying practically all the issues, such as, for example, we will all remember together when we amend and supplement the laws on preschool education in the previous year, as well as in the methodology of obtaining this consent. This is how management and organisation of this whole area is taking place. Of course, the Council of the Public Institute is involved, in which the municipalities have their representatives or representatives. Our experience is that when issues concerning a particular issue in kindergartens are opened in a timely manner, there is usually an appropriate agreement. We strive to help out where complications arise, together with the complications that arise. As regards the specific issue that measures certain costs that are not included in the price, these are the costs that must be agreed between the municipality and kindergarten. However, if once confirmed by the annual plan, it is clear that they have been confirmed. There are some types of superstandard over what is prescribed for the whole country as a minimum and we have decided for it together in this Parliament. If I conclude with a reply that we can give you in writing in more detail after this meeting, the applications for proof of property have therefore received great support here in Parliament. We all agreed that it was wise, however, to try to cover the property of people who, by the way, show the need for the congregation to co-finance them when their children are in kindergarten. It is not known to me that we could avoid this with fairies that are really worth as much as you mentioned to control. But it does not hold, as I know, that it is not possible to verify that these statements cited are correct. We are also prepared to help clarify these issues in the future if they are still open.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dude, aren't you happy with the answer? Would you like a refill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u203	I'm sorry, come on. So, the point of the question was: How to eliminate the poor business management of kindergartens? Unfortunately, I didn't get any answers. Mr Minister, you have described a situation that I know very well, but I have not asked how it is so far, but I wanted answers to these questions. Among other things, what I would like to ask you below is that from both communities you have received, as well as from kindergartens, management and employees, no more appeals to the state to take over the financing of wages or at least a good part of the costs for kindergartens if it has already invented or the Ministry, if it has already invented such a system as it does. But this system is going to go bad, and you know it. So, the problems in Ptuj, Mengsha, Lithuania are very big problems, and even in Ljubljana, although they are hidden - no one dares to say it. You know that. Of course, this will have to be resolved very, very quickly and very well because we are talking about small children, which are the ideal basis for politicians and for disputes between each other. The aim is neither the Ministry nor the municipalities, but I am sure of this, but it is not that children should be deprived of their rights to protection and their conditions. I also thank your associates, the Holobars, for our cooperation. However, given that this is a very pressing problem, where the Minister and the competent ministry should also be interested in dealing with it as soon as possible and in resolving it, I propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, that the National Assembly decide to hold an extended debate at the next meeting. So please, if we can vote on this tomorrow. However, in the event that I assume that this will not be considered as an item of the agenda for the next meeting, I would like to ask, Mr Minister, for written answers so that I can at least present them to those involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The Minister would like a word to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, the way to get rid of kindergarten management is determined by law and other acts. We know he is called the world, and the world also solves everyone. That's familiar. Of course, he does it with most voices and there are no big secrets here. It is true, however, that, like myself, I cannot resolve principals, such as secondary schools, which are state-level schools, as well as the mayor or mayor, for example, cannot solve the principal or the principal of the kindergarten. As far as wage financing is concerned, we both know that we have had the opportunity to discuss this as a two-part story. We talk here a lot about how the whole system in this country is too centralised, how all the finances are flowing to Ljubljana and then Ljubljana in its own parts - that's what we like to say. Pre-school education is a typical example of decentralised finances in this area, and we all know that if the country were to pay in kindergartens, then it would also take over finances from municipalities, because it would probably not be possible to obtain these funds from elsewhere. I don't think that would make too much sense. The reverse is foreseen at least in the debates on local self-government, better said on the regionalisation of Slovenia, including salaries for primary schools and secondary schools, to be transferred and generally managed with all this to the level of the provinces, so that it will go in this direction rather than the other way. And I understand that it is quite difficult to finance quite often - kindergartens especially when they have a decent high standard. This is usually what parents expect, and we all expect it together, not least that we have confirmed it here, in this Parliament- a standard that talks about how many children in groups, what kind of education teachers should be; but more resources for it are also some identity card of those who run or run congregations. But I know there's no money for everyone, but not just in the congregations, not in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kramberger has a question for the Minister of Environment, Space, Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! I'd like to ask the Minister of Mag a question. Janez Kopač about the flow of water on the Mutska Bistrica River. In this national assembly, this issue has been repeatedly exposed. I have only 3 minutes to ask the question of the Member States, so I will limit myself to legal and material facts in the question. Colleagues and colleagues! In April 1985, a water law license was issued to Kelag, a Coroner of Shareholders, whose 30th point specified that a limited company should provide water management measures and control them in the Bistrica Valley in a way that ensures a minimum water flow in the border profile, namely 1 cubic metre per second for a period of ten months per year. For the remaining two months, normally January and October, not less than 0.85 cubic metres per second. We also know that Kelag has violated this provision since the operation of the power plant more or less and that the Republic of Slovenia has not insisted on implementing the agreement. In May 1999, even the agreement and amendment of the 30th point of the decision between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the so-called Drava Commission agreed that, unless otherwise specified, Kelag must ensure a minimum flow of water within the border profile for a period of 10 months, as a rule, 1 cubic meter per second and for the remaining two months also to the rules of not less than 0,85 cubic metres per second. They also agreed to tolerate a seven-hour reduced flow, but even a 24-hour tolerance is permissible if the monitoring company, which it also carries out, demonstrates some technical arguments. Such a provision was agreed and reached 8 million shillings of compensation. On 6 January 2000, the Government of the Information Office provided information that this compensation was paid in return and, in fact, it was some kind of payment of the change agreed on - that is, they prove, this is evident from the documents - in such a way that there is no minimum flow of the said river at all. Dear Minister, I ask you for a very precise answer: Is the minimum flow rate in the Bistrica River border profile determined and in litres per second? Such a water regime, such as it is now, makes it impossible downstream on the Bistrica River to implement aquaculture. We know that on this river we have the second largest farm, which has a concession from this country and also a concession, this country charges it at one-and-a-half cubic metres per second, and the second one-and-a-half cubic metres per second. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u208	Thank you for asking. Minister Digger, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Well, as you mentioned, Slovenia has inherited from the former Yugoslavia an agreement with Austria on water management issues relating to Drava from 1954, and the Interstate Commission is working on this. On this committee, the two delegations agreed in 1999 on the conditions for movement on the Mutska Bistrica border profile, the situation until then, as you mentioned, was unregulated. Well, so in 1999 a mandatory quantity of water was agreed, i.e. the minimum flow that the Republic of Austria is obliged to provide under certain conditions on the watercourse border profile. At that time, the Ministry of the Environment, or the water authority, issued to Kelag, a concessionary company, a decision imposing a mandatory quantity of water on the border profile as agreed on by the Commission, which should normally not be less than 850 litres per second in February and March and should not be less than 1000 litres per second in the remaining ten months. In short, a decision was issued and no minimum was abolished in 1999 but it was only an amended 1985 decision. However, 1999 was actually an agreement between the Municipality of Muta, the government and the company Kelag, which did not provide for the flow, was established in the decision, but was determined by the compensation paid by Kelag to Slovenia or the Municipality of Muta, which, according to our information, also paid damages to the fishermen on the Mutski Bistrica River. However, in Article 3 of this Agreement, the State, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, agrees with the conditions of the water management situation, this is the mandatory quantity of water at the State border, which was previously confirmed by that Standing Commission and were determined by that Decision. In view of this, we therefore estimate that in 1999 there was a minimum water flow between Slovenia and Austria, which is due to be provided by the Republic of Austria on the border profile on the Mutski Bistrica River in quantities, as I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u210	Thank you very much. My colleague Kramberger wants to complete his response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u211	Minister Digger, I don't think we understand each other. In fact, in this amended 30th point, as you said, it says that "rightly" is this amount of water that you've been dedicating, which is set here. However, the previous decision clearly stated the same diction, but without "rules" and monitoring very clearly shows that the flow on the border profile does not reach these quantities. So this amended rule allows you to break it. Even as I said, if the flow is reduced by 7 hours, nothing will happen if it is reduced by 24 hours, but maybe something could happen, but the state of Slovenia does not have any leverage to act on because we have such an agreement. I have here documents that were given to me by interested parties who make this very clear. The concessionaire wrote to you in a letter with a similar question on 24 September 2002 and did not receive an answer to that question until today. Indeed, the economic activity of aquaculture is exclusively linked to the flow of water. And, let's say, whoever's doing this activity, when they put fish in the farm, they need to know what kind of water flow they're going to be counting on. This is not specified and on the basis of this there is economic damage. I don't think we read this rule the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u212	Thank you. One more word, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Look what you asked me, that's my answer. In short, there is a minimum quantity of water to flow between Slovenia and Austria. As you yourself mentioned, there is a minimum derogation, because this is indeed a "rule", but it is also stipulated that, due to the technical data to be made available, short-term shortcomings of the above mentioned limit values may be tolerated up to a maximum of 7 hours, with the demonstrated failure of the monotoring as a tolerance limit of 24 hours. Otherwise, monitoring must be constant and must not show that the flow would be reduced, i.e. monthly 850 litre seconds or 1000 litres per second in the remaining months in order to be less than 7 hours. If it is less than 7 hours, there is compensation. It's very clearly written down. However, the problem is that the concessionaire, who has a farm, opened or inherited a farm on the basis of a water permit which, according to known data, did not foresee a greater quantity of such larger quantities. But the relationship between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia is regulated. And that's pretty specific. And in 1999 it was settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u214	Thank you. Yeah, it's gone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u215	Well, I would then - so now the procedure does not allow us to do so. Then I would ask you to arrange with the concessionaire what you have given him, what you can give him in his name - that is, in a manner regulated with the Republic of Austria. So he won't pay more concessions than he can afford.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u216	Try to arrange this outside the session. Branko Kelemina has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, even the distinguished Minister! Although at this very moment I also received a written answer to this part of the question that I was about to ask today. Although I have only asked this question on Friday, today I see that the answer is already here. Or I just asked this question on Friday at the parliamentary group. Otherwise, the question is: Why is the right of local communities and municipalities to give their consent to set up base stations for mobile phones and telephones? Although you have answered here or perhaps your representatives, all that you have said does not really hold or hold much of it. It is definitely true that in the last two years, and especially last year, a huge amount of illegal construction of mobile phone base stations has taken place and that then the Ministry, which has the exclusive right to grant building permits to these facilities, has legalised these facilities. Of course, you are here now, including with this letter and with the answer to my question, answered what is, of course, to be taken into account, and so on. But it's obviously true, and it turns out that not even local communities, but sometimes we had these rights, but on the municipal councils we discussed this and we also gave consent to some mobile phone operators about two years ago, three years ago, years if we wanted to set up some kind of mobile phone transmitter, giving the local community no longer the right to do so, because it's all regulated by other acts, changes that we've adopted in the National Assembly, except that some individual, interested, affected citizen could challenge such a building. He can't! This right is simply taken from people. And not just that, Mr. Secretary-General. It happens that such objects are placed in places where the image of the landscape is extremely corrupt, of course, because the best positions are chosen, at the top of the hill and so on. In addition, I say that it is harmful radiation to all those nearby houses, although you prove that this is not true, with various studies and so on. However, I firmly believe that the measurements were not made there, the start of the study was made earlier, for example, for a certain facility for the base station Ivanjkovci. In short, people are deprived of their rights and I ask: When will these rights be returned? Because these facilities were heavily illegally installed. Worst of all, these people or persons who illegally set up these facilities have not been punished. The statute of limitations shall not be imposed within two years of the law on the construction of buildings and penalties. And I want to know: With what right is someone so gravely violating Slovenian legislation, and there is no sanction for this? If you are trying to answer me: When will the right to return to the local communities and citizens so that they can at least give an opinion, agree on whether an object can be built or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. As I have already answered you in an extensive written statement, Mr Kelemin, the fact is that there is some agreement to establish base stations, neither individuals nor the local community, have ever had an automatic community, so they have not been taken away. However, everyone can exercise his or her own interest in being a party to the proceedings. And if he enforces it in accordance with the law, he may participate in this procedure. This does not mean, of course, that an investor of a mobile telephone station who has applied for a building permit will not be able to build it if someone opposes it. It is only to assess the influence and indications of the party in the proceedings and to find that these allegations are unfounded or that the envisaged intervention is in accordance with a spatial act, then the disagreement of any party in the proceedings does not preclude the issue of a building permit. As far as the efficiency of the country in persecuting black construction in the construction of base stations is concerned, I wrote to you in response very precisely how many inspection decisions have been issued, how many such base stations have we even failed, since the inspection has been at least the last year and a half, I can say, very effective in doing so. However, as for the proposals made to the judge for the misdemeanours of black construction, I cannot comment on this, but in fact there are many things out of date, including others, not just these, and we are very dissatisfied with them. I can say this in view of the efforts of our inspection, which makes many proposals there, and it is being implemented a little bit. But this is a judicial branch of government, which I cannot comment on, and I have no data. Well, your question has been more general now, and I have also tried to answer more generally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u221	Yes, look, Mr. Secretary-General. I would just like to draw your attention to a specific case and also to an answer that I am not satisfied with, talk about the fact that measures of punishment were not necessary and so on. But, look, it was about an investor setting up an illegal station in December, I filed an application in January, the inspector took action, gave a mandate that was a 60-day deadline for the removal of the facility, that is to say, it was somewhere until March 12th, from March 12th until July 12th, until you legalized the facility, gave a building permit, had the past three months and had not removed the facility. Nor have they been punished, I am firmly convinced that I have also, say, specifically called Ormož to a court or a judge for offences which said that the matter has not yet been dealt with. And the thing will be established, and it will be left fine in the drawer until it wears off, and it's out of date, and the deadline is two years. And how are there conditions for punishment if they have illegally set up a station? The permit was issued three months after the object had to be removed and the object was not even removed and so on. In short, really. Do you not know all these procedures and what is actually going on in the field? I know that your bureaucrats or the employees who give these decisions, building permits, are doing things according to some rules, some documentation, laws and so on, but the actual situation is probably quite different than it is on the ground. And as far as intervention into space and usurpation of space is concerned, this is unacceptable. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Which is exactly what happens on the ground by setting up these mobile phones. [[...]] I will continue the process and examine this matter to the fullest extent and also propose amending the relevant legislation, because I do not agree with such usurpation of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I'm still giving my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u223	As long as we have judges for offences - and we still have them right now, I think these criminal penalties will come into the hands of the inspector in 2005 - until then, of course, the proposals to the judges for offences are being dealt with. There is, as far as I know, a lot of backlogs, but the fact is that an inspection, which falls within my jurisdiction, I can say that it works very effectively. Here you have information that we removed 18 base stations in the nine months of last year, and six were just before the removal of legalized stations, and the one you are talking about from your own experience is one of these. Given the number of newly installed base stations, I can say that they have been removed by a very significant percentage; in short, that black constructions are not, if they are, an effective inspection. As far as performance or payment for illegal construction is concerned, as I said, this goes into the legal mills and we hope, of course, that the matter will be realized. As quickly as you mentioned - you mentioned the dates as just - but of course this thing is simply not feasible, even if you were more up-to-date with the criminal judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u224	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. He's going to ask the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Tell me if Minister Bohinc is still here. I have two questions, then I'd put the one where I could get an answer first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u226	The second part of the questions will follow. Now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u227	Either way - tell me, I know the Minister of Culture isn't here. Is Minister Bohinc here so he can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u228	I don't see him right now. I expect him anywhere near here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u229	Good. Then there's no one. In fact, it is offensive how we are drawn to asking questions after this hour in order not to give all Members the same opportunity that parliamentary questions begin at such an hour, that it is in a great dilemma in any way whatsoever. Tomorrow I'm going to protest procedurally, now I'm going to say that this farce is going to go away. My oral question to the Minister of Culture, who is the President of the Commission for State Celebrations and Participation in State Affairs, would be in the sense that, in December, I took the initiative to declare the year 2004 as Master's Year. The Master's year is because this year there are four important Master's Jubilee. This is said to have been associated with this Slovenian giant, the first General of the First Slovenian Army to defend the northern border in Styria and Koroška and thereby defend the historic territory without which, in 1991, we would not have the conditions to declare the independent and independent state of Slovenia. I believe that this is an important incentive to consolidate the identity of the Slovenians, strengthen their pride and patriotism. That's why I'm asking about the government's activities and its purposes? I ask the question to strengthen the efforts of those in the government who are aware of the importance and size of Rudolph Maister by means of a public opinion that has so far responded very positively to the initiative. I have not yet received any written reply, but at the same time I have not observed any publicised government activity of this kind. Here are a number of other questions, but, Mr Vice-President, because I cannot get an answer, I say that I am dissatisfied with the answer and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask: how to strengthen the identity of the Slovenians, pride and patriotism through the image of General Rudolph Maister in the Maistre year I proposed. And this value, which we are so lacking, is being discussed in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u230	Comrade Jerovšek, a general discussion is held on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u231	The answer to get - I didn't get it, I'm not satisfied with the answer, I have the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u232	Comrade Jerovšek. I didn't violate the rules of procedure. I let you ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u233	I have made my request clear to you and to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u234	I let you ask a question, according to the rules of procedure. If the Minister or the Minister is absent, a written question will follow within 30 days and your express request will be answered at the next meeting. Thank you very much. There is another question for Members who have already asked the question. Alojz Sok has a question for the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. Tomorrow, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Council of State, will again decide on the law on savagery and hunting. As a result, I think it is very important for the Minister to answer one question about this law. The law provides in its 29th Article for a concessional duty. In the future, hunting organisations that are to obtain a fishing concession on a tender are to pay a concession fee to the State budget, worth between 10 and 50 per cent of the annual income from the game sold. Since everything that hunters use for their own needs is being deducted here, it is clear, of course, that this concession fee will not be essential for the country at this time. This money will not be much, but on the other hand, the country or by this law will take over the payment of payments resulting from the wild. It is said that the State will in future pay all claims for damages, or on behalf of the State, by the Ministry of Agriculture. The law, however, left out one very important area, an area called hunting trophies. I therefore ask the Ministry of Environment and Space: How many game trophies per species have been seized annually in the Republic of Slovenia? What's the value of these trophies? And who will control and use the resources that hunting families receive from the ransom of the trophy game? It seems to me, Mr Minister, that it is very important that you answer this question today, so that we can be satisfied with your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you. It's probably just a misunderstanding. The Law on Wildlife and Hunting is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the information on the existing law, the trophies and all that you ask, has the Ministry of Agriculture. I think it's a misunderstanding. This is a question addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, and I suggest you address it there as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u238	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u239	I can agree with you. It is true, but in Parliament you presented the law in the first reading, and that is why I have asked you this question. And I expect, as you have presented the law, to answer this question, but you can also avoid this question. I know the answer, but I'd like you to answer it. Once again, you've introduced the law here and not the Minister for Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u241	Well, if you know the answer, I don't really know it, because the existing wild and hunting law can only be said that it is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture and that the Ministry has the relevant data. However, as regards the new proposal for a law on savagery and hunting, which is now in the parliamentary procedure, I can only say that the government has defined itself in the first reading of it; this was the government's position, which I have just read here or presented, as could any other government representative who was present at that time in the national assembly, otherwise its implementation is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u242	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor to ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, also to all the ministers who are still present, Members and Members of Parliament! My question is mainly about eliminating agony among employees in the Vrhnika leather industry in Šmartno pri Lithija. I have warned Madam Minister of this matter a year ago. The Ministry or the Ministry then replied that a rehabilitation programme was being prepared and the local community would also be invited to attend. Nothing has happened since this rehabilitation programme or that the local community has been invited to discuss the rehabilitation programme. Most of the workers are still on hold, and 130 workers drive daily from Šmartna na Vrhniko to work. Of course, we could also do this work at home. There have been no neutral expertise in which location, under what conditions, would actually be more rational and efficient leather extraction in our country. The fact is, in this case, the parent seat of the company prevailed in this decision, but this is not the issue. It is more a matter of the concept and attitude of the State towards its property and the treatment of that property. Indeed, there was an interest in the purchase of the plant in Šmartnem from several interested parties, but the management of this company did not decide on the possibility of disinvestment. There were even programmes on the employment opportunities of 200 employees, workers, with new programmes in the existing company, but none of them. I recently read in the Journal that, of course, the country helped. Well, if you didn't help, it'd probably be worse. But I'm asking: Firstly: Does the government, the state, have a comprehensive strategy for the recovery of problems in the leather industry? And second: Is it true that all the personnel set up by the State, because they change almost more or less by the current tape than for the management of this company, that they actually carry out the duties of the owner rightly, called a good master? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u244	Thank you. Madam Minister, I ask for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members and Honourable Member of the Rokavec. The answer would be as follows. It is true, as you said, that we have discussed this possibility and the involvement of people from the local community in the preparation of the recovery plan. The agreement at the Ministry was such, of course, that it remained on the administration and on the people of this company, the IUV Vrhnika, that they would also make this agreement. Well, a restructuring programme was also developed which was prepared in accordance with this Act on rescue and restructuring aid and companies in difficulty in accordance with the provisions of this Act. On the basis of this restructuring programme, this State aid was also then granted, which was only published, amounting to 2.7 billion tolls of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees and 400 million grants for ecological recovery. In addition, resources from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will also be involved in addressing this issue of redundant workers under this restructuring programme, as over- and potentially surplus workers in both textile, leather and footwear industries, where this company is also included, will be allowed to re-qualify or adequately address this problem. I must say that in the restructuring programme under this law, we work in harmony with the Ministry of Labour and the family, in addressing the human resources issues, especially in their higher level training, as well as, of course, the problem of dealing with redundant workers. We work together with this ministry, while for the rest of the financial assistance, we then build on the resources available to the Minister of Economy and the potential of the guarantee, which is the potential of the budget for a certain period. As far as this disinvestment you have been talking about is concerned, I must say that there is also disinvestment in the restructuring programme, because the programme must show how this company will be resolved, namely the sale of the plant in Šmartnom near Lithuania. The estimated value in this respect is also given. As far as State control is concerned, I must say that this is done mainly by the Ministry of Finance, which has its own representative on the IUV d.d. supervisory board, but there is no representative from our ministry. The sales process itself, which is now running somehow, at least after the information and interviews with the minister, and therefore somehow this aid was given in order, of course, to finally have a strategic partner, who would then enhance the competitiveness of this company in other markets, that this process is clearly under way and that it is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. As regards the rescue strategy, as you know, a specific programme has been prepared and has also been implemented in the years 1999 to last year to increase the development capacity of companies in these activities. It is intended primarily to increase the technological and market and human resources skills of companies. I must say that the results measured in productivity show that there has been a reversal and productivity increase in these activities, but of course there are still problems with individual companies and that is why it is [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] The strategy of Slovenia, in accordance with - only possible last sentence - the rules of action in this area also include the provision of state aid and forms of state aid, of course in line with European aid. [[...]] On the one hand, these development aids are in the context of the development of programmes or calls made by different ministries, notably the Ministry of the Economy, and within this specific law for the resolution of firms in difficulty. These are the forms of assistance that we are implementing. At the Ministry we also have a sectoral analysis for this activity, two of which was just submitted, the last of which was from November 2003. We also have since 2002 and, of course, the programming councils, which include trade unions, employers' representatives and the like, where we are leading this common strategy in terms of restructuring these activities that you have been talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u246	Thank you. Also a fellow Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u247	Madam Minister, the matter is very complicated and in fact it also requires a faster solution. The feeling is that there have been gray, dark forces in the IUV for a long time who do not really have an interest in trying to act in the spirit of a good master; at least that is how it feels. I believe that the supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance has certainly not played its part here. The fact is that the country has a majority share in the Vrhnika leather industry, but it is incomprehensible that: How is it possible for managers or board members to operate or carry out brokerage operations for the Vrhnika Leather Industry through their companies? Where's the competitive clause? Indeed, these are questions and, in fact, the birds are already chirping in the branches, that there may be other scenarios here - how to easily arrive, as there have already been cases in this country, at the cost of assets. Here I demand an answer, in particular a solution to what the state will do here. She didn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u248	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Well, I think I will refer this question to the members of the Supervisory Board and ask them to prepare an answer; I will also refer it to the Minister of Finance. I therefore propose that you get a written explanation in this regard because the members of the Supervisory Board have an insight into these matters, and if that is the opinion, it should be determined whether the opinions you have put forward are genuine. I can't do anything else at any given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u250	Thank you. My friend Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, I propose that the National Assembly decide on a proposal for a decision to hold a debate on the Minister's response, in particular because I believe that this question has been unanswered for years now, how the State as the majority owner has served as a good master, and in particular the control over the money the State or the State budget is committed to supporting and resolving the problem which has been present in the leather industry for many years and whose workers are not at fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u252	Thank you for the suggestion. My colleague, Jožef Jerovšek, will ask the Minister for Home Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u253	Dear Mr. Secretary! At this deaf hour, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] from the Institute of the Parliamentary question, which is primarily intended for communication with the public, but now every public is excluded, all journalists are absent, but I ask you very serious questions. [[...]] On the night of January 22rd, in Novi Gorica, inscriptions appeared on the monuments of historical personalities and the nearby elementary school with extremely impatient and xenophobic content and fascist symbols. Let me first of all stress that I strongly condemn the defiance of monuments with fascist symbols, with impatience, with the xenophobia that comes from these inscriptions, and at the same time call upon all citizens of Slovenia not to fall in love with those who are behind this provocation, and with this provocation, we would like to lead the Slovenian into real intolerance. Some of the anarchistic and ultraleviary, dogmatically oriented marginal political groups have been working with all means for more than 90% of Slovenian citizens to plant and attribute national, political and religious intolerance and xenophobia in the vast majority of Slovenian citizens. In order to produce evidence of such accusations they are talking about, in the environments they consider to be the most democratic and left-wing, there are masquerade posters that are intended to create a climate of universal hatred and intolerance in Slovenia and consequently a new division of Slovenians. Of course it's a provocation. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How far is it to find actors in this masquerade action? How did the police stop working on finding the actors? What are the working assumptions of the investigation? What circles do the perpetrators come from? I also ask: Have they detected the perpetrators of a poster action in Ravna with similar content? Is it more than obvious that both cases are linked to the same interest groups and ideological centres behind them? I also ask: Does the government have an answer to why the printed media, except the Diary, has silenced the lubricating action? Has the scenario of the mascara provocation become over-recognizable because only the Diary published a comment in advance on the Mazin documentary of the year? Is the action the answer to the documentary of the year? Then I ask: Is it true that a police investigation is being blocked and initiated because the current policy is aware that the perpetrators come from groups supported by the authorities, which have been widely supported by the authorities and have, for some time, been spreading hysteria about the widespread intolerance and fascistism of the Slovenians? The question that arises in itself - even in you in Koroška, the current questions, Madam Vice-President - are still nothing, and I hope that in the shortest possible time, regardless of the origins and proximity in which the parties belong, you will detect and dissipate these perpetrators.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u254	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u255	You're being rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u256	Turn off the microphone. You get the floor, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament certainly knows that, in the interest of the investigation, the data on the ongoing investigation is neither relevant nor useful to be interpreted in public. Therefore, what are the assumptions of the investigation, what is the plan of this investigation, who are the potential perpetrators and what circles they come from, of course, cannot be made public. This will be done by the competent New York police administration when it assesses that this is in the interest of the investigation and that the public can inform it. I share with you the expectation that this will be as quick as possible, because it is a heinous act of defiance of monuments and of promoting intolerance, for which it is right for the perpetrators to be found and punished as soon as possible. In short, the New York Police Administration on the case of work is gathering notices. Once the evidence is collected to that extent, the appeal will be filed. I hope it's against known perpetrators, otherwise it's against an unknown perpetrator. No one, either by the Ministry or from anywhere else, gives any guidance in this regard from the spheres of policy, and at least by blocking such an investigation. On the contrary, it is in our interest to get to the bottom of this as soon as possible. But it directs this investigation, as usual, the competent state prosecutor's office, and when things are so far away that it will no longer harm the public if we inform the public, it will be the competent police administration or the investigators will do so because it is also their legal duty to do so. That's what we can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u258	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Jerovšek, I'll give you my word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u259	Dear Mr. Secretary. I can't be satisfied with the answer because it should be at such a provocation - I asked you what the assumptions are, it's clearly a provocation and you haven't confirmed it either. The investigation appears to be taking place by as much as possible covering and withdrawing the provocation scenarios. Look, different causes are possible. This year, though, no one has offered to run for office in case Fascism threatens Slovenia. However, it is possible that individual groups want such Messianic activities. Look, another one that's spreading. Does the assumption that the lullaby may even be directed at the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, that he is smart inside the party because he comes from Nova Gorica and has a more sober mind in the matter of deleted in essence? Then I have to ask: Will the police inform the public of the perpetrators even if it turns out they're coming from, say, a subjugation of some government party? Many questions are, these things are spreading, it is more than obvious that someone deliberately wants to push the Slovenes into actually losing judgment to start xenophobia. See, in Novi Gorica herself there is religious intolerance, because on the Vipavska Street in the Rosna Valley there is an object on the Jewish cemetery, which is said to have served for religious purposes, and now there is a buffet. I ask - this is the defiance of the sacramental object, which has already been made for this purpose in the previous regime - that by 1 May at least the local - the mayor comes from your party - stops with this defiance, but not that it is obvious to others throughout Slovenia that they are spreading religious intolerance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u260	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u262	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u263	As long as it concerns the place and the party issues - these are not the things that the Ministry of the Interior could comment on on on behalf of this place. But I can repeat that with all seriousness and responsibility, the police are investigating this case. Talking about different scenarios from your city and from your point of view is of course legitimate, but even if I knew this moment, which of the scenarios is true, I have neither the authority nor the authority to confirm or reject any of these. It is not enough to file a criminal complaint to convince someone that it is more than obvious.This belief, of course, can be cultivated further, but the police, as a law enforcement authority, must present strong evidence to the prosecution that they can draw up the indictment and that is how it will proceed in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u264	Thank you very much. These were questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The questions are exhausted. I am terminating the agenda, given that requests for a discussion on the answer have been made. We will vote on this tomorrow in the framework of the vote. So, I interrupt today's first item of the agenda, today's session, which we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. To the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, I thank you for your cooperation and your answers, and I wish everyone a good night.
