ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! We continue the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Dr Miha Brejc, Ljubo Germič, Janez Janša, Miran Jerič, mag. Blaž Kavčič, Jožef Kavtičnik, Ivan Kevtič, Maximiljan Lavrinc, Peter Levič, Dorian Marcič, Yuri Malovrev, Franc Čebulj and Sašo Pece. We're moving on to 16. POINT OF THE DAY - CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CASTAR REVENUE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Milojka Kolar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u2	What a lovely greeting, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the cadastral income law. The law does not provide a solution for a comprehensive new methodology, but attempts, for a transitional period, to ensure that the existing system can be operationalised to the extent possible on its basis in the following year, until the new methodology is fully developed, as realistically and as rapidly as possible, to coordinate cadastral income with real income and agricultural production conditions. A new methodology has already been launched on the basis of a call for a comprehensive proposal to modernise the existing process for the valorisation of cadastral income, already this year and a new methodology will be developed in 2005. On this basis a new, comprehensive law will also be drawn up, a special service will be set up to carry out these tasks regularly and a new identification of cadastral income on new foundations will be carried out in 2006. In the meantime, changes in the amount of market income in agriculture, the valorisation of individual cadastral cultures, or even a new conversion based on the existing methodology, should be followed as quickly as possible under the existing law. However, changes are needed in order to make this adaptation possible. Therefore, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is responsible for the professional starting points, methodology and guidance, we have prepared the amendments and additions that are before you. These changes include: for the first time, updating the accounting of depreciation as a cost of agricultural production; it is also explicitly stated that cadastral income may be negative for individual cadastral cultures; further, it allows valorisation in cases where income changes occur due to changes in production technology; significantly reduces the criterion for compulsory valorisation from 50 % to 3 % price change; then, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Finance as the competent authorities for initiating the process of valorisation or the new determination of cadastral income; further, the changes lay down the powers to carry out this procedure, instead of the existing numerous municipal commissions, these powers are allocated to the commission which will act on a national basis, it is said to the republican level, which will result in greater equality and the effectiveness of this determination. Furthermore, the power to determine the approval of cadastral income scales shall be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, finally, the information on cadastral income shall be re-assigned to parcels through the cadastral cadastral. The proposed amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Act therefore simplify the process of determining cadastral income and valorisation by establishing a single expert commission to identify it and by certifying the calculations in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I propose that this proposal for a law on amendments and additions be adopted by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you for this supplementary explanation. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. I give the floor to Mrs Lidija Majnik for her position - she apologizes, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is ready to submit the report of the parent working body. The word is Cyril Pucko, chairman of the committee, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent of the labour force, has examined this proposal of the law and, after discussion, it is imperative that the price changes of agricultural products change the rate when the cadastral income is being valorised. Thus, we have amended Article 4 in the sense that this valorisation is carried out or carried out if the modified agricultural and forest products, production technologies or material costs are changed, for those reasons, for an individual cadastral culture at the level of the whole country by at least 3%. This means that we have also followed appropriate valorisations in all other areas and thus have actually brought the calculation of cadastral income closer to the actual state of the sector. Dear colleagues, I suggest you support the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Committee on Financial Reports and Monetary Policy. We are now moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Lidija Majnik gets the text for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We simplify the procedure for the identification and valorisation of cadastral income by amending and supplementing the law on the determination of cadastral income, opening up the possibility of annual adjustment of height for individual cultures according to market changes, establishing the possibility of determining the negative amount of cadastral income, only the implementation of the procedure, and transferring the findings to the Republic Commission. In the LDS Group of Members, I also support the provision that the data on cadastral income should be reintroduced and kept in a land cadastral manner as specified for geodetic data. We are aware that the Committee on Finance has agreed that the dose or valorisation of the cadastral income will be carried out every time the criterion of 3% is exceeded, as agriculture is aligned with other areas. However, this proposal is also in line with the existing European criteria, where we have been for a month and a half. We will also support the law in the LDS Group of Members because it fulfils the commitment that was made to farmers' unions during the preparation and negotiation of this law at the time of the adoption of the Income Act. The cadastral income will be redefined by a new procedure and methodology that will redefine the criteria and procedures for the calculation of cadastral income and new scales for all cadastral districts to the greatest extent possible to approximate the real state of agriculture and eliminate the large imbalances between the levels of cadastral income for individual cultures, which have always and only increased since 1988. That's why we're going to support the law in the House of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to Master Andre the Visiak. Is there anyone else? Leopold Grošelj has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! If you'll excuse me, I have to change [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u9	Franci Rokavec gets the floor for the position of the Group of Members. I thought you were done with your attitude, so I'm sorry to keep you going.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u10	I won't read it all. Thank you very much. The proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Identification of Cadastrian Income clearly defines what catastrian income is. If, of course, we take this definition into account, then we can find that cadastral income as a difference is an intermediate value, processing, estimated at market or buying-in prices and average material costs. The catastrophe income therefore assesses the market income in agriculture. Accordingly, the cadastral income is also, of course, the category under which, of course, natural persons who carry out this agricultural activity use for a variety of purposes, as stated in this amendment of the law, either to obtain certain rights in the field of social rights, including pension and disability insurance, and certain other rights which they may exercise. It is also true that the current system for the determination of cadastral income by law has already been adopted in 1976 to re-examine in 1988, but not since then, although we do know that at that time we were extremely high in inflation and did not approach the real evaluation of cadastral income, it is true that the work which is then recognised or also not set out to do so. Therefore, of course, we can see that this problem has also been under-estimated - the cadastral income - that it has also been up to date in recent years. Well, taking into account only this proposed amendment to the Income Act, that other incomes that only this one receives in connection with carrying out agricultural and forestry activities are considered among the incomes or incomes of the farm, the problem of the unrealistic level of cadastral income has become even more acute. Last but not least, we have also adopted the Income Act, which comes into force since 1.1.2005, and I think there is a type of subsidy revenue here, which, of course, consists of the appropriate value for determining the corresponding liabilities. Of course, if we also find out from this, I think it is necessary to approach the list of relevant changes, especially given that it will still remain, that the data on cadastral culture and also of the cadastral class will continue to include this in the earth cadastral cadastral system, which means that the relevant grounds for amending this law are provided. With regard to the definitions of about Article 4, I must say that we also support the position of the Committee in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, because, last but not least, we find that these solutions are also in line with the Maastricht criterion, so that the assessment of the cadastral income is expected to be carried out no more than every year, provided that the criterion is exceeded. We know that the proposal for 3%, which also complies with the existing European criterion, is foreseen for inflation. We will therefore fully support this amendment of the law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thanks, buddy Groschel. I apologize for the earlier speedy completion of your word. Franci Rokavec now has the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the amended proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Act is more or less beautiful in nature, and, of course, it follows from the government's commitment, especially from the knowledge that the current Cadastrian Income Act has been ineffective. However, in this regard, we draw attention to the key issue in the Group of Members: that a comprehensive assessment of the current level of cadastral income was not made before the proposed amendments. Indeed, the fact is that in all current years, unless agricultural crop prices have changed by more than 50%, the cadastral income has not increased or decreased. In Slovenia, we have experienced a trend towards a significant reduction in agricultural crop prices over the last 10 years, but the cadastral income has increased. On this basis and on this basis, of course, at this point, we will do nothing but allow the possibility in Article 4, which we welcome, of course, to allow for a faster flexibility of adaptation, the formation of the height of the cadastral income or in a positive direction or in a negative direction. In doing so, however, we note that the key drawback of the current cadastral income is that this comprehensive analysis has not been carried out. In particular, the Ministry of Finance argued that the present cadastral income does not include subsidies, nor does it hold back. According to our assessment, the present cadastral income includes subsidies, mainly from a simple fact, because the level of cadastral income in these years has not decreased in view of the decrease in agricultural crop prices. However, it followed trends, of course, including subsidies policies where, of course, they have tried to some extent but have not fully compensated for the decline or decrease in agricultural crop prices. Therefore, we believe that this is a major error that will not contribute to any improvement in this area, but will lead to a comprehensive analysis of the state of cadastral income at this time, which will, of course, be more taxed in the future than in actual terms of agricultural crop prices and income situation. Therefore, we will not support such a proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Alojz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u14	Dear Presidents, representatives of the government, fellow Members and fellow Members! The existing cadastral income law was adopted in 1976, which means that it still bears the designation "Official Gazette of the SRS" when the cadastral income was also determined and then there was another change in 1988. The calculation of the cost of land treatment includes, for example, a calculation of the time, of the horse’s introduction, motocultivators, single-axle tractors and tractors of a power of 29 kilowatts. The 1988 calculation also takes into account the breeding of four large livestock per hectare, and today we know that only 1.8 large livestock are allowed in the European Union and that this allowed volume is actually further reduced. In the interim period and later, the cadastral income was only valorized by a factor, most often by a single coefficient for all catastrotic cultures alike. Thus, income relations between cadastral cultures gradually collapsed. Therefore, the existing cadastral income has been unrealised; in some cases, it could be said that it is even unfair. The agricultural situation has changed significantly in recent years, particularly in terms of falling prices and rising material costs. If we are to achieve equal or more transparent tax burden on individual taxpayers, we must first address the open issue of methodology and the ongoing determination of cadastral income, which would assess the market income on the basis of data on the actual use of agricultural and forestry land. The law, which is before us and which the government has promised to adopt the Income Act, does not provide an answer in this part, as regards methodology, but merely gives an indication that the government will only draw up this methodology on the basis of the law. In fact, the only news in this law is that it introduces valorisation, with costs rising above 3%. In our view, in the opinion of New Slovenia, a completely new law on the determination of cadastral income should be adopted, because, as I have already said, the government is just preparing a methodology. However, if we want cadastral income to get as close as possible to the real situation in agriculture, these criteria should, therefore, be determined even by individual areas. However, we wonder if it is even possible to do so and achieve it. Because I'm a small farmer myself, I think there's going to be a lot of trouble. Agriculture is a roofless factory and agricultural conditions change year after year. So last year we witnessed a catastrophic drought, and this year the situation is reversed and the situation is different and, therefore, according to this situation, we should recalculate or change the methodology each year. For these reasons, we have proposed in Novi Slovenija, on the very debate on tax reform, a different approach to taxation in agriculture. We have proposed that only in Slovenia is the taxation of agriculture, as regulated in us comparable to neighbouring European countries, for example in Austria and Italy. For agriculture, it would certainly be necessary - we are still convinced of this, and if we ever have this option, we will also arrange matters this way - to apply two or three forms of taxation. First, it would be advisable to introduce flat-rate taxation, i.e. income tax on the basis of existing cadastral income. Such a form would actually assess income for each culture individually. The assessment of income or cadastral income should be recalculated and adjusted annually to land use types. I'll cut it short. The second form was actual income, i.e. actual income tax. This is for those larger farms and for those who are engaged in complementary activities. They could then also manage a simple bookkeeping and therefore deduct in the tax forecast one part of the standard costs. We suggest that this be 150%. And then there's the third form. This is for those large agricultural companies that act as shares companies, which would also somehow be taxed on actual income. Such a form would make sense, everything else we see, it goes in this direction that Slovenian agriculture will fail even more and that, due to the senseless inclusion of subsidies among the taxable sources, many who are still farmers will cancel it and will, of course, be even larger in the Slovenian agricultural area than it is at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia and Marko Diaci has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cadastrian Income Act, which is before us today, is in our opinion necessary for a thorough overhaul, since the cadastral income is such an important category and affects the budget of individuals and families that it simply does not go flat-rate. In this proposal, which is before us, it is only minor corrections, which are important, but do not substantially change or follow the situation on the ground. Procedures should be developed and the methodology redefined to redefine the criteria and procedures for calculating cadastral income, which is essentially a flat-rate income assessment. However, the objective should be to bring this flat-rate income closer to the real situation in agriculture and on the ground. In this sense, this proposal for a law other than a negative cadastral income brings nothing new. It is only about adapting the existing system, whose monitoring of changes in the structure and also the price of agricultural products is questionable. Agriculture, of course, depends largely on individual natural circumstances, including time. Last year it was drought and experts proposed restructuring of production to premurk farmers, for example in watermelons. Given that it is such a rainy year this year, we can expect these strong experts to propose, in view of the large quantities of rain, for example, the cultivation of rice. It is also interesting to note in Article 4 of the bill that the valorisation of cadastral income can be carried out if the prices of agricultural and forest products change, the production technology or material costs, but that the cadastral income for each cadastral culture at the level of the Republic of Slovenia should be changed by at least 3% for those reasons. Where and on what basis is this number 3? In the basic proposal of the Government, this number was at least 10%. The argument that this number is related to the Maastricht criteria is not sustainable because it is a typical example of administrative determination, which should be based on simulations with changes in individual parameters, to see how each change affects both taxpayers and the public sector balance sheet, on which the change in cadastral income also has an impact. We are also not sure that the best solution is the centralisation of the Commission, which is supposed to draw up the draft cadastral income scales for all the cadastral regions. Slovenia is very different according to the quality of the land, the configuration of the terrain and the conditions for individual agricultural and forestry activities, so we believe that nothing would be wrong if these cadastral income scales were prepared by the regional commissions on cadastral regions or at least by regions and that experts from different fields, particularly in the field of agro-economy, would participate in them. This is the only way to get closer to the reality of the cadastral income scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 9.6.2004. In the review, you have only one amendment to Article 4, or 7.a, the basic article of the law and I am opening the debate. Who wants to discuss this amendment? Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Since I was running out of time to present my position earlier, I will once again listen to the difficult situation in Slovenian agriculture, as I have done several times in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u19	But with regard to the amendment, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u20	I know, I know, I'll get to the amendment. So, I have 10 minutes of time, the president, and I can, of course, use this time in a slightly broader explanation of this amendment, if you'll allow me. So we find that the price-cost ratios in agriculture have deteriorated significantly in recent years. While on the one hand the prices of repromaterials increased very rapidly and on the average they increased by 140% over the last three years, on the other hand the prices of agricultural products decreased significantly, the biggest drop was recorded in 1998, 1999 and, of course, this price drop continues. At present, we are witnessing the major problems that are taking place in our public, how much to reduce milk prices, it is said, in one of the most important agricultural products in our agriculture, in our livestock industry. Here I already think that my colleague Rokavec, that I will not repeat, once said an analysis of what the price of wheat was in 1995, what it was then in 2002, and that despite the added subsidy, the price decreased by 4 euros in real terms. So, I am saying this in order to try again to convince government representatives how pointless such a form of taxation is when you included ECO 0 subsidies in this system, taxable, and when you did not foresee that, in fact, given the structure of agricultural production and the smallness of our farms, you would continue to maintain this flat-rate form of taxation after the cadastral income, as the neighbouring Austria knows. I insist - and, President, I will also say about the magnetogram, because it is good that we now have this system, which also notes everything anyone is saying, that one day we will be able to say, "We have warned the government that the trend of decay and growth will continue." Indeed, today many people in agriculture are practically engaged in complementary activities. The farm doesn't give them a chance to survive, so they go to work and they work, and they don't know that they're producing something else or that they're often easy because as Slovenians they're bound to what they inherited from their parents and they're committed to doing it. This law, which we have before us, with the exception of this 3% valorisation, of some cosmetic correction, brings nothing because it says that the methodology for determining the actual, real assessment will only be adopted, and at this point we do not know what it will be like. I said before that if I wanted to be real, it should be made by areas because the conditions of farming in various parts of this small Slovenia are extremely different; they are not nearly the same in the coastal part of the situation that prevails in Pomurje. I mentioned earlier that last year farmers met with catastrophic drought everywhere, and this year the matter is completely different - they are faced with problems with too much rain, too much moisture and have thus come under very different conditions in agriculture. And he can understand that, and only he who encounters it knows it. I'll just give you a case, if you don't mind. I went to see someone who makes peaches. Last year, he said, "I had no problem with this production. The crop was beautiful. It was fantastic." He says, but this year, I don't know if I'm going to save the trees. That's how the diseases attack them because of the high humidity and the low temperatures. And he says, the fallout will be next year, no matter what the weather conditions will be, very, very big, because I can barely save myself from being scurvy to protect these plants. Can you include this in this methodology? You can't. Or if every year you have some evaluation boards going out on the ground to evaluate and serve enormously because of this large administration. But, unfortunately, this was not enough for Minister Marble to prove that such a form of taxation was not appropriate for agriculture. Of course, it is still possible to correct this matter. Besides, I don't think this government is going to fix it. This government has, for example, intimidated students, but it is not afraid of farmers, because there are very few because there are 3% of them and because they will not come here, to Parliament, to throw granite cubes, as students have done. She got scared in college. And despite the fact that we have written down that there is no referendum in financial laws, it has frightened those thousands of signatures and has immediately promised "we will change the law on income" and this change has already been announced. So because they represent some real and potential power - forgive me, I have to say this, but this is not the principle of running the country, this is adapting to some current situation, which, of course, cannot mean any real direction in the management of this country. And now, why did we suggest that it would only make sense to decide that this valorisation would be done at 5%, because if we went to 3%, then it would seem that this bureaucratic apparatus would be this valorisation, which in the final phase would not mean much. What farmers need is a methodology, a new definition of cadastral income for individual cultures and areas; these 3% or 5% do not mean anything essential. And if we stay at 3%, because inflation, of course, is going to be higher than 3% below 5%, we're going to have to do this every year. However, if we accepted 5% and I think that this was also proposed by the farmers' union, in fact, I would say administrative measures would be avoided and farmers would somehow, even if you stayed under this legislation, the income law would be easier to predict whether a change would be made in that year or not, or would be easier to predict what that would mean in their final taxation, because, of course, it could mean very little that some farmer's family, I don't know, would lose some social right, such as the right to a scholarship - only if the price went up for one thousand, would they lose the right to a scholarship. So it seems to us for several reasons that it would be more reasonable to use this valorisation criterion at 5% than at 3%. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is French Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Well, there's a lot of things a fellow Sok has said. However, the first question is in particular that a review of the situation has not been carried out. And since a review of the situation has not been carried out, it is only a so-called fashion patch of this law, which will not have objective and real effects. Once again, I absolutely cannot agree with the conclusion that the current level of cadastral income is one that does not cover the subsidy. How can you say that? In fact, if all the calculations have shown and credible institutions in this country that subsidies have not covered the loss of agricultural crop prices in the last ten years. It's literally an unfair taxation of farmers. It's a criminal tax! And instead of making a comprehensive audit, because of a promise made by the Income Act to amend the Cadastrian Income Act as soon as possible, this problem is being patched up by force. However, this problem is not resolved because a revision of the existing situation is not made. That's what I'm saying again. And since this audit has not been carried out, then these solutions no longer mean much or less. They can mean greater flexibility because all powers are transferred to the government or the competent ministries. However, this should also be asked in Article 4 what is meant by the increase in agricultural crop prices or their fall or material costs; or in a given year or, of course, price rises or price decreases, when this increase and fall of up to 3 or 5%, of course. If it is meant in a given year, then I am certainly leaning towards a solution of 3%, because then there is a greater likelihood that there will be a more optimal solution to the adoption of an objective income situation in agriculture, if this is understood of course than every year. This is not evident from the marriage text. However, I agree with the warning given by Comrade Sok that at this point such a determination is from 5% to 3%, of course even greater bureaucracy. That's absolutely right. On this basis, of course, the level of cadastral income is likely to change each year, as the situation in Slovenia is, of course, likely to be in a negative direction. But the problem for me to go back is, in particular, the wrong starting point, because the government claims, as well as the ministry, that, of course, the height of the cadastral income at this point does not include subsidies, which is not true. Most of the cadastral income of the present, existing, has not fallen in the last 10 years, has fallen only in the last year or vice versa: it has increased by more than 100% and agricultural crop prices have fallen. And all the calculations clearly show that the subsidies did not cover the loss of agricultural crop prices. And I think it's basically a flawed concept, but it won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u23	Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, this is the continuation of the sad and strange story that we are witnessing in a four-year term when no one, no government, no national assembly, no Members, who we are sitting here unaware or unaware of, have been able to detect the seriousness of the situation in the field of agriculture. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain that in the last two months we are facing just two new taxes in the field of agriculture. We have taken seriously the consequences of the inclusion of direct subsidies, direct payments in the field of agriculture in income, and at that time also pointed out the unrealistic charging of flat-rate taxes, which is cadastral income in essence. At that time, you government representatives and representatives of the coalition promised that there would be a major reform, a radical amendment to the Cadastrian Income Act. The legal proposal, or the material that we have before us, points to the "rootity" - in the pronunciation - of these changes. Nothing, listen, nothing important has changed here! As if you do not see the daily decline of 8 farms, that the growth trend, which is aimed at the essence of the operation of our Slovenian agricultural policy, continues. We have done nothing in this area, but you, as I will say, are continuing to impose some new, incomprehensible tax burdens on agriculture, which literally means that we will accelerate negative trends in agriculture. We'll speed them up. Over-the-counter standardisation, over-administrative administration - I have already warned several times in this National Assembly that in ten years the number of employees in the Ministry of Agriculture will increase from 90 to 900, along with the army of 1,500 others and other such or other advisers active in the field of agriculture. In doing so, it is particularly important to stress that we are confronted with the incomprehensible and without the number of superstandards adopted by the Government and this National Assembly over the past four years, which are totally unacceptable and which place Slovenian agriculture in a totally uncomparable position with neighbouring countries. I think or don't understand how you don't realize that it's impossible to farm, it's impossible to compare with other farmers in the European Union as long as we enforce such nonsense as a medical certificate in internal traffic, as long as we suffer and allow the cost of slaughtering bovine animals on our heads to be 8 to 10 times more expensive than in neighbouring countries. Look, these are things that just can't take it. For a joke to all agrarian economists who find that none of the agricultural products generates income. I wonder what these agrarian economists are like if you, who are paying them, directly or indirectly, do not believe them and, in mocking these agrarian economists, are imposing new and new tax burdens on agriculture. Sadly, what consequences will all of this have? You can see it, but you can see it. Looks like we're only gonna land in some urban areas, but everything else is gonna be cool, and it's gonna be healed, and it's gonna be some weird forest. If you have this in front of your eyes, if this is your goal, then please continue, I will strongly oppose these changes to the Cadastrian Income Act, regardless of whether there are any corrections, my vote against it will be against mainly because nothing significant in the field of cadastrian income charging has changed because you do not want to change anything essential, you do not want to see how criminal taxation of farmers is charged in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? Madam Secretary of State, please, I'll give it to you and then I'll give it to Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u26	I apologize, but the debate on Article 4 has been said in the meantime, and I will try to respond very briefly. In fact, all the debaters have found that the problem is methodology or more specifically, this is a sub-law called a directive on the identification and valorisation of cadastral income. And you debated and talked about the criteria of this instruction, or methodology, which is not even the legal substance of the cadastral income law. And it can't be and it's not the substance of these changes, either this law or the existing one. This is said, we are talking about something that we are essentially laying the groundwork for with these amendments to the law: for the first time, because the criteria for recalculation and determination of cadastral income are substantially changing in terms of rising or rising prices. I say that we are talking here about the rise in prices of three percent per year, it is said that current data will identify this cadastral income every year and compare the prices of this year to the previous year. And of course, this is why only the Cadastrian Income Act, which will be the basis for us to be in September or, if I read Article 12, to you, the Ministry of Agriculture is competent to prescribe these instructions. We, together with the Ministry of Agriculture in September, will change these guidelines, or if you want a methodology that is a sub-law that the government will adopt, where both the actual market conditions of production will be taken into account, both on the cost side and on the revenue side - what the debaters have identified. It is said that it is wrong to debate in essence now something that is not the subject of these amendments to the Ocatastrian Income Act, because this is the subject of this sub-legislative act, because these changes to these calculations are already being prepared. It's for the first time. Secondly, analyses were made by the cadastral cultures. Today, we know that the overestimated cadastral income on crops is in the fields, but that it is underestimated on forests and grasslands. I think those who do this know it well. Finally, the Income Act gives all three tax options that honourable Member Sok has stated: flat-rate taxation, real income monitoring, bookkeeping and the same for all agricultural companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The colleagues you have discussed so far have indeed had a general debate. Now we will only allow the debate on the amendment because that is the way it is in the rules of procedure and allow me to continue to do so. Comrade Sok, you have the floor, but the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u28	Okay, otherwise I was going to answer to Mrs. Secretary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u29	There is no more general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u30	If you do not allow it, we are already used to it in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u31	No, I won't, it's the rules of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u32	I know, we are already used to it in this House. So I'd like to touch that 3% again. I want to know - because in principle, everyone who is employed today can somehow calculate their income - whether a farmer can do so in this valorisation. Because if he can't figure it out in advance, then what I was talking about might happen. That's what I'm saying on the basis of experience. Someone came to my office who had received 34,000 meetings, and when he was added to the meeting, he exceeded the award of the scholarship. That's why my daughter lost her scholarship. And what does that mean, then, 34,000? If he were able to calculate in advance, he would probably be able to give up these 34 thousand slightly and it would be more reasonable to give up than for a daughter studying outside the home country to lose her right to a scholarship on the basis of such a banal sum. And that's what I'm wondering, what's going to happen to this 3% if this changes every year - I'm assuming that the price increase is going to be higher than 3%, because inflation is probably going to be more than 3% in our country for a while - what's that going to mean for it? I may be misthinking this because I am not a financier, an economist, but in the New Slovenia Group we have just proposed 5% that it should not change every year. Otherwise, I agree with what my colleague Rokavec said that we should if we want to get as close to reality as possible. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] Even if necessary, every year. [[...]] But once again, will he be able to calculate in advance and anticipate his tax obligations and the other consequences that follow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u34	Yeah, yeah. Especially because the Secretary of State hasn't responded to my thoughts. Is the change of 3 or 5%, or is it cumulative, when this change occurs to 3 or 5% of the price of agricultural crops or production technology or material costs? This is also a very important issue with regard to decision-making on this amendment. On the other hand, I do not believe that that answer to the Secretary of State does not hold up so that all three options can be used by the farms. That's not true. In the case of our, mostly small farms, the small farm in question cannot be used to manage simplified bookkeeping. Slovenia has most of the so-called "shiht" farms, as we call them - the job and then it processes next to the job. I don't think we can just walk past that fact. And it is these farms that will experience the most changes under the new Income Act, in addition to, of course, those large farms. That's the problem. And since we have not performed a comprehensive audit on the current situation regarding the height of the cadastral income, my assessment shows that we have an unrealistic base that will have a negative impact on the taxation of farmers. I think that's a major problem. Would you really ask for an answer to this, does it mean annual or, of course, cumulative valorisation, when it comes to 3% and 5%, of course? Thank you. Because this is not clear from the marriage text.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State, can we really get an answer to this question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u36	Look, I think the legal text is clear: if it were commutative, it would be commutative. Mr Rokavec, please, I think I have already said very clearly that this is an annual growth of 5% and 3%, as in the amended proposal or as this amendment is now. I think this is very clear and, if I am allowed to reply yet, employment is not an obstacle to the management of accounting for agricultural activities. By still very crediblely stating that all three options for managing or taxing farms are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u37	My friend Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u38	Just a quick comment. All is well and well that employment is not an obstacle to keeping a permanent bookkeeping, but people will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you. May I close the debate on the amendment to Article 4? And we'll move on to the vote on the amendment. Please, colleagues and colleagues who are nearby to come to the hall to see if your voting devices are okay to operate. We will move to a decision on the amendment to Article 4 of the New Slovenia Group. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment to Article 4, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're too few in the hall. I will repeat the vote. To know what we are deciding, we are voting on the only amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4 of the proposed law. We're re-voting. We're voting. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. We'll be voting for the third time in ten minutes. So, 11:06 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u40	Please, if you will take your seats, where you will vote. Yeah. I don't think anyone would press another button. My friend Kangler. May I have your attention, please? For the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting. I am terminating the vote, the voting device with my colleague Kangler now working, and the second is to see that there will be no similar case. We're voting. We do not repeat, we vote because the voting device has not worked before and has raised its hand. There are 50 of us present, 17 votes against 31. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and thus the second reading in the context of the reduced procedure. Therefore, since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that neither the legislature nor the government have informed me that the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. By 11:55, I interrupt the work of the National Assembly when we move on to the next item - also a secret vote. Thank you for your cooperation with the government, the secretary of state and you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u41	Good bye to all of you! Let's get back to work. We're moving on to 30. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will first take note of the notification of the resignation of a Member from the office of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances and under this item of the agenda: a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia and proposals by the Judicial Council for the election of candidates for judicial office; the assembly will also take note of the resignation of Mr Igor Šoltes, Commissioner for Access to Public Information. We are moving on to a debate and decision on individual proposals, first of all to a notice of resignation from the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. Mr Andrej Bajuk sent a written statement of resignation on 21.5.2004 as President of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance. Mr Bajuk could explain his resignation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Just Dr. Bayuk. No, I'm afraid that's not possible. In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, I note that the assembly was informed of the following finding: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Dr. Andrej Bajuk 21.5.2004 has made a declaration of resignation from the office of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, and therefore, as of today, his office is terminated." Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Member, Dr Andrey Bajuk, for performing this function. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr Sok, the National Assembly does not vote at this point in the agenda, just take note of Dr Andrey Bajuk's resignation from his recent position. I should explain my own reasons; I should, but it is not necessarily because we all got the reasons on the bench in writing for his resignation. So everything's in place. Anything more would not be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a candidate list by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia! On the basis of Article 20 of the Law on Courts and Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly called for elections for five members of the Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly, i.e. for today, 17 June 2004. On the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 20, paragraph 4, and Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Courts of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a candidate list for members of the Judicial Council, proposing to elect five members of the six proposed candidates. These are: Natasa Belopavlovich, Prof. Albin Igličar, Prof. Dr. Janez Kranjc, Mr. Ivan Makuc, Mrs Kati Mininchič and Mr Rudolf Shelih. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the Council, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented to us by Mr Školč, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr. Sušnik, would you like to present? No, no, no. Neither did Mr. Squirrel. The position of the New Slovenia Group? No, no, no. Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I ask those of you who have been reported to the debate - does anyone want a word? Not at all. Thank you very much. So I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to the vote. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the national assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, composed of the chairmen and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel who are voting, namely, Mrs Rudolf Moge, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri and Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič, and I am also a member of this committee as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? No, no, no. So can we move on to a decision on the composition of the commission? We vote on the composition of the commission. We're voting. Unfortunately, the first vote was not successful. I also invite Members of Parliament and Members who are in the vicinity to attend. We're angry in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. We've had enough in the hall. Secondly, we are voting on a proposal to elect a commission in the proposed composition. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members shall be given a vote by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. This is the way it is voted - now I ask for your attention - to surround the number before the name of the candidate for which it is voted. He's voting for five candidates. Therefore, a voice containing more than five numbers before the names of the proposed candidates will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 196 of the Rules of Procedure, those five candidates for whom the majority of Members who cast the votes in force will be elected and will receive the maximum number of votes. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member of Parliament and Members who will assist me in the voting so that they can come forward in room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 12.15 a.m., which is in ten minutes, and will take up to 12.30 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to help me gather in room 217. We'll continue the session ten minutes to 13 hours at 12.50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u42	Your Honor! We continue the meeting and the adjournment of the proposal for a candidate list by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of members of the Judicial Council. I will introduce you to the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the five members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 17 June 2004. 55 ballots were distributed, 55 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid and 54 were valid. The number of votes received by candidate number 1, Mrs Nataša Belopavlovič, is 42. The number of votes received by candidate number 2, Prof. Dr. Albin Iglicar, is 49. The number of votes received by the candidate under order number 3, Prof. Dr. Janez Kranjc, is 50. The number of votes received by candidate number 4, Mr Ivan Makuc, is 46. The number of votes received by candidate number 5, Mrs Kati Mininčič, is 44. The number of votes received by candidate number 6, Mr Rudolf Shelih, is 25. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the majority of the votes cast by Members and Members who gave valid votes were as follows: Mrs Nataša Belopavlovič, Prof. Dr. Albin Igličar, Prof. Dr. Janez Kranjc, Mr. Ivan Makuc and Mrs Kati Minčič. Members or members shall be elected for a period of five years. To the members of the judicial council whom we have elected, I sincerely congratulate them, and I wish them much success in carrying out their duties! At the same time, I take this opportunity to thank the members of the Judicial Council for their work, whose term of office expires at the end of this month, especially the three presidents in this mandate, Dr Alexei Flower, Dr Milet Dolenjec and Mrs Maja Tratnik. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election to the judicial function of Mr Bogdan Greif as Judge of the Supreme Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Bogdan Greif to the judicial seat of the higher judge at the Supreme Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I cordially invite Members of Parliament and Members who are nearby. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. No other vote was successful and we will therefore vote in accordance with Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure at 1 p.m. and 20 minutes. At 13:00 and 20 minutes, we are voting on the proposal for a decision for a third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u43	Your Honor! We will continue to vote for the third time on the proposal for a decision on the election to judicial office, Mr Bogdan Greif, as the High Court of Justice in the Supreme Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are taking the opportunity to take note of Mr Igor Šoltes, the Commissioner for Access to Public Information. On 26.5.2004, the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, Mr Igor Soltes, forwarded a statement to the National Assembly on 26.5.2004 that he resigned from that function. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the national assembly that, pursuant to Article 29(2) of the Act on Access to Information of a Public Type and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following finding shall be taken into account: "The National Assembly shall note that the Commissioner for Access to Information of a Public Type, Mr Igor Scholtes, has informed the National Assembly that he is withdrawing from the function of the Ombudsman for Access to Information of a Public Type since he took office on 1 June 2004 which is not compatible with the function of the Ombudsman for access to information of a public nature." On this basis, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Public Information Access Act and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 31 May 2004, the Ombudsman’s function of access to information of a public nature has ceased. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is to be considered PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE NOTATION LAW - Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I call on the representative of the Government, the State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u44	Dear Vice President! Dear Members, the honourable Members have a nice greeting! The Notariat Act was passed in 1995 in order to increase the legal security of our citizens, but unfortunately recent events have shown that this is not the case. I wouldn't have mentioned any more about this. The government considered that because notaries and notaries did not strictly respect the law, certain things in the law needed to be amended or amended. The amendments to the law go primarily in the following direction, in order to increase the powers of the State, that is to say, through the Ministry of Justice, because, after the law currently in force, which comes from an ideal position when notaries are supposed to carry out their tasks properly and at a high professional level, we find that this supervision by the Chamber of State is not appropriate. I can confirm this with regard to the Zbiljski Gaj case, where the Ministry of Justice and the Notary Chamber were initially located on different coasts. The Ministry was of the opinion that things were questionable about certain infringements, while the Notary Chamber was of a different opinion. Well, later it turned out that we were right, but now the current regime does not allow the Ministry of Justice to look directly into the files, into the work of notary offices. Therefore, in this law we introduce this competence of the Ministry, so that it can exercise direct control over the work of the Notary Chambers. We are also changing the way notaries are appointed. Following the current regulation, the Minister appointed a notary on the proposal of the Notary Chamber. We now propose that the Minister appoints a notary according to a preliminary opinion he receives from the Notary Chamber, so that he is not bound by the proposal of the Notary Chamber. We further strengthen responsibility, especially the responsibility of notaries, in the way that we also foresee the worst disciplinary sanctions, this is the deprivation of the right to perform a notary service. Now the law in force doesn't know that. You know that there is a person of public trust in the inside, and it would probably be unacceptable for someone who has committed a larger crime to later, when time runs by and would be rehabilitated, to have the status of a person of public trust. That is why we believe that this worst disciplinary violation must also be instituted. Then we change out-of-date hands. Following the current regulation, the statute of the Notary Chamber regulates these outdated deadlines, which we consider unacceptable, which is also too short. So it is a one-year and two-year absolute limitation period, which is inappropriate because usually these irregularities appear later, not as soon as the notary record is written. Therefore, the amendment or amendment of the law proposes that we extend these limitation periods to three and six years. We are also changing the composition of the disciplinary commission. Following the current law, the composition is the following: three notaries and two supreme judges. We are now introducing a solution where members of two notaries, two Supreme Judges and a graduate lawyer with a state legal exam appointed by the Minister responsible for justice. Further, I must say that we are setting out in more detail the alert duty of notaries, although I think that the regulation is good now and it is clear what it should warn the notary about. However, given that the problems related to the interpretation of Article 42, what the notary has to do, we have decided to complement and complement this article in this way, in order to draw attention to the usual known risks. Of course, those risks that cannot be predicted cannot be pointed out. At the same time, we also introduce the so-called electronic notary document, we also introduce a register of wills and, of course, we also provide a legal basis for notaries to be able to obtain extracts from a court register that will have the character of public paper. Of course, we also comply with other regulations. So briefly about these new solutions introduced by the amendment and the addition of this law. The government expects Members to support this law, because we believe that this will achieve even greater legal security for citizens, even though it is my own personal opinion that the law should not be amended if notaries do their job properly. I'm not talking about all the notaries. These are individual cases, but we must also prevent these individual cases if we are to make our country an even more rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you for your additional explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mrs. Lydia Majnik, you have the floor for the committee report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We devoted a few hours of time to the Notariat Act on the Internal Policy Committee, and finally we were convinced that we had cleaned the law and done better than it had done at first. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the proposer, Secretary of State Karel Erjavec, shall provide an additional explanation. Comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service, and representatives of the Notary Chamber also participated. In the law we confirmed the expansion of the network of notaries and wrote that the quorum is on the Notary 20 and no more than 30,000 inhabitants as it has been so far. Since the responsibility of the notary was great, it had to be stated in the law that notaries carried out their professional activities personally, not in the form of notary companies, and therefore only one notary candidate could be employed. Since we have followed the objectives of greater legal certainty of the parties throughout the law, the determination of mandatory behaviour of notaries, the precise definition of the responsibility of the notary, we have written very precisely in the law of jurisdiction. We have provided for the possibility of a greater impact of the ministry, which signs and appoints a notary to the free cities of notaries. Notary candidates, lawyers, judges and professors may become notaries who have a permanent mandate. We have therefore maintained only the opinion of the Notary Chamber in the law, not its consent or binding opinion under the criteria for the fulfilment of the conditions, and for the appointment of the Notary we have also deleted a provision which could put the notary candidates in a more favourable position than all others who have the right to enter this profession. We have also paid special attention to the instruments containing the land-licensing permit. We have decided, with discretion, that only if the document is drawn up by a lawyer or a lawyer, for the sake of the legal certainty of the individual participants, only the two have their liability under the positive rules. With regard to the mandatory content of the mandate to conclude the legal business, we have adopted a regulation setting out the mandatory content of the mandate to conclude the legal business. A notice of the legal consequences of the conclusion of this transaction must be entered on the power to write a notary but not the powers, since in most cases these are not the right parties. In order to verify the signatures and seals deposited at the Notary Chamber, we have written a clearer and more precise provision so that legal entities can do so also through the selected notary, not only at the seat of the Notary Chamber. In the new law, we regulate the central register of wills, which we have not known so far, but this is the subject of a convention. The law now also contains all the arrangements concerning the disciplinary responsibility of notaries, notary candidates and notary trainees. Since it is an infringement of rights, including the right to notariat, this chapter in the Statute of the Notary Chamber had to be transposed into the law itself. With the amendments adopted, the Internal Policy Committee has drawn up a complementary proposal for a law and is proposing to the National Assembly that it adopt such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much for this report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I will give the floor to Irma Pavlinič Krebs for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A lot of evidence has been heard in the Slovenian space that the institutional environment, which the country was able to offer at some point, does not provide sufficient protection for consumers when they enter into legal business and so on. Eyewitnesses were in place, but they are not in place at a time when, of course, everyone, we are trying to do everything in our place to prevent such affairs that we have witnessed. Even by establishing such a marriage environment that may at some point be even stricter than anyone would have wanted. And this proposed amendment to the Notariat Act, which, we must all acknowledge, has been created in response to the Zbiljski Gaj and Orion affair, is primarily aimed at improving the legal security of parties and participants in legal affairs, business in terms of reducing business and other risks. The proposed amendment seeks to achieve this by setting out the mandatory behaviour of notaries more precisely if it has not been sufficiently precise so far. The representative of the Ministry says that it was, but any deviation, which at the same time does not mean disciplinary sanctioning and possible different interpretations, but suggests that in the case of different explanations we are obliged to clearly write it down. By clearly determining the scope of disciplinary responsibility and the types of disciplinary measures against notaries, notary candidates and notary trainees, and also by establishing the possibility of the Ministry of Justice to carry out direct control measures over the operation of notaries. In fact, this part is the most important movement, and the supervision of the work of notaries by the State through the relevant ministry, namely the Ministry of Justice. The novelty also brings news: a warning duty of the notary to the known and normal risks, as legal transactions conclude, a change in the private charter to the notary, an extension of the statutes of limitations on disciplinary proceedings against the notary, that is to say in this part which has now been verified in the country, if therefore the notary treatment was such as to result in an effect and this cost-benefit to the parties, that is, of course, to receive disciplinary action and therefore it is not permissible to allow itself to become obsolete. The composition of the Disciplinary Court is also changed, otherwise bound legal transactions are regulated, the legal basis for the use of the notary document in electronic form and for so-called extracts from the Court Registry and important, a register of will is also introduced. Just because we are convinced in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the proposed changes will contribute to greater legal security for citizens and citizens, so that they can be integrated into our security system, that cases such as Orion and Zbiljski Gaj will never happen again, and that notaries will be more responsible for their work, we support the proposal of law in the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Irma. I invite Master Majdo Potrata to take the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 1994, the Notariat Act has recently proved to be an insufficient legal basis for ensuring the legal certainty of the parties in the conclusion of legal transactions, especially when it comes to the rights of the ignorant person. As greater legal certainty is in the interest of the parties, but also in the public interest, the United Nations Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Notariat Act. The main reasons for the adoption of the proposed novel are the need to increase the supervision of the Ministry of Justice over notaries and to strengthen the responsibility of notaries for their work. In addition, compliance with the provisions of other regulations or repealing certain provisions, the necessity of regulating the position of a notary trainee and the establishment of a central register of wills. However, the proposed amendments and additions are not such as to interfere with the principles and objectives of the current Notariat Act. The only question raised in this regard by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats is whether there is no doubt that the expected changes in favour of greater legal certainty of the parties will not bring additional burdens. The notary's warning duty to the known and normal risks of concluding a legal business will therefore be extended and more adapted to the economic and general social development which has led to changes in property law relations. Part of this is the conclusion of legal transactions by which they establish, restrict or burden property with other real rights. In the mid-1990s, although the introduced notariat was established, the question is whether its role and importance have been sufficiently consolidated. The visit of a notary responsible only for the certification of the signature on a public or private document, but not for the content, was therefore not required to determine whether the parties were allowed to enter into a transaction relating to the instrument or not, gave the parties the impression of sufficient protection of their rights and interests, but often the unfortunate assurance of the expected legal certainty. In fact, due to the party's overconfidence, lack of teaching or perhaps speculativeness, the fact that it is essential to draw up a document is therefore necessary and justified to determine the conditions that the document-makers are expected to meet in relation to real estate transactions. Notariat shall be a public service performed by notaries as persons of public trust empowered to draw up and keep public documents and to perform other official acts. Since the law defines the relationship between the party and the notary as a relationship based on trust, it is clear in the law that notaries carry out their professional activities in person and that they are exceptional from the rule. We expect that the changes and additions adopted will in fact bring greater legal certainty to the parties and participants in legal matters and will therefore reduce business and other risks. Since the mandatory behaviour of notaries is more precise, this does not necessarily mean a clearer role and thus professional certainty for notaries as well. We are, of course, referring to the provisions on the selection, appointment and supervision of notaries and the associated greater role of the Ministry of Justice, and the role of the Slovenian Chamber of notaries, in particular with regard to the disciplinary responsibility of notaries, notary candidates and notary trainees, is not neglected. So we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished State Secretary with co-worker. In the Slovenian People's Party we have examined the present law amending the Notariat Act, assessing that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law largely eliminates certain shortcomings. Of course, it should be stressed that only a change of law cannot prevent a new "basket" or "orion" from possibly occurring, but it is true that such a change of law, such as today's, can clearly determine the responsibilities and responsibilities of individual players in the purchase contracts, in which case it is a notary. Here I think the main abuses in the real estate market due to the unspecified liability of notaries in real estate and in business, whose subject is also a real-law and bond-law relationship. We also welcome the proposed amendment to the arrangements for the appointment of a notary and a notary trainee. However, it should be noted that Article 26 provides that only a university-graduate lawyer with a judicial examination may draw up a document containing a property permit. The proposed amendment is justified in order to increase the legal certainty of individual participants in the procedure. It is worth noting that we were faced with such a dilemma when we adopted the Real Estate Intermediation Act, when the consumer association wanted such protection, and it turned out that it was enough to have such a charter, i.e. every purchase contract, drawn up by a university lawyer. The fact is, we have a number of companies that are employed by lawyers without a judicial examination and that they are doing their job well, even though we do not have a state legal exam. The latter focuses on the training of a lawyer for the representation of third parties and the composition of the contract does not form part of such acts. The provisions adopted would therefore, in particular, constitute an additional cost in the real estate market and would in no way increase the legal security of buyers or real estate sellers. Furthermore, the adoption of such a provision would mean that the provision of the Real Estate Intermediation Act should also be repealed, allowing for the composition of such a legal document without a State legal examination. The additional protection of customers and the care against being played is reflected in Article 32, which provides, inter alia, for a written declaration by all parties that they are aware of the content of the notary's responsibility in verifying the signature. The purpose of this provision is also to prevent the parties from believing that the notary's signature attestation in itself is also a confirmation of the correctness and security of the content of the private document. In recent months, unfortunately, we have witnessed a number of affairs that have fueled debates about sufficient legal certainty. In presenting the amendment to the law, the proposal also stressed that the novel seeks to increase the legal security of citizens and to increase the accountability of notaries for their work and the proposed law removes certain shortcomings in this area, and we therefore assess that it should be accepted and will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. In 1995, after a long six-hundred-year withdrawal, a notariat reinstated as a public service performed by notaries in the capacity of public trustees authorised to draw up and keep public documents and to perform other official acts at the request of civil law bodies. After nine years of operation of this institute, at least three can be identified. That notaries have a monopolistic position, which, among other things, stems from the fact that the state provides them with a business that is lacking to many of them, especially in major cities, I think of Ljubljana here; that the control of their operations by the State is insufficient and that the tariffs they charge for the provision of their services are still too high, even though they have already reduced them once or twice. In recent times, it has been true that notaries who have not done their work have been mentioned several times in connection with various affairs such as Orion, Zbilski Gaj and others. It is therefore imperative to increase State control in view of the greater legal security of citizens and citizens and greater accountability by notaries and to establish the most confidential relationship between the notary and the party. The new law is intended to improve solutions in those provisions that relate in particular to notary alerting, namely, to alert the party in an understandable manner to the risks posed by the transaction, to identify persons in the case of a private document which receives the character of a notary record, to extend the deadlines, to appoint notaries, to number of candidates and cities, to the composition of the disciplinary court, to a different arrangement in the case of so-called tied legal transactions, to electronic commerce and to register. All these changes and additions should only bring improvements to those who use notary services, but in our parliamentary group, in Novi Slovenija, we believe that they are still too large. We would like the system in the area of notariat to be as open as possible, so that everyone who would meet the conditions laid down would be able to compete for the place of notary, so that the state would not, in the way that it is now prescribing the number of notaries, but that conditions are laid down, an exclusion factor. Many people have too much to do, and citizens and citizens often have to stand in line at their doors and wait for their services. We believe that this could also reduce the tariff, which is either different between notaries and generally too high. And in the interests of citizens and citizens, we would like to see certain certifications now carried out by notaries returned to the courts or administrative units, which we have already achieved in some part with the relevant provisions. Why were we unable to establish such a system in the field of notariat as they do in other countries, where this institution is very accessible and extremely common and has a long-term tradition? As in all areas, we believe that competition is welcome, we should also address it with solutions that are not for the benefit of citizens and citizens. The novel is correcting many things, so we will not oppose it in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17.6.2004. On the proposal of the law, three parliamentary groups, namely the LDS House of Members, the United List of Social Democrats Group and the DeSUS Group of Members, tabled amendments. First, I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the motioners to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will come to a decision, so I invite Members of Parliament and Members to the Chamber. We therefore vote on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 26. We're voting. There's not enough of us. I very much ask Members of Parliament and Members who are in the National Assembly to really accompany the meeting. We are voting against all agenda items. It is not right for those who really follow the meeting and are in the hall all the time to steal valuable time from one another with such interruptions. Please, those of you who are in the National Assembly if you come to the Hall! We'll vote on the amendment next time. Mr. Petty Officer, just a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u56	I don't have a voting device. Please, if the technical service can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We will ask the representative or representative of the technical service to assist Mr Petty Officer in remedying the damage. Is that all right, Mr. Tiny? [[It's not.]] Okay. Mr Petty Officer is equipped with a voting device that works. This is the second time we have decided on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 26. We're voting. 48 present, favoured 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 27 and the amendment of the same motions to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put Article 32 and the amendments of the same motions to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 26, 27 and 32. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representative of the government and the legislative and legal service whether the amendments adopted may have led to a lack of consistency with the bill? [[No, no, ……]] That way, we can move on to the decision-making of the law. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for their cooperation. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is to be considered Proposal for a law implementing the Payment Policy Agreement in the private sector during the period 2004 to 2005 - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. At this point, the Minister of the Interior was invited. If he's here, I'd like to invite him if we don't continue. The draft law has been treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body, please present the report of the Committee to us by a member of the Committee. Mr. Janez Komljanec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 54th meeting, on 10.06., the Internal Policy Committee considered a proposal for a law implementing an agreement on private wage policy during the 2004/05 period submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 114th regular meeting on 4.6, the College of President decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which had examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. As part of the second reading of the draft law, the Government's representatives, as proponents of the law, initially stressed that the Government had drafted a bill on the basis of an agreement on private sector wage policy in the period 2004/2005, in which the representatives of the agreement in Article 11 agreed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would propose a law that would legitimize the content of the agreement and forward it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, while endeavouring to adopt it by 30/06.2004. The agreement was signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Employers' Office of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Association of Employers of Commercial Activities of Slovenia. It is clear from the above that the agreement was signed by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, which includes the majority of employees, a total of four fifths, while a number of unions representing the interests of one fifth of employees did not sign the agreement. The government is required to implement the agreement and to exercise the rights arising from the agreement, including for a minority of private sector employees whose unions have not acceded to the agreement. If the government had not done so, it would have violated Article 11 of the agreement and the obligations it has on the social partners. In this case, there could be discrimination against a minority of employees. If the criminal sanction for an employer is not laid down in the draft law, which resulted in the conclusion of an agreement, the applicant considers that the experience of the implementation of the agreement and the laws has so far suggested that sanctions are not necessary where employers implement the law. On the issue of sanctions, however, the government representative stressed that legal sanctions also exist for those employers from activities whose response unions have not signed, as the law extends the general activity of these rights. In the event that the employer does not grant the rights of employees in the private sector, they may directly challenge these rights on the basis of an agreement. They may also file a claim for damages for infringement of the rights set out in the agreement. The debate raised the systemic question whether it is good and appropriate that we have a system of agreement and law, or whether it would be better if we had only an agreement, as well as the question whether the content of the agreement includes the need to sanction them by the State. It was pointed out that the agreement, given the number of employees represented by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, was legitimate. Article 12 of the Agreement provides that it shall enter into force when signed by the majority of employers' organisations and the majority of trade unions representing the majority of employees in the private sector and by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After the discussion, the Committee voted jointly and adopted all the articles of the bill in accordance with Rule 128 of its Rules of Procedure. The Internal Policy Committee has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and is therefore proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! The minimum wage is the result of negotiations between employers, unions and the government and is set out in the Minimum Wages Act, on the method of harmonising wages and on the annual leave rescheduling, which sets the amount of the minimum full-time wage for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia; no one can receive less than the amount laid down by the law. Trainees and employees who receive salaries under the law on guaranteed personal income shall also be entitled to the minimum wage. A guaranteed salary is governed by the law on guaranteed personal income or salaries. In view of the recent concept of minimum wage, employees are no longer subject to the amount of guaranteed salary, but the provisions on the calculation of the amount of salaries in the event of insolvency of a legal person, the lack of funds in the transaction account and so on and the provisions on the possible increase of that amount are applicable. The legal form of the implementation of the agreement in Slovenia is special, as in the European Union they do not know the regulatory arrangements for the agreement. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is a specific feature that we consider to be positive because it represents State control over the level of the minimum and guaranteed wage in the country, and it also provides a political guarantee that the country is absolutely present in the area of wages and wage policy. Following the new, the minimum wage under the private sector wage policy agreement is no longer harmonised for the same percentage of consumer price increases and additionally for gross social product growth, but is increased by the agreed fixed amount, i.e. 6,000 tolars in 2004 and 6.100 in 2005. This amount is, of course, lower than the increase, given the previous method of coordination. In this place, I must point out that the growth of pensions in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is linked to wage growth, so in our Group of Members we cannot express our satisfaction that salaries in the private sector will increase by a lower amount than otherwise in the old way of coordination. In addition, let us mention that only the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia has agreed to and signed such an agreement, while five trade unions, which exceed around 100,000 employees, have not signed matters. From the above in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the agreement will not have a positive impact on such an increase in salaries, which would also ensure an appropriate increase in pensions, as would have been the case if the salaries in the private sector were harmonised according to the old system. However, we believe that this must also be accepted at this time and in efforts to stabilise our economy and public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u61	I will now give my word to my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, employers' organisations, namely the Economic Chambers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Employers' Association and the Association of Trade Employers and Trade Unions, not all but parts of trade unions representing the majority of workers, over 300,000 employees in the Republic of Slovenia, signed an agreement on a private sector wage policy on 28 April 2004 between 2004 and 2005. The agreement is not something new in the Slovenian space, but it means continuing the concerted practice of three-partite bargaining on the basic elements of wages which all employers in Slovenia are obliged to respect. This is one of the most important agreements that will determine whether we will be able to take over the euro in Slovenia and continue to lead an effective economic policy. It is important that the social partners have been able to reach an agreement. In this way, not only does it mean achieving those two objectives that I mentioned earlier and are of exceptional importance to all, but it also means raising the salaries of all employees and not just some. According to the opinion of the social partners, gross wages will likely increase more than 5,000 tolls by 70% of the employees in economic activities, as we know that, above all, in the labour intensive sectors where such wage increases will mean something. In agreement, there is an important wage policy system in that part that increases all employees' salaries equally by the same absolute amount. Minimum wages are thus increasing more than originally thought. This agreement went in line with the social agreement, which, as we all know, is at the border of the possible balance of the sectors mentioned above, so that Slovenia will continue to maintain a competitive economy in this part. We must be aware that we are entering an extremely competitive environment where, with the free mobility of capital, this can move from Slovenia to countries with cheaper labour force and thus result in job losses. We all know what helps us higher wages if we don't have jobs. Government of the Republic of Slovenia or, in particular, its Chairman, Mag. Tone Rob has always tried to exert an intense influence in order to reach an agreement between employers and employees. In addition, the government has also drawn up a proposal to reduce the tax on wages paid and, therefore, in this package measure, has also tried to contribute through its mechanisms to the success of such social bargaining. Therefore, since the tax reduction is conditional upon the conclusion of the agreement, the Government is also a co-signatory of this new wage agreement. With the proposal to amend the Law on Taxes on Wages Pay, which the government will submit to the National Assembly in July and we will gladly accept, the lower tax threshold will also rise to $165,000. This will be implemented once most collective sectoral agreements are concluded under the social agreement. In addition, there will be effects on the final salaries of employees also on income, as net wages will be higher as a result of higher general income relief in 2005. Both measures therefore mean an increase in the minimum wage in Slovenia. By signing the agreement, the government has therefore undertaken to propose a law that will legitimize the content of the signed agreement. The basic objective of the law was also to lay down agreements and to conclude the resulting rights of all employees in the private sector in Slovenia and to set a minimum and guaranteed salary, both rising from 111,000 to 117.500 and guaranteed from 52,000 to 54,000. Therefore, if the law applies to all employees, it also opens the way for further negotiations. We hope that the social partnership will win and that there will be an agreement in the future in all activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give my word to Rudolph Petan for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On behalf of the SDS, at the outset, I would like to point out that the only good thing in this law is that workers are paid up, although so minimal. It should also be pointed out that in the SDS we believe that 5,000 tolars are too small and that Slovenian workers certainly deserve a greater increase than the government has set out. All that has been going on around the drafting of this law is a school case of how not to act, how the government should not behave. Let's do it in one order at a time. The law has the title "implementation of an agreement" and so on. The agreement, however, is agreement between the partners, in this case between employers represented by the relevant chambers and workers represented by the unions, with the assistance of the arbitration panel of the government. However, the content of the agreement reached shall be written down and all the partners in this relationship shall sign the document and this shall be considered to be assigned. That is the case in Europe, this must be stressed, as is the case in Europe, in all the countries of the European Union, except for us. However, according to the tradition of old thought, an agreement is not strong enough and must be legislated. This means that the government has a key role to play in negotiating between the social partners, which undermines what it thinks is right. This means that you work with a fig in your pocket, but not looking for consensus or consent from most partners, but it is enough that only one person on the employee's side will sign it. Since it is heard that this union is close to the government, then one gets the sense that it is not an agreement, but a political compulsion by the government that it is a unique solution in the European Union, the government also acknowledges that the legal arrangements for implementing the private sector wage policy agreement are not present in any of the Member States of the European Union. There is sufficient agreement in itself and sufficient legal basis in comparable legal systems for the enforcement of contractual decisions in wage policy. Similar arrangements are made by Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, except for us, of course. This feeling is reinforced by the fact that the real causes are recorded in the message to the government by trade unions that have not acceded to this forced or forced agreement. The unions that have not signed this imposed agreement state: We inform you that we do not intend to sign this agreement, and the reasons are the non-acceptance of our proposals, namely to include the salary raise in the basic salary. This is a fundamental principle, and obviously the government does not want to limit the growth of the salaries of managers, to undertake by agreement to adopt a minimum wage law and a law on the participation of workers in profits. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government were to take this into account, then Elan could not have happened where, I think the three managers are asking for a reward, the real division of profits in their favour, for three and a few billion, while the workers, who certainly have contributed their share to this profit, of course, are not getting anything. Apparently, the government thinks and is up to three managers to cash billions in profits, rather than up to a few hundred workers. That's what he says. And that's why these unions didn't sign this deal. Certainly not if the government is so ignorant of this problem. Apparently, there was only one union who was willing to sign this and sign such an ignorant attitude towards employee representatives. The fact that the government has found only one union partner who was willing to sign this document means that the government has set a goal, set the content and started negotiating, because of the impression that it has acquired one partner on the trade union side, introduced a provision in the agreement on the law, as well as the laws and other "insubordinations", in narration, forced the content of the law. And all the rest of the talk about the strength of the legal act is a beautiful addition. Such work has a short breath and does not lead to trust and Europeanisation in this area. Since the government has forced such a non-European way of working and playing union partners and due to a large majority in Parliament, the adoption of this document is the only way for workers to get at least 5,000 dollars, which will not be included in the basic salary. Since we do not want to harm workers in the SDS, we will probably not oppose the adoption of this law. However, we regret that this increase is not greater, that such a bureaucratic and thus ignoring partners is done. Such a solution, however, is a mockery of the partnership agreement. We will not oppose this, and we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Private sector workers and their unions concluded a social agreement with employers and the government in April 2003 for the period 2003/2005. It also defines common elements, criteria and criteria for wage policy, in particular that the minimum wage as the lowest wage level that the employer has to pay to the full-time worker needs to be maintained as a legal provision, as this ensures that this right is inapplicable. Therefore, in the 2003 agreements, the minimum wage is defined as mandatory legal content. The proposal for a law that we are considering is therefore also the implementation of this provision. It increases the minimum wage from August 2004 to 117 thousand 500 and from August 2005 to 122 thousand 600 tolars. Trade unions have long claimed that wages due to price increases do not increase as a percentage, but with the same amount for all, from the lowest to the highest wage, which ensures the maintenance of the real level also of the lowest wages and the reduction of minimum wage ranges. Representatives of all employers, representatives of all employees, i.e. all labour unions and government representatives, participated in the negotiations to address this issue. The long-term negotiations, also accompanied by warning lines, unfortunately did not lead to full agreement. However, the government, all employers and the association of free trade unions, which represents a large majority of private sector employees, were able to agree to pay each employee paid under the collective agreement for August 2004 by at least 5 thousand and in 2005 by at least 5 thousand 100 tolars, even if the reconciliation account for each employee’s activities amounts to a lower amount. What does that mean? The majority agreement reached. Not only did the government and the unions negotiate, but also employers who assessed what was real, what was not, and at least 5,000 this year and another 5 000 100 will get everyone who would not get this lowest amount. All those who say that this is small, but this is the best that could be achieved, all the rest can be promises, but unfortunately they cannot be realized. The adoption of a bill means the legalisation of an agreement concluded by the social partners in force; the fulfilment of the requirement of trade unions to pay employees at least a year or two in the same minimum amount; the direct legal obligation of all employers to increase the gross wage of each employee under a collective agreement for this agreed amount, and the possibility that trade unions and employers in collective agreements also agree to a higher amount of linear increase of each salary. And that's the deal that's going on. Whoever has the will and will look at the Official Journal, which has already been published since the adoption of this agreement, will find additions to the industry's agreements, which are already increasing at the expense of this minimum wage agreement. Wherever a higher amount is formally agreed, it will be binding directly on the basis of the agreement and no law will be required. For this there are all the reasons for the State Assembly to adopt the law. By means of this law, we will confirm and open the way for further negotiations between the social partners, including with regard to issues not yet settled in the social agreement, including the law on the profit of legal persons. I believe that this is of interest to all of us, so we will be supported in the United List of Social Democrats in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At least two characteristics could be highlighted for the proposal for a private sector wage agreement law in the period 2004-2005. First, to catch the 1.7.2004 deadline for which the social partners have agreed to narrow down the content of the private sector wage policy agreement. Secondly, they do not know the form of wage regulation by law in any EU Member State. The agreement on basic elements of government wage policy, employers and trade unions received its epilogue in the private sector wage policy agreement signed at the end of April this year. The agreement was signed only by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, which is the representation of 400,000 employees, while some others did not want to sign the agreement because of their disagreement with the proposed method of harmonising wages. It is interesting that the legal arrangements for the implementation of the private sector wage policy agreement are not practiced in any of the EU Member States. Other means an agreement with sufficient ground for the implementation of the agreement. In our case, however, the agreement does not apply or only applies to those who have concluded it, while the law should allow the rights under the agreement to extend to those workers whose trade unions have not signed the agreement. However, the fact is that the law does not have sanctions and that it only counts on the benefit of employers. Employees can challenge what is stipulated in the law, but we know how long such procedures are. The government was unable to deal with the unions, so it was intended to enforce its views with the power of the law. Is that how we imagine social dialogue? Instead of the government, Members are expected to take responsibility in the area of pay, following an urgent procedure, although much more negotiation is needed. The National Assembly will now lay down by this law that what the regime unions have adopted is applicable to all employees, irrespective of their opinion on such wage harmonisation. The arrangement itself, I'm thinking about the arrangement by which we know the minimum wage, is pretty weird. This arrangement, which provides for a minimum wage, which is already shamefully low in itself, is still almost twice as high as the so-called guaranteed salary, which serves the government as a criterion for the assessment of social benefits and scholarships. This amount is not nearly enough for a decent life and, compared to the highest wages, shows how much solidarity has already fallen. We do not want to support such a law in our parliamentary group because we believe that this is a mockery of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary. There is no way in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to forget the word of the United List of Social Democrats and Minister Bohinc that 100,000 workers who disagree with this law are a minority. While this same policy option has addressed and sought the rights of minorities, which are 100 times smaller, then and where it suits them. In the SNS, we cannot support a law that is simply and only sand in the eyes and which seeks requirements only for workers, not for gentlemen of directors, managers and managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I invite Members of the Parliament and Members who are in the vicinity, because we will vote. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. The invitation shall be valid again. Second time we vote on the law. We're voting. In ten minutes, we will vote on the bill for the third time, which is 14.41 minutes. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u72	Your Honor! We are ahead of the decision on the bill. Mr Barovic wants to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially on the left hand side, I know much more than you do what this is about. First. Secondly, I have just accepted, the introduction to the explanations of vote, are excellence in the Rippers, perhaps you do not have them in your congregation. We were talking about their fate. Thirdly, Mr. Minister, I have here a copy of the magnetogram, where it is clearly evident that, despite the fact that you have told my esteemed colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič that you did not appoint 100,000 workers of two or three minority unions, here is evidence that you appointed a minority. That hurts. I'm sorry. I know, tell me, it doesn't hurt. Yeah, you said it was a minority. 100,000 workers of two or three unions are not a minority. But there are other minorities of three, five, ten or twenty people, for whom you, in particular you and your client are extremely interested. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u74	Mr Barovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u75	Yes, an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u76	Mr Barovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u77	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u78	No, that wasn't an explanation for the voice. I'll take your word for it. This was a pure abuse of the rules of procedure for accounting purposes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u79	In the Slovenian National Party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u80	with Mr Minister [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u81	We won't. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u82	I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you for not wanting to hear the truth and for not giving everyone a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u84	Mr Barovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u85	All right, keep your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u86	I took your word because you abused the right to explain your voice. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u87	As long as you still have it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u88	for inappropriate accounting. We vote on the bill. We're voting. The third vote on the bill was not successful. The President shall determine, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the meeting shall continue. There's enough of you in the hall, so we'll continue the meeting. And I ask you kindly for your attention, Mr Barovich, I ask you to stop being inappropriate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We're in the voting phase. Mr. Rokavec, procedural proposal. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr Rokavec first raised his hand for a procedural proposal. Please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Madam President, I believe that, due to Mr Barovic's performance and then also to the reactions that were in the Chamber, there was insufficient assembly of Members and Members so that the majority in the assembly could also notify their presence. Therefore, as President, I would ask you to take these circumstances into account and suggest that the third vote take place again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u90	No, no, no. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please! Look, we don't have a general debate circle here. We continue to address this point. There's enough of us in the hall, and we'll get to the vote. Mr. Partlych, is the device not working? Here you go, Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u91	I would like to say quite seriously that it is not necessary to postpone, because there was no conditions for us to vote first. I didn't know we were voting. Besides, I voted because the last minute I saw that the red line was running out. Otherwise, because of the noise, because there were some personal disputes there and because I didn't hear you say "peace, we're voting" in particular, I'm just sure that something missed us. And since there were no voting conditions, I think you can give us another chance to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u92	Okay. We are re-voting the bill. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased to tell you in the introduction that we have aligned the paper that is under consideration today with a large, large majority of all public sector unions, up to the last article of this Act. In short, the 100 % alignment with the 20 public sector unions of 24 in terms of their participation in the negotiations shows how carefully, credible and responsible both sides have prepared and applied their commitment to the social partnership in this case. This lays down legal conditions for the public sector to apply, as announced, the pay system law and thus the new public sector wage system as of 1 July of this year, i.e. the following month. What is the objective of the proposed amendments to the payroll law? Determination of how to harmonise the value of wage classes, how to make mandatory use of a catalogue of job and title functions, limitation of progress to a higher pay grade in Group B for management bodies in budget users, determination of conditions for the advancement of public servants in research activities, establishment of means for payment of additional performance and salary for additional performance, determination of the amount of the allowance for working time and the allowance for permanence, regulation of the way in which the current basic salary is paid in accordance with the new pay system, regulation of the way in which the imbalances are addressed in basic salaries and determination of the salary scale and determination of the starting salary for non-economic activities. Simply put, it is a way of translating into a new system, it is a way of managing how to eliminate imbalances, it is to regulate the progress of public servants during the period of elimination of imbalances and it is to valorise the basic salary by 2.5% linearly, and in the remaining by 3.13 by ways of eliminating disparities or imbalances in salaries to be determined by collective agreement. The law provides a very precise translation of the basic salary, by counting the percentage achieved by the public servant by promotion at the workplace or in the title on 30.6.2004 and the so-called fixed allowances, which were part of his salary on that day, and by multiplying the total figure found by the starting salary for the first tariff class, which, as I have already said, will increase by 2.5% instead of the current 52.437 after the new amount of SIT 53.748. The calculated basic salaries of a public official will be translated into a basic salary under the Public Sector Wage System Act and will be classified in the nearest wage class in Annex 1 ́, which is the annex to the novel we are talking about today. The elimination of disproportionates is determined in such a way that for each job or title or wage class, it will be determined that it will be higher than the translated wage class. I'm talking about the so-called target pay grade. In this case, the civil servant will be classified as a higher salary class, but the basic salary of this target grade will be achieved gradually by 31.12.2009 at the latest, as agreed with the social partners. Progress in the period of elimination of imbalances is a process that is completely separate from the elimination of imbalances, and progress in short is something other than the elimination of imbalances. The pay grade to be acquired by a public servant through promotion in the workplace will be included in the already achieved pay grade. The law sets out, as we agreed on the elimination of imbalances, the resources to address the imbalances identified will be collected on the specific budget line of the State budget and the budget of local communities, and for the health sector they will be provided with a general agreement on the implementation of the healthcare programme in accordance with the law in this area. The amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act provides that payment of salaries under this Act must be provided no later than three months after the adoption of all the sub-laws and collective agreements necessary for the calculation of wages. However, until the start of payment of salaries following a new one, salaries will be paid to public servants on the basis of the application of this law of applicable rules and collective agreements. The transition to the new salary system will take place on 1 July 2004 for the whole public sector, in which there are no direct users of the budget employed by approximately 152,000 public servants. Let me also say that it is already working intensively directly after the harmonisation and submission of the novelty under consideration today in the negotiations on the public sector collective agreement, that there are no interruptions, but that the work is running intensively. I would also like to comment on the letter we received today from part of the unions, which links with article 11 of the novel. This is a question of the so-called quorum or a sufficient legal number for the general validity of the collective agreement. I should say that the text of Article 11 was drawn up by a trade union negotiating group at the 106th meeting of the negotiating group on 9 June 2004, the text of Article 11 being adopted unanimously without a vote against and with 4 abstentions. The meeting was attended by 17 representatives of the public sector union, as mentioned by the trade unions. However, I think it is crucial to say what the legal situation is in the event that this amendment, which obviously has high support within the union group and which the government does not oppose, is considered an important step forward in order for these issues to be settled legally. By the way, the government itself has also proposed formulations in this direction, although somewhat different and the unions have not been harmonised, but we have agreed to a majority, by the unions, a certain text, which is also the subject of your decision today at the amendment to Article 11. The legal situation would follow the existing provisions of previous labour relations rules, where the general validity of the collective agreement would, in fact, be sufficient for the signature of one union itself. We share the view with trade unions that this would not be, at least not legitimate, although under the law, and it is right to increase the number of unions as a condition for general validity, in the way the unions themselves have proposed, namely 40% of the employees or members of the union and at least four unions from these activities, 40% of the membership and at least four activities. We consider this to be a good proposal, but above all, that this proposal, which is mostly supported in the unions and that the intervention of the part of the unions which is subsequent, should not affect the course of this procedure or the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. To the floor, I would like to invite a member of the Committee, Mr Miran Potč, to present the report, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u95	The work force has held a thorough debate on the draft law and proposes that it be adopted by the State Assembly in the text, as agreed by it. First of all, we heard an additional explanation by the representative of the applicant that the proposal for a law lays the legal basis for the introduction of the public sector wage system law of 1.7.2004 that it is in line with the vast majority of public sector unions and represents the result of the social partnership and that this is a second step towards the establishment of a transparent public sector wage management system and that the third, which will follow, will be the signing of a collective contract for the public sector, thus establishing a legal basis for eliminating the imbalances in the salaries of public officials. In addition to Members and Members, Government representatives and representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, representatives of the Commission for Social Activities of the State Council, representatives of the Union for Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, representatives of the Union for Health and Social Protection of Slovenia and members of the negotiating group of public sector unions, as well as representatives of the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia, also participated in the discussion. Following the discussion, the mother's working body was adopted by 12 amendments, 6 of which were drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislature and formed by the mother's working body. 6 of these, however, also concerns the content additions that have been largely adopted on the basis of harmonised union proposals. For this reason, I propose, on behalf of the Committee, that the draft law, as drafted in the Committee's consolidated text, be adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister and Fellow Members, Your Honor. The bill before us deals with an area that has been dealt with several times in the past year, but we do see that the issue is clearly still inconclusive. Public sector salaries range from 140,000 to 150,000 participants, employees classified under the new legislation as new careers and payment classes. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that some solutions are good and some have reservations. We estimate that provisions allowing unevenly divided working time would contribute to a higher quality of life, as work will be more flexible. In addition, we believe that one salary belonging to a public employee in terms of additional performance is too little stimulation and we agree with the proposal that, in areas where it is possible to obtain funds from a market activity and from non-disclosure, more basic salaries per year can also be paid out from this title to an individual public servant. Article 14 proposes a different way of calculating the work-life allowance. So far, it has been automatic, with 0.5% for each year completed. The government proposes that instead of this automation, we apply the principle of harmonising heights on the basis of a collective agreement. Given that trade unions do not have the power and position to reach such a more favourable agreement, and given that the State is seeking to implement the policy of lower government spending, we estimate that such a solution will not benefit employees. Similarly, Article 1 of the Act, which would cover a trade union initiative in the National Assembly, makes it difficult for us to agree. We also believe that July's wage harmonisation, with which the guaranteed salary will increase to the circus 53 000 700 SIT and the minimum to the circus 102 000 SIT, will be too low since inflation and gross social product growth have been higher in the past year. Employees in the public sector will not be paid in such a real way. All of this will also have a negative impact on the potential alignment with pensions in this year's September. Articles 49a to 49c provide solutions for translation into payment classes. At this point, we would draw attention to an illogical study in this part of the draft law, where it is envisaged to combine the allowances with the basic salary and to translate them into a new title on the basis of an absolute total amount. We believe that this could result in a disproportionate situation, since there is a possibility that, for example, two or more employees will reach an equal pay grade with different basic salaries and allowances. Despite the dilemmas and open questions, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u99	Dear representatives of the government, distinguished others. The fact is that the law provides a legal basis for the validity of the law in the public sector wage system. Members and Members of Parliament are caught in the running out of time, which is, as it were, tomorrow, July 1, 2004. The fact is that we have before us a statement by representative public sector unions in late May, where there is majority coordination among trade unions. Several trade unions have not signed a declaration of coherence, but on the Internal Policy Committee, at the proposal of a colleague of Kremjar, we have saved the reservations of the RTV Slovenia press union and, in part, the Firefighters' union. We are also pleased that a union of workers of the University of Ljubljana joined the signing of the declaration of co-ordination yesterday, which shows that trade unions in the public sector together with us are ready to take the next step towards the goal we have set ourselves, a transparent and stimulating system of public sector wages. In the LDS, we have had concerns or are still alerting us to the deadline for non-disclosure revenues that other legislation does not know. This is Article 7, which has also been quite a talk on the Committee, and it is the users of the budget, who derive part of the funds from the non-disclosure revenue for public services. These revenues do not come from public funds, they present an opportunity to pay increased performance to the extent of three salaries, if the founder agrees with such a prize, of course. In doing so, we point to the unprivileged status of those public institutions or institutions which, because of their nature, do not have the opportunity to generate such incomes, either as income from sponsors or as income from their own activities. Although we have received a reply that the definition of this deadline should be more precisely defined in the government regulation. It is also true that the deadline will be defined and the awards will, as we understand, be awarded to those public institutions that sell goods and services more easily on the market. In the Group of Members, some believe that these are very open solutions that depend to a very large extent on the classification of payment classes within payment groups. We do not know these classifications or are the subject of negotiations. Of course, it is a key stranger who creates doubts or leaves us behind abstract solutions. The basic objective of the law was to find the proportions between paying groups, i.e. to eliminate the current imbalances. We therefore expect that this will be achieved further by means of regulations and decisions on the classification of individual professions in wage classes. It is also a fact that correcting negotiated arrangements today would be risky. At the same time, it is also worth stressing that the implementation of the payroll system for an extremely large number of public servants employed by direct and indirect budget consumers is a gradual process. This is a process that will last until 2009. We're here at one of the steps that's not relevant at all, but it's certainly not the last. The wage imbalance in the public sector is expected to be resolved, as it was said, by 2009. The means to address imbalances will be made available to the special fund, the basis for closing these issues will be at the level of the sub-legislative acts, and these are extremely important. In the LDS Group, we will support the proposal by a majority, but certainly not by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! This law and the situation in this area is a complete failure of the Ministry and Government in the area of public sector wages. It is also obvious that the government does not want to respect the laws it has adopted. The public sector wage system should already be in force from 1.1 this year. The Government itself proposed that the validity should be postponed to 1.7.2004. That was the first transmission. We were also able to hear from the minister that the law might come into force earlier, and I quote: "I do not rule out that this will be done sooner, but I do not want to predict whether it will be 1.5 or it will be 1.6. The fact is, before the escalation starts, that's 1.7., a new system has to be put in place." In the SDS, we have always supported the government in its efforts to regulate the public sector wage situation. But what he's doing now is probably a little too much. It is unacceptable for the government to propose a law that is adopted unanimously in Parliament, and then the same government is constantly putting into effect. The justification for the adoption of this law, if this law is necessary for the former law to be enforced, is indeed an unusual argument. So far, it has been considered that the law is complete. However, if this is really necessary for us to have a marriage in order to have a previous marriage, then this marriage was basically a bit wrong or, if I may say so, bad. The irony is that this law too does not solve the essential issue, and these are inconsistencies in the public sector. In the SDS, we support the increase, especially since wages in this sector have been more stagnant than elsewhere. But we demand an immediate approach to resolving inconsistencies, which is a gap between wages. It is unacceptable for a teacher, a rookie, to say 250 thousand wages, and the highest salary in the state exam center is 4 million SIT. Even if it's only been a month. That the teacher's work is 20 times less valuable, in the SDS we don't think that's possible and there's no argument for such differences. It is also unacceptable that the highest salary in the central hospital facility, in the Clinical Centre, is 2 times lower than the highest wages in healthcare homes in Slovenia. It is also unacceptable that hospital leaders have 2 times less wages than those in health homes in Slovenia. We don't go into what is too high or which is too low. The ratio is abnormal, it introduces confusion, disorder and discontent among public servants. The question of responsibility is also raised. Whether the responsibility in the state exam centre, for example, is four times greater than that of the director of the Clinical Centre or 20 times the responsibility of the teacher. Your Honor, that's not gonna hold up. Such a mess at national level is also transferred to the municipal level. If that's how they can work there, then so can we. It is therefore incomprehensible that the highest wage in the zoo can be 2 times higher than that of the Prime Minister, the President of the State or, if you wish, the President of the National Assembly. Here I have a table where there are about 200 salaries of various institutions in the public sector, which are higher than that of the President of the State or the Prime Minister or the President of Parliament. It's a little weird. The search for causes and justification for such a situation is irrelevant. There is no reasonable answer or explanation, except that it is a political criterion for our staff, and it should cost as much as it wants, even if it takes 4 million 800 for one salary. It is precisely because of such anomalies or, if you want, because of such in the sky, we cannot agree with the forecast that the discrepancies will be balanced by 2009. This is unacceptable and just shocking. It follows that the government has put wages in an absurd position in the public sector and means that the government does not have the will to settle the imbalances. The only good side of this law is, unfortunately, that it also defines wage increases in the public sector. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , who were more lagging behind than elsewhere. [[...]] I'll be right with you. This is also the only reasonable reason not to oppose the adoption of this law. We want and say that we demand that such terrible disagreements begin to be resolved as soon as possible, in fact and not only on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. By means of the Public Sector Wages Act, we want to simplify the system and ensure comparable wages in the public sector, namely for activities which, by their function, organisation and funding system, are very different, for activities whose pay systems have developed consistently and unrelatedly since 90, for activities where employees in comparable jobs have unjustified wage differences, and for activities where the Circus is 150,000 employees and where 23 trade unions operate. I have pointed out this for a reason to say that I believe that it is difficult, long-term and that it requires a great deal of readiness for all, both governments and trade unions and employees. We want to change the system in cooperation with all of these, and that is why this task is even more difficult, as we have pursued it with the aim of unifying the pay system, establishing an appropriate relationship between pay grade and gradually eliminating unacceptable wage differences between comparable professions, as well as between the highest and lowest wages. However, the aim of eliminating the differences between comparable professions has been defined in the law. To talk about not starting this process is either ignorance of the law or sowing something that is simply not true. Now, with the proposed solutions contained in this law, we are pursuing these objectives. Not in full and with the initial dynamics outlined, but in full compliance with the objectives adopted and in full creative cooperation with the unions and through the enforcement of the social partnership, which is an indispensable condition for social cohesion and the social acceptability of reform among public sector employees. Without that, it's impossible to come true. And that is the achievement that we must stress and respect. In particular, the trade unions have shown willingness and determination to implement the reform without serious social shocks and with a very strong willingness to find the right solutions. Therefore, it is not exactly in any way already achieved that the proposed amendments have to be depreciated, and further steps should also be supported by all parliamentary parties. We do not idealise what has been achieved, but we believe that the content of the law stems from an agreement between the government and trade unions and thus constitutes the basis and condition for further cooperation and agreement solutions in the tasks remaining to enable the current system of wages to be translated into a system based on nominally defined basic wages, which is an important prerequisite for the continuation of wage coordination and the elimination of disparity, which means the continuation of the reform without formal delay of its implementation by 1.7., under the condition of a successful agreement on further issues, namely the establishment and harmonisation of comparable jobs and their salaries among all parties to the agreement, and allowing the establishment of a disparity fund not only for the retention of disproportionately high wages, but also for the gradual growth of disproportionately low wages. We are aware that fundamental substantive issues are coordinated among most unions, unfortunately not always among them. We are aware that some trade unions may have wanted to resolve some issues that have not yet been resolved, but we believe that it is right that we have a fragile consensus in a way that we can adopt solutions, as we have done on the working body and at the same time promise all of us our assistance, to continue to participate in addressing those problems that will be revealed later and in supporting this important and major reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pece has been reported. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I apologize on behalf of the Slovenian National Party for not informing you of the change in time. Thank you. We are talking about a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector's wage system for the third time, or we are discussing a second novel, and I think there are enough concrete data that I have mentioned to understand. In November 2003, a mere shift of entry into force from 1.1 to 1.7.2004 was determined due to the non-conformity of the government party. The proposed amendments also include the introduction of a collective agreement instrument for the public administration. Well, now I'm just going to ask you a few questions and only, Mr. Minister and Government representatives. I would like to point out that changes in the implementation of the collective agreement instrument in the field of state administration have been proposed. The law is to enter into force 1.7. Tell me, please, when can payment of salaries under this system begin? As far as the Slovenian National Party is aware, colleagues and colleagues, there is no collective agreement and it is far from there. A very clear and clear question. Pays are based on sub-laws and collective bargains, because they are not, they will be a deposit, not a salary. Tell the people how it's gonna be pay. What will be the payout of the performance if, according to our data, there is no agreement with the unions in full. Will the old law apply here, or will it be new? People in the public administration and the public sector, whatever anyone is watching - it's best to watch them today by listening to all the media, 'yes, because we're going to adopt a law by which something increases' to be popular and populist is very nice. That's not true! Tell me what will happen to the progress of these people, those who are truly working honestly in this state administration. There are several, regardless of political colour and affiliation, at least in each of the Members' groups there are some very useful and interesting. Tell me! How will it actually be possible to address the imbalance in basic salaries? We have not seen the analysis, but we have not seen the assessments; if we have missed them, Mr Minister, representatives of the government or colleagues and colleagues, tell us where they are! Are the necessary financial resources provided? Confirm that they are. And then you don't have to answer the question. And even if we already have a state council, which we like to use very much when we need it, when we don't need it, it's superfluous for us, all of us, not just for us - the Council of State has warned the proposer that, according to the government, no one will get paid but increased. However, there is no additional burden on the budget. I don't know if I put this pocket in this pocket, I believe it's in one of these two pockets; but if I take one of my colleagues' pockets, I think it's called a place. What you got, you got. And one more thing. I have great respect for the rule of law and I always look at their opinions. I'm going to criticize them this time because when it was a proposal [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - I conclude, Madam Vice-President - for specialisation in health to be classified in the eighth tariff class, a negative opinion was given. However, when the proposal for a legal part to be classified in the eighth tariff class was made, the legislative and legal service did not give a negative or positive opinion. This is wrong, colleagues and colleagues, to all those who are and who will be with us in the public sector. And one more thing. Lobbying is certainly allowed, and this law is a great example of how nice it is to know how to lobby.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, I need to explain. You've asked the Minister at least ten questions. There was a long and comprehensive debate on this work on the Committee. Since no amendment has been tabled in the context of the second reading, we cannot discuss today, we have only the views of the members of the groups. So in such cases, we expect positions to be presented because it seems like the Minister would not then want to answer the questions. Just an explanation, Mr. Barovich. My word, Mag. Janez Drobnič, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government or minister with fellow workers! The story of the adoption of the law on the public sector's wage system is being dragged through the current government's entire mandate. Before this round, the government reportedly concluded that amendments to the law on the public sector wage system need to regulate the conditions for the application of this law in the event that all necessary collective agreements are not signed with the trade union party. Even the Government itself notes that the current law is null and void in the works relating to the general validity of collective agreements, to the definition of majority or quorums for conclusion, to the modification and withdrawal of collective agreements, to the representativeness of public sector trade unions, to the possibility of unilaterally regulating the application of this law by a government regulation, to the application of an allowance for working time and to the shift of the deadline for its application. The proposal for amendments and the addition of this law should certainly be coordinated by the government in negotiations with the trade union party, but it has not done so to the end. Instead, he is now trying to enforce his views of force, with the power of the law. Where's the social dialogue here? This law is a comprehensive package of very important changes and additions that interfere with the very essence of the law. While the government argues that the principles are respected, that the material situation of public servants does not deteriorate and that the evaluation of work is being established depending on the complexity of the job, it is difficult to believe this if it has failed to convince the trade unions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you adopt this law, instead of the government, you will take responsibility for the mess in the salaries of the public sector, which the union and the government obviously are not capable of solving on their own. Although Minister Bohinc has celebrated many times the alignment with the union side, which then appeared a few days later with a large package of comments and amendments to the essential solutions in the law. So with unions, 11 of the 19 articles that are changing are uncoordinated. In doing so, it is increasingly noted that the law should be amended much more radically in order to be feasible. This postpones once again the actual application of the most important provisions of this law. Such unthinkable changes in the dead course, when the law is not actually applied among public servants, only create unnecessary unrest and anxiety. Sometimes it seems as if a specially well-paid group of people has formed themselves, who are heavily serving on the basis of changing this law and the related changes in computer programs, so it does not want to quickly end this endless story of changes and reforming the law that has not actually begun to apply. I think it would be much better if we took more time to change this extremely important law to consider carefully all the consequences and then accept it in a regular procedure and in such a detailed text that it could then really come into force and it would not be necessary to amend it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. However, the government has warned us that, due to the amendments adopted, the proposal for a law in the public sector has not been harmonised and has also prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 2 of the Law on Public Sector Wages, Article 5(2) of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, the word of functions is added for the word catalogue and the comma is added for it. It's a technical correction. Anybody want a word? I know that at the moment when I ask for a word on this amendment, of course, there can be a debate on everything and possible. I warn you that the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to allow it, so that, just on the amendment, and this harmonisation will be carried out by the word, in any other case I will really take away the one who would like to discuss it. Since no one wants a word, we will move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 39 votes against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted, so we can move on to a full vote on the law. Explanation of voice. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. So, I believe I will not ruin the perfect happiness expressed by Mr Bohinc when I say that I will abstain from this law. I regret that the procedure has now been carried out in such a way that it was not possible to clear up the situation that the four trade unions have warned after the committee has already done so, I think correctly. What gets me to abstain from this law is that it alerts these unions in the process of how the amendment taken by the committee took place, of this kind, to make us think that maybe someone in these, I'll say, coordinated at the expense of the National Assembly. From this point of view, I think it makes sense to be reserved for this. Of course, there is also a logical question whether this statement of will written by trade unions can be considered valid after a substantial change has been made later, irrespective of the fact that it is the idea of different trade unions. If this is the case, then the whole structure of the adoption of this law remains, of course, bitter. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's a taste. However, he certainly cannot bear it if we change this article to make things worse than this article does or that it would make no sense for the government not to put such a law into action. Rejecting marriage is a major problem at the moment because of the time of distress. It is also rude to support him, knowing of these questionable maneuvers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Voice explanation, Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go. I'm sorry. I didn't see your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The procedure of this law shows that, in fact, unions do not spend much government. During the negotiations, there were countless pictures and recordings of how well they were aligned, how some of the details still need to be regulated, and in the end, the law suspending one good part of the unions. I don't know why we're negotiating. You could send a union opinion, you could take them into consideration or not, and then make the marriage change you want. Even with the change of the law on the provinces, it was done this way. The opinions of the congregations, however, will be made provinces, whether taken into account or not. It's a principle, suspension of social dialogue, nothing else. Of course, you have run out of time, as well as wisdom and skill and much more. Therefore, this law is not worth supporting because it means the legitimacy of the suspension of social dialogue. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, in favour of 31 votes against 2. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is to be considered Proposal for an Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Equalization to Genetically Modified Organisms. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, the two representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mr Minister and Secretary, I very much welcome and invite the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Vice President! In this bill, which could at first sight be described as a pure technical law, we are in fact laying down a procedure whereby EU Member States and the Commission jointly take responsibility for products authorised to circulate across the single European market or originating from genetically modified organisms not to endanger the environment or human health. In dealing with genetically modified organisms, the European Union has adopted a so-called precautionary principle, has set itself up on a precautionary principle, has not banned genetically modified organisms, but through a series of mechanisms or procedures where it has tried to incorporate all possible existing knowledge, through scientific committees, has established a mechanism whereby each genetically modified organism must go through a long procedure before its use is allowed. This is of course important, for it is something new, something that modern science may not yet have fully mastered, and thus the precautionary principle is still appropriate. In 2002, we or you adopted the first Slovenian law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, which established this basic mechanism, but since the adoption of this law, last year the European Union has adopted four new EU Parliament and Council Regulations relating to the treatment of genetically modified organisms, namely the Regulation on the Cross-border Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms and Products, the Regulation on Genetically Modified Feed and Feeding, the Regulation on Traceability and Labelling of Genetically Modified Organisms and Products, and the Regulation on the System of Identifiers. And with this bill, these four regulations, which I have mentioned, are being transposed into our legal order. This complements the existing law on genetically modified organisms with the additional control mechanism provided for in the European Union. This Law on Genetically Modified Organisms does not apply to medicines, feed and food; these three things are subject to other laws which, on many occasions, refer to this law. This law also applies after the novelty to products from genetically modified organisms. These can be diverse, from products that we use in our everyday lives and are made from at least one genetically modified organism or are seedlings, etc. I therefore propose that you adopt the proposal for a law. However, another editorial amendment of the 10 Members Group was tabled, which, of course, we support and we are grateful to have pointed out the necessary editorial correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Branko Janca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. At its 24th emergency meeting, the Infrastructural Committee held a second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. Representatives of the proposed law, representative of Umnotera, Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which drew attention to some of the inconsistencies of the law. On this basis, the Committee has also drafted 15 of its amendments. The Law's representatives also pointed out in the opening recital that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not alter the principles and objectives of the law. The aim of the law is only to further align with Directive 2001 in that part concerning the integration of the competent authorities of the European Union and the Member States in procedures relating to the authorisation of intentional release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and placing on the market, and to comply with the four regulations that have just been adopted, as discussed by the Minister concerning the treatment of genetically modified organisms. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented by Mr Richard Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the adoption of a law on changes and additions to the law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, which was transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure following an urgent procedure. The basic law adopted by the National Assembly almost exactly two years ago regulates the handling of genetically modified organisms and lays down measures to prevent and reduce possible harmful effects on the environment. In this regard, particular attention is paid to the health of people who come into contact with genetically modified organisms, the conservation of biodiversity, the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the regulation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified organisms. Since there has been a change of legislation in the European Union, the law needs to be adapted accordingly. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the law. I also propose that the already mentioned radical amendment to Article 5 of the Act be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Well-known representatives of the government, Minister Kopač, dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, for the first time in the history of this National Assembly, we have dealt with a very unusual law in the history of the National Assembly, namely the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. At that time, the law was already open to a number of debates on the Committee, especially because it was one of those laws that affected a number of areas and activities. Also because the knowledge and behaviour of genetically modified organisms and the effects of genetically modified organisms in Slovenia are not many experts involved. At that time we adopted the law with the hope that in Slovenia we will act in accordance with the protection of the environment and the protection of the biodiversity of Slovenia, which is large, in accordance with this law. This way we are changing the law because of the four regulations adopted by the European Union in this area precisely because it has found, in various studies, that because of genetically modified organisms and influences that are still not known to experts and the consequences are not known, it is necessary to further protect individuals, trade, tracking and so on. Of course, because of harmonisation with the full legislation of the European Union, we have also placed this in the proposed amendments and additions to the law amending the law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms. I deeply hope, as well as all the Members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, that we will be able to respect such a demanding law, which, of course, also requires certain consequences in the organisation and actual operationalisation of the follow-up to these matters, in a way that respects all the objectives set by the law. In particular, government authorities will pay more attention in this area, in particular to some inspectorates who are empowered to do so. We will, of course, adopt and support the law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In particular, the amendments and additions to the Government proposal for a law constitute further harmonisation of the treatment of genetically modified organisms with the directives of the European Union in the work relating to the integration and participation of the competent authorities of the European Union and the Member States of the procedures related to allowing intentional release of GMOs into the environment by placing products on the market. The proposed law deals with an extremely sensitive area, as genetic technology is not yet used in Slovenia to the same extent as other developed countries. But development is progressing rapidly with us as well. The fact is that the use of genetic technology is still under-explored and there is also insufficient evidence in actual environmental and human health impacts. We see the problem mainly in the ignorance and ignorance of consumers about the possible presence of GMOs in food products on the Slovenian market. What is particularly hot since the opening of this with the European Union. In the parliamentary group, we welcome the provision of a law imposing on all persons who, within their activities, place GMOs or products on the market, the obligation to ensure traceability and labelling of products, which Slovenian legislation has so far not specifically laid down. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we also believe that the scope of the genetically modified organisms under this law will not yet be fully regulated. In particular, as regards verification and control of use, which will need to be further regulated in the future. Nevertheless, we will not oppose the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you. I would also like to invite Mr Alojz Sok to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I have nevertheless decided to perform here on behalf of the Group of Members. It seems to me that when we do not have much to say about a law on behalf of a group of Members, then we usually perform there from the bench, and when these discussions are more substantively full, let us step in and say the position of the group. Before I say this position, let me say one more event that happened to me here in Parliament today. Our fellow Member, Dr. Bernik, has banished one of his colleagues, said that the third time after the independence of Slovenia here in Slovenia, he was also here on the balcony and said, I noticed that you do not listen to each other in your Parliament. He says when someone talks, no one actually listens to him. And that's actually true, so the president must always [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u124	Mr Sok, I ask you to use your time, you do not have time to discuss the views of individuals when listening; in the end you will say that you are running out of time, please, Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u125	I'm not gonna run out of time. I am only helping to ensure that you are not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the fourth vote under our Rules of Procedure is not envisaged, and we know exactly how to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u126	This is not the fourth vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u127	No, it was before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u128	Mr Sok, the chairman shall determine when the meeting will continue, and this may be very soon after the third vote. So, please, time is running out. Genetically altered organisms are on the sidelines. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u129	Apparently, here you have to say exactly what you're the chairman of. As far as this law on genetically modified organisms is concerned. Of course, it bothers me very much that we are changing this law, which we only adopted two years ago, and as I have been told, we do not know, we do not know the consequences of these genetically modified organisms. The European Union has recently adopted these regulations. It accepted them at the pressure of America and these countries, which have long been large producers of genetically modified organisms, especially maize, then soybeans and other plants. In fact, because of this competition, these regulations have been adopted after years of controversy in the European Union's Parliament, and we are now at the door of the nose without much discussion, so we are implying this in our legislation. Why did the European Union clone? It has abstained from producing sweet corn in America and has allowed it to actually enter Europe and use it in this way. Although I personally think that genetically modified organisms mean certain advantages such as pest resistance, such as resistance to some natural weather phenomena, that there is no evidence of harmfulness of genetically modified organisms, at least until this point. I also believe that we do not know much about genetically modified organisms in Slovenia. And I listened to the performances of our MEPs who ran for the European Parliament, in Val 202 or Studio at 17 was the theme of GMOs, and everyone in turn advocated preventing the use of genetically modified organisms in Slovenia. With this addition to this law, of course, we are now releasing this matter and following a different course. We do not oppose ourselves personally and our Group of Members, but we think that following and implementing what the EU has adopted so quickly into national legislation would not show, because no one is forcing us to do so. And this is, of course, the message that I wanted to tell you on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. But I apologize for this introduction I've made. In fact, I wanted to draw attention to something that is happening regularly in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I don't think it's right for me, either, not to hear that it's too noisy. I am trying to make them listen, Mr Sok, but the presentation of the Group's position is not intended for this kind of debate. There's something else we can say outside. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the complementary proposal. As I said before, I apologize again, I missed the members of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Mr. Christmas, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u131	But I'll be shorter. The Minister announced correctly and said that this is a technical law that actually says how to protect the use of genetically modified organisms. Indeed, the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, which we are dealing with today, has only these technically listed matters that we will have to take into account in the country and in the EU. However, it is only right for the public to read from the 29th page of Rapporteur No. 74 paragraph saying: "Directive 2001/18 of the European Community directly regulates the information and participation of the public in the procedure for the authorisation of placing a product on the market by providing it with the competent authority of the EU. It shall also be the addressee for the opinion and comments of the public to be forwarded to the competent authorities of all Member States involved in the authorisation decision-making process. For this reason, the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organs proposes such amendments to the provisions governing public participation in the procedure and notification of products for which a marketing authorisation is granted. For this reason, all products with genetically modified organisms which are made from genetically modified organisms must also be marked to be so prepared." This year at the TAIEX seminar in Brussels, when we were representatives of the National Assembly, we were told the following under the point of genetically modified organisms. In 2001, it was the first directive to release such organisms into the environment. In 2003, the United States of America adopted restrictions. And of course, the big capital and the big chance of earning went on a little too fast and we also got genetically modified organisms to us. Two to three releases were made in Spain and in January 2003 the European Union had only registered 23 releases. So, we all move forward together in the world, we all want something more, and security is guaranteed only by such laws as we accept today. It would be difficult, as Mr Sok said earlier, to have some food today, if there were no genetically modified organisms. There wouldn't be any Uncle Ben's, but there wouldn't be a lot of corn. True, there have been some accidents, but it is important that these accidents were merely due to irregular processing. A genetically modified organism means that in the genes of an organism, any, even human, we can change the gene record. We only use what is useful to us humans. We probably will never achieve perfect protection; I'm talking about perfect, whatever you say, never in history will this happen to change anything. Unfortunately, history teaches us that many accidents happen, such as we have never planned, from nuclear energy as well as from genetically modified organisms. The law that we are considering today will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, because we are aware that, technically or what I have already said many times, we are still incorporating directives of the European Union into our laws, but we will soon only apply them; the directives will apply to the European Union whether we want to discuss them or not in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have only one amendment, ten members with first-signed Richard Beumann. As he explained himself, it is a two-word correction. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 Members and Members voted against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5. I ask, do qualified applicants wish to table an amendment in the third reading? [[They don't want to.]] I'm asking the legislature and the government officials if there's been a breach of law? [[No, no, ……]] So we can move on to making a full decision on the law. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Evil, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u133	There must have been a lot of you at the talks of American and Canadian farmers who came all over Europe to explain the negative benefits of this new millennium. In France, so-called war broke out because of these genetically modified organisms, and I don't see the slightest reason why we would play like a witch apprentice with some of the things that were done just to make the capital more profitable. And what's going to happen to these genetically modified organisms, and even God doesn't know. And that's why I don't see any reason why we should let one thing go to Slovenia that no one knows how it's gonna turn out. It is irresponsible for our generation not to talk about the generation of our children and grandchildren. Therefore, I shall absolutely vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much. No one else. We therefore vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 39 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We're moving on to 26. PERIOD OF THE DAY - Advocates the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Czech Republic on cooperation in the international combined transport. I'm asking for your attention. There are a few votes ahead of us, so I would like to ask for your attention and presence. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Foreign Policy Committee and the Assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sok, would you like to present your position? No, no, no. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading - to a decision on the bill.We vote. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Foreign Policy Committee and the Assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No one would want to discuss it. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended bill, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. He didn't even know that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 46 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a directive on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Allied Pool, the Framework Agreement on the Framework Agreement on the Savoy and the Agreement on the Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Agreement on the Savoy Basin and the Fisheries Scheme to the Framework Agreement. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Assembly in writing. Would Mr Sok like a word in order to present the position of the Group of Members? No, no, no. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we have 29 before us. Period of the day, that's the point with which we confirm the official re-examined texts of the law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we do not have the opportunity to discuss, as is not the case with procedural confirmations, so the Rules of Procedure lay down. There are 22 laws in front of us. The Rules of Procedure do not explicitly say that the National Assembly may decide on all proposals for refined texts prepared by professional services at once. However, I would propose a decision to adopt purified texts, all those ahead of us, unless anyone objects or anyone would like to be excluded and voted on separately by any of these purified texts. We all know that this is actually a confirmation of the work of our services when they prepare it. If you agree, we'd do it. So, I propose the following conclusion for adoption: "The official texts of the laws we have from A to U are confirmed." Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note, therefore, that the conclusion that the official purified texts have been adopted has been adopted. We are moving on to the continuation of the 13th item on the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on recognition and evaluation of education. On Tuesday 15.6., the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that I have not been informed of any non-compliance. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to a follow-up to the 10th item of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the draft law on changes and additions to the arms law. On Tuesday 15.6., the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third hearing would be held on the basis of Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled before the beginning of the consideration of the bill and that the assembly will only hold a full debate on the proposal for a law. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I also inform you that we have not been informed of any non-compliance, so we can move on to a full vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to a follow-up to the 8th item of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on general administrative procedure. On Tuesday 15.6., the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, we have decided that the third hearing will be held at this meeting. And we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Here too, I note that no amendments have been tabled until the draft law has been tabled, so the assembly will only be able to hold a full debate on the bill if anyone wants to. I'm asking if anyone wants to? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I was not informed that the amendments adopted would lead to non-compliance, so we will decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the bill on road safety. On Tuesday, 15.6.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have decided to hold a third hearing at this meeting. Here we can see when we move to the third reading that two amendments have been tabled, namely Articles 14 and 52. The proposal for both is the LDS Parliamentary Club. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. I am opening the debate on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. I'm asking who wants a word! [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 37 votes against 7. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate and we will move on to a decision on the amendment of the same applicants on Article 52. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 38 votes against no one. The vote was 38.) [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. Before deciding on the draft law, we are fully obliged to verify whether the amendments adopted may have led to disagreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u135	There has been no disagreement, but the government disagrees with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u136	I guess we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u137	Non-compliance was not due to the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u138	Looks like we were too quick. Both amendments were adopted. As far as I know, the government has drawn up in this case, in such a situation, already the harmonisation amendments. We don't have them on the bench yet. However, the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service usually cautions that the adoption of amendments leads to a lack of consistency. So I just asked you if there was a discrepancy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u139	There's been no discrepancy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u140	I interrupt this point, the government has tabled a harmonisation amendment to clear this up. We're moving to the next item in the agenda. I interrupt this point because a harmonisation amendment has been tabled at the front door and this misunderstanding between the government representative and the government's actions must be clarified. That's why I'm breaking up with that point. Please let me get this straight. We are moving on to the 12th item on the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. On Wednesday 16.6.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. I was also not informed that because of A, we have a harmonisation amendment here, this is what you now get on the bench, and the government reminds us that the harmonisation amendment to Article 17 needs to be adopted, so I will wait for another moment for you to have the harmonisation amendment all on the bench. [[...]] Is everyone on the bench? Yes, you do. I am therefore opening the debate on Article 17 and the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this Article. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u141	I merely suggest, Madam Vice President, that you wait five minutes for us to read this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u142	The Law on Courts, yes, yes, this law. The previous item in the agenda has been suspended to determine what is going on with the harmonisation amendments, and now, at the third reading, in the final vote on the law on the courts, we have decided on Tuesday when we adopted the law in the second reading. At 12: 00 a.m., the government presented us with a harmonisation amendment under the Law on Courts! The adoption, he says, of the amendment to Article 53 of the Committee's meeting requires a harmonisation amendment to Article 17, which amends Article 54 of the Act and refers to Article 53 of the Act in its text. The point of this harmonisation amendment is this harmonisation. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr. Petan, I'm waiting for your signal. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] He left the halls because I'm waiting for him to tell me he has no problem with the harmonisation amendment. [[...]] Mr Petan asked to check in the basic texts, or the harmonisation amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what it means. I am, of course, given that he has only come to the bench, you have this right of a Member and Members to demand that you teach Mr Petan about this. Now I'm waiting for him to let me know or discuss further if he realizes it's not a harmonisation amendment. I'll interrupt the session in ten minutes, so we don't keep you. Unfortunately, there are no representatives of the Ministry of Justice between us so that we can ask them. That would solve the problem. But we can go to broken point nine. Now we've got the harmonisation amendments to this point on our hands. Do you agree? Okay. I am therefore terminating the 12th item of the agenda and returning to the 9th item of the agenda, this is on the proposal of the Road Safety Act. We're ahead of making a full decision on the law. In the context of the third reading, the question was raised as to whether there might have been a lack of harmonisation of the law. I would like to take the floor and invite Dr. Council of Bohinc to explain this to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues! There has been a lack of harmonisation due to legislative complementarity, so we propose harmonisation amendments [[you have them distributed on the tables]] . This is an amendment to Article 149, where the number 24 is to be replaced by 21 in the seventh and ninth indents, due to the amendments to Articles 171 and 255. Furthermore, it is an amendment to Article 197 where the text "more than a year" is amended to read "more than 30 days or more than a year". And these two are everything. You also have a harmonisation amendment to Article 148 in your work, but we are withdrawing this harmonisation amendment after consultation with the legislative and legal services. This means that you only vote on the harmonisation amendments to Articles 149 and 197. We have found that there are no business reasons for Article 148 for the harmonisation amendment, so we withdraw it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, I see he agrees. First, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the harmonisation amendment to Article 149? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 149. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 197. Does anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. That is why we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, for 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives of the Ministry very much for their cooperation. We return to the 12th paragraph of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Courts. This point was also interrupted because we received the government's harmonisation amendment on the bench. Mr. Petan, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, I thank you for giving us the time to figure out what this means. However, because we were very fast and we wanted to find out quickly, we may have overlooked and searched needlessly for what might not be necessary, but at least we got to know what was going on. We have no comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Indeed, in this amendment, the text is deleted, namely the amendment to Article 17, in the fourth paragraph of Article 17. So can we move to a vote on this harmonisation amendment? Yes, you can. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 Members and Members voted against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Excuse me, I sincerely thank you for your cooperation. I think we've done a lot today, and even in a reasonable time. Mr. Kacin would like to introduce you to something. May I have your attention for a moment, Mr. Kacin?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and alternate members and members of the Committee, I would just like to remind you that today at 6 p.m. we will have a third meeting of the 76th emergency meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy, which will not be here in the National Assembly, but at the premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we will establish a link with our mission in Brussels to address progress and possible compromise at an intergovernmental conference. For technical reasons, due to the audio link, the meeting will take place at the premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All members and members are requested to attend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Good-bye.
