ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	We begin the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Ferri Horvat, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Franc Lenko, Peter Levič, Rudolf Može from 18:00 onwards, Aloise Peterle, Franci Rokavec, Franc Čebulj, mag. Janez Kramberger. We're moving to five. Period of the day -- that's a second defensively proposed law on the corporate income tax. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represented here by Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor and Mrs Milojka Kolar, State Secretary. Nice to meet you. So, first of all, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the government to further explain the bill if anyone wants it. Mr. Minister, Mrs. Kolareva? Who's it gonna be? Yes, please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Good morning. Very nice to meet you all. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law on corporate income tax, which is being dealt with today. As you know, the government adopted this bill in December and sent it to this esteemed State Assembly for consideration and acceptance. I appreciate that the debate held so far on that bill, in particular the debate on the competent home committee, was a committee on finance and monetary policy, which, as a parent working body, addressed this proposal, the debate was qualitative, the text of the law was supplemented by the amendments adopted by this Committee. It has followed the starting points and principles on which the law was based, so, of course, today we also propose to adopt, after the second reading, an amendment supported by the Government, an amendment tabled by the three parliamentary groups to Article 17. And all the other amendments are rejected. This proposal for a law means the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy after entry into the EU, which Slovenia has also set up with a programme for effective entry into the European Community. It is also consistent with the partners in the negotiations on a social agreement, but we must add that the space of manoeuvre is extremely limited. This is the 34 billion additional tax revenue that would result from the adoption of this law, and this increase in revenue is aimed at the second draft of the law, which is the Income Act, which means reducing or globalising the burden of all Slovenian citizens, especially those who are the weakest in income. At the same time, this increase in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, the greater opportunity to provide jobs and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by Slovenia's integration into the European Community. Since much attention has been paid to the area of facilitation in the discussions so far, it should be noted that, in order to promote further growth and progress, the incentives for investments in equipment, other than furniture and office equipment and intangible long-term assets, are being retained. For the same purposes, it is proposed, even in the light of the other tax arrangements we know in Europe and the world, that an additional investment relief, the purpose and purpose of which is to encourage investment in precisely defined equipment, is in R & D equipment. Furthermore, it is necessary to highlight other reliefs listed or proposed in that Act. A very important novelty given by this law is that it is possible to transfer an unused part of the relief to equipment during the tax period within the following tax periods. This is particularly important for new companies, fast growing firms and restructuring companies, as it gives this opportunity to exploit this relief mainly from the actual size of the profits, which, of course, new businesses that are just starting to operate do not have and will be able to benefit in the next five years. This is an important relief especially for these new companies and rapidly growing companies. Furthermore, there are proposed employment facilitations in the law, as the purpose of this law is to promote employment through these facilitations as well. A taxable person who, for an indefinite period and for at least two years, will employ a trainee or another worker who first enters into a employment relationship will be able to benefit from a tax relief of 30% of the salary of that person, for the first 12 months at the most. Of course, it will have tax consequences if the employer cancels the employment contract for such a person earlier than within two years of her employment. The new relief introduced by the bill is also intended to promote the employment of the highest quality labour force in companies that have not previously been employed in this sector. A taxable person who, for an indefinite period and for at least two years, employs a person who has a doctorate in science, will be able to impose an additional reduction in the tax base of 30% of that person's salary. Again for the first 12 months of these persons' employment. It is further maintained and upgraded also to facilitate the employment of disabled persons, which can be applied to facilitate the reduction of the tax base of 50% of the wages of these persons. However, if the employer employs disabled persons with 100% disability and deaf persons, the relief will be equal to 70% of the wages of these persons. This relief for the employment of persons with disabilities is being built up by the law, which is intended to encourage employers to employ persons with disabilities above the quota laid down by the law governing the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Such relief shall be incorporated into the employment regime of persons with disabilities, which shall be introduced by that law. It also replaces the regime, which is now established by the Law on corporate tax, which exempts the tax on disabled companies, which is, of course, contrary to the State aid rules and thus prohibits state aid. In addition, let me mention a donation relief whereby taxpayers can reduce the tax base for grants to a maximum of 0,3 of the total tax revenue of the tax period. If, of course, they donate this money for humanitarian, charitable, scientific, educational, cultural, sports, ecological, religious and similar purposes, of course, to residents, legal persons of the Republic of Slovenia who are, of course, established under special rules to carry out such activities. Let me also present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 18.3. on the proposals of the amendments tabled to the supplementary proposal of the Law on corporate income tax for second reading. As I have already mentioned, the Government does not agree with the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to delete the text of the third paragraph of Article 13. The Government considers that this paragraph is unnecessary because it constitutes the specificisation of the second paragraph of Article 13. It shall determine who is deemed, in particular, to be related to the persons referred to in the second paragraph of this Article, in which it is generally stipulated that the associated persons are deemed to be residents if they are directly or indirectly linked to capital, management or control and one influence or have the possibility to influence the decision-making of the other person or if there are other relationships between the resident and the other person which differ from the relationship between the unrelated persons, in particular the relationship with the person who has a more favourable tax position and could be dealt with under different conditions if this more favourable tax situation were not. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that such clarification is necessary in Article 13, paragraph 3, for the sake of legal certainty of the debtors. The Government also disagrees with the amendment to Article 49, where in the second paragraph of this Article and in the first sentence the number 10 is replaced by the number 20. The proposed amendment is the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the amendment because it is an increase in the relief that would affect the basic objectives and the starting points on which the law is based, as well as by reducing the tax base on the budgetary revenues of this tax, which is not the purpose of this law and not the overall tax reform. In other words, the adoption of such an increased relief from 10% to 20% on the other hand would, of course, mean that general relief in the proposal for an income law should be reduced. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also does not agree that the law would be supplemented by the fact that an undertaking which is mainly engaged in those activities which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia designates as important for the strategic economic development of the country and at the same time carried out in the geographical areas of Slovenia, which are under average development, measured by gross domestic product per capita, could impose an additional reduction in the tax base of 40% of the invested amount in intangible and tangible fixed assets. The government's view is that tax relief is not an appropriate instrument to promote such development as is the result of this amendment. Relief, as proposed, also constitutes unlawful State aid. It shall, however, take into account the rules on the granting of State aid, limit the purposes for which this relief is granted. This, of course, encourages the exercise of this relief in the case of the debtors, and the implementation by the tax authority is complicated and difficult to control. In addition, the application of such relief is linked to conditions or criteria other than those laid down by tax legislation. Thus, it is not consistent with the purposes pursued by the proposed law. This is a series of reliefs that have been redesigned in the bill and are, of course, all the more meaningful. However, in the case of the benefits contained in the law, it is allowed to transfer the unused part of these reliefs, as in the case of loss, the transfer over the next period, which makes it possible for the debtors, for example at the beginning of their operations, to mitigate this tax burden. It is also a significant increase in the level of relief that would have fundamentally affected the basic targets on which this proposal is based, as well as the overall tax reform. In this regard, the Government further explains that, in accordance with the transitional provisions for 2005, in view of the expiry of the concessions provided for in the existing Law on corporate tax, it also continues to facilitate investment in intangible fixed assets, namely, Article 80, which provides that the taxable person for 2005 may further reduce the tax base of 20% of the invested amount in tangible fixed assets, except in motor vehicles and intangible fixed assets, but mostly in the amount of the tax base, if investments in these assets are in Slovenia. And a further reduction in the tax base of 20% of the invested amount in equipment, again, of course, are exempt from personal motor vehicles, furniture, office equipment, but mostly in the amount of the tax base when it comes to investment in equipment and intangible assets in Slovenia. Stem, of course, wanted to reduce, gradually, through transitional periods for the economy, reliefs to the systemic provisions set out in the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also does not agree with the amendment to Article 52 to add a new paragraph, which states that special reliefs may be granted to debtors who are religious communities where the amounts of payments are in money and nature intended to finance educational, cultural, religious, religious and social charity activities. The motions for this amendment are sent to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group and the New Slovenia Group of Members. The Government does not agree with such an amendment because the purpose of the amendment is to offer relief to all debtors who donate for certain purposes listed in this amendment and to certain organisations. The upper limit of relief is also set which is the same for all debtors. Such a special selective relief for religious communities is therefore not part of the concept of the law or this article. Moreover, under Article 52 of the Religious Community, they are equal to other debtors and may grant relief under Article 52 for the amount of payments in money and nature for humanitarian, charitable, scientific, educational, cultural, sports, ecological and religious purposes. Therefore, the Government finally proposes, honourable Members and Members, that the National Assembly consider this proposal for an amended law in second reading to support the amendment to Article 17 and reject all other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a mother's labour. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! That bill was considered by the Committee at two meetings. In view of the content and the issue and the many comments made by the interested public, which was almost mostly also present at the meeting itself, we have prepared a complementary proposal for a law to be discussed below. We took note of the opinions or comments of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, the comments of the Red Cross of Slovenia, the associations of investment fund management companies, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Council of Experts on Tax and Financial Issues, the Association for Trade of the same Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. All these representatives of these institutions were present at the meeting and actively cooperated and assisted in the drafting of the complementary bill, by which we tried to improve the law. The Committee also took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its debate and in the adoption of the amendments. We have paid the utmost attention to the provisions of the proposed law relating to the proposed level of the tax rate and to tax incentives for investment, employment and donations. I would say that, following a broad and substantive debate, the Committee adopted the following amendments and revisions or amendments to Articles 10, 13 and 17 to Article 26 to Article 49 to Article 52, Article 68, Article 69 and Article 70 to Article 84. Article 80 and amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that we support and reject all amendments that are in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 34th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are therefore going straight to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.3.2004. It's one piece of paper. We're just starting with Article 13. So I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Who wants a word? Dr. Bayuk. Anyone else this minute? Please, here's Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If I understand you correctly, it's about Article 13.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Article 13(3)
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We are once again Members of New Slovenia have tabled this amendment, which has already been dealt with on the working body. Why is that? Above all, it is the clarity that is urgently needed in tax legislation. If you look at Article 12, I would focus on this, very much, I would say, specifically and in detail define the tax base for dealing with connected persons. And this concept of connected persons is very, I would say exactly, if only, because we didn't have any comment that we could write it even more precisely. The fourth and fifth paragraphs make it very clear what the concept of this law refers to. Then we come to Article 13 and there is a definition of the tax base for the business of connected persons who are residents. And when it comes to the third paragraph, but a different language is used, this is a different diction than in the previous article, in paragraph 4 and 5, which actually explains what persons are connected to this law. And what bothers us? In particular, we are concerned that the third paragraph of Article 13 which we propose to delete is not related to Article 12, but that the question is reopened and defined, "the persons involved in the second paragraph of this Article shall be considered in particular the person who is who", and what bothers us most is that this word is "particularly the person who" because it does not specifically relate to Article 12. And when we speak in particular about the person who was on the home work body there was a debate about it. And the representative of the government, Madam Secretary of State, explained and also used the concept in English and that it is 'in particular', it is called 'right especially this'. This would be acceptable for us if, in the third paragraph of Article 13, we specifically referred to the preceding Article, to paragraphs 12, fourth and fifth, but not to that effect. And that's why we're proposing that this be deleted. What does it mean if this is deleted? Not to delete the concept of connected persons, but because this would not, in our proposal in Article 13, then the concept of connected persons would remain that defined in Article 12. So, to understand each other, Nova Slovenija does not object. What if we were to oppose the use of the concept of connected persons? While we don't like certain things in this definition of connection, we don't know why 25%, I think in the Slovenian area 25%, that someone owns at least 25%, that's slightly too high, in every way is too high. The government has only referred and this article is closed and we cannot influence it now, but since the situation is such that we have clearly defined in Article 12 what the concept of connected persons is and in Article 13 we are applying a different dictatorship, we propose that this dictatorship be abolished in Article 13(3). Because if this goes away, not that there will be a gap, but it will be complemented by a single concept of what it is, namely, Article 12, paragraphs 4 and 5. I hope it's clear. There would be no way to create a gap. It may, however, arise if this third paragraph is retained in Article 13, because it speaks only of what this should be, but is not clearly linked to the preceding Article. So it's mostly clarity in marriage. To make it clear what is actually going on, we propose that this should be deleted. Because if this is deleted, then Article 12 will apply. I hope that's clear. If anyone else needs an explanation, of course I'm ready. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Who else would like a word with Article 13? No one else. If there is no further discussion, of course I conclude it. We're moving on to Article 17. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the LDS Club of Members and the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I'm moving on to Article 49. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? We're at Article 49. Mr. Christmas, Mr. Cuckoo. Please, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, today's President. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 49, to the second paragraph, where the debtor should be able to impose additional reductions in the tax base at a level not more than 10% as proposed, but 20% of the invested amount in R & D equipment, etc. It is true that this proposal has already been rejected on the Committee on Finance, and we have repeated it. We have also written this in the final part of the report on tax incentives for investing companies in research and development of activities prepared by a group of experts from the members of the European Union to order the Directorate-General for Research for the purposes of the European Commission. The Commission recommends that Member States and accession countries pay particular attention, in accordance with their commitments under the Lisbon Strategy, to tax incentives for investment in development and research activities, in order to facilitate efforts by their Member States to intensify innovation activities. Tax incentives for research and development are one of the key factors that will ensure the satisfactory competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the European market. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the degree of relief should be increased to 20% of the amount invested in this equipment. It is true that on Friday we also received the opinion of the government, which on the other hand says, in the last sentence: "The government emphasises that there are other ways of encouraging people who have the same or similar aims as the proposed amendment. For example, direct encouragement." Whenever this House is talking about direct incentives, we have problems. Let us only remember the law on coherent regional development. A lot of things don't move anywhere. We therefore propose a concrete solution; whoever invests in R & D equipment should apply a 20% relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I now have the following speakers: Mrs Vizjak, Tukjat, Bajuk, Grošelj. Jerovšek too. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, the system has proven quite, regionally speaking, a neutral tax approach, and, of course, the resulting award of incentives on the basis of project programmes has proved to be ineffective. As we look at the development scheme of individual parts of Slovenia, we see that the differences between regions, the differences between individual parts of Slovenia as regards development, and not least the interest in investment, after the opening of new jobs, of course, are increasing and are increasing from day to day. This is shown by all indicators of development across different areas. A brief approach that is not selective and neutral to this view has unfortunately not produced fruit. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and our partners Novi Slovenije, we therefore believe that this approach is worth changing. Therefore, we are also proposing an amendment to Article 49 under which investors which, of course, invest in those economic sectors which the government considers to be strategically important for the further economic development of Slovenia and which invest in areas that are under-averagely developed in relation to gross domestic product per capita to receive specific tax incentives. I think it is an instrument that tax policy must be an instrument with which some countries encourage or hinder something. I, however, accept the views, theoretical views on the issue of tax reliefs, that they do not produce results. But who doesn't get the results and at what level don't they give the results? Macroeconomically speaking, let's say roofs, probably. In the context of some deliberate targeted measures, however, I believe that they would produce results. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the taxable person, who mainly carries out the activities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia designates as important for the strategic economic development of the country, and at the same time does this activity, without being established, in the geographical areas of Slovenia or in the development regions that are under average developed in the measurement of gross domestic product per capita, may impose additional tax relief, not only in equipment, but also in real estate investments. I think that this is and that tax policy must also be an important instrument of economic development in the Slovenian countryside or in those parts that are depressing. With this, of course, we will decentralise the country, thus encouraging investors to invest where they might not be if there were no such incentives. For we know that it gives investors a very interesting part of Slovenia, which is already economically developed, because it is also logistically developed and rich and infrastructurely equipped, but we do not encourage investment and economic development in perspective industries, I stress, in areas where this would still be necessary for some normal development of this rural area. Of course, this is the basic purpose of this amendment and also of these solutions. We find it useful to enforce it. Unless, of course, it actually causes investments in these areas, including effects, there will be no negative government cashier's visa. However, if it does not impose reliefs, there will be no effects, but if the existing reliefs provided in this title will be paid to the State in the long term, certainly through smaller social transfers to unemployment in these parts, because people will certainly be employed here, and not least through the tax collected, either from profits, because companies will operate there, or from other titles of the tax collected. In short, we think this amendment is useful and welcome for more coherent regional development and, of course, for the economic development of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you. As has already been said, however, it is too little and too loud that the aim and purpose of the reliefs is to influence the flow or direction of capital. It is extremely important that the country takes this policy very seriously, to identify the needs to redirect capital and resources, to a greater extent, to a lesser extent. It is certainly important to note in this respect that in Slovenia the concentration of capital is observed, economic growth in the Ljubljana region is inadequately higher than even in other centres, such as Maribor and similar, that we do not talk about other remote places. In politics, however, we have very clearly defined ourselves on coherent regional development. This means that we will make sure that capital and investment also flows to places where, in fact, the number of unemployed people is growing enormously, where jobs are being lost, where already obsolete factories are falling, where in fact small entrepreneurs do not have development options. Murphy's marriage, if we don't do anything, it's always gonna get worse. And where there is a better mechanism than in facilitations, a better mechanism for redirecting capital evenly, or also to places where it is still needed for new investments, for job creation and so on. However, in this law, of course, there is a fundamental error as to the facilitations that we do not have an analysis of the effects of the incentives and the analysis of the need to redirect capital. We also have no analysis in this law, which would be extremely important, of capital ownership, which is extremely important. After the end of the transition, if we are talking about some end of the transition, we should, however, do a state analysis on the ownership structure. Because then we could talk about how we tax this capital, where more, where less. How we will approach the discovery of capital, to identify the tax base. How we'll actually monitor fair tax collection if that's what you want. We don't have this analysis. Only in the newspapers do we find that, for example, with an internal ransom or a ransom, some 400 billion of our previous social assets have been purchased by the manager’s ransom. And the managers in Slovenia, these entities or managers who led these legal entities, are, say, 1,100 in Slovenia. If everyone has taken advantage of this ransom, then everyone has received 340 million from this title. Because some, say, what kind of a third, bought out nothing because they didn't have anything, they stayed for, say, 500 million, 600 million dollars, that's, say, 20 personal homes, 20 family houses, reached capital with an internal ransom. Surely none of these managers bought it from their wages, from their blisters, but from some other way. But I will not talk about this injustice, which has actually happened to Slovenian citizens and the Slovenian state, but I am talking about the urgent analysis of capital ownership and the analysis of connected persons who, of course, manage this capital and other capital. It is only when we have this analysis that the country does not want to do so, despite our warnings at every time the state budget is adopted, because I do not know whether it knows it or not. If she can't, of course she's incompetent, but if she doesn't, she's so much more inappropriate to keep running these things. However, the amendment proposed by the SDS is for the area of regional development but an attempt, a proposal to take at least a little into account and implement this basic policy direction on coherent regional development. If, of course, this amendment is not adopted, then I do not know how our beautiful declaration on the development of Slovenia, on the consistent development, how to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course we support this amendment. We're also co-proposers. I listened very carefully to the representative of the government, who in the introductory words rejected all the amendments and, among other things, explained why they object specifically to this. But I would like to go back to the essential question. Now, of course, we are talking again about dragons and trees, instead of looking at what is happening to us when we look at the image of the entire forest. I understand the Minister of Finance and, in general, the entire Ministry of Finance, who, of course, is responsible for providing certain funds for the financing of our budget, and have been successful, of course, and we have a large deficit, but that is another question, I will not go into this today. But the fact is, it happens to them because they tie their hands first, and then they talk nice, and we can't. That's the whole point of the problem. This is exactly what the opposition has been saying all the time, how we come to these questions. The government has consciously decided to protect certain people It is mainly about the capital gains that we have already discussed here and, of course, because it has given up because of its political visions, interests and, I don't know, they should explain for themselves why they are doing this. We have our assessment that they work in the service of certain interests, which we should not. That's our view. But if they give it up, then they're in trouble. Of course they're having problems, and they're having problems. That's why they're proposing things like this. For example, in the Income Law we have long debates and long articles, which are reliefs, and then they simply cut off what was so insignificant, from 3% to 2%. That's a third of a page. But if you look at this law of legal persons, it's funny what's at all a relief that a legal person can use at 0.3%. 0.3%. That's if it was zero, it'd be nothing, but 0.3 is almost nothing. [[...]] So, what's happening to us in Slovenia? In Slovenia it is happening that we do this because they do not want the government to extend taxation and include those who could actually help the common treasury in any way, because it has decided to do so and then cannot implement the essence of fiscal policy. As you know, fiscal policy is not only to provide funds, it also has a dimension and a component of which my colleague Tsukati spoke about how to direct investment flows, including investment in certain areas that are useful for the common good in the assessment of the country. Now we have a coherent regional development here. How many words have been said, but when the moment of truth comes, there is nothing we can do, because there is no such flexibility. First we give up flexibility and then we cry that we don't have it. Besides that, there are other things that we have already discussed here, why in Slovenia we cannot talk about using fiscal policy to solve the key problems of our society, such as the housing issue of newly created families. Yeah, because we can't. Why can't we? Because we don't want to, that's why we can't, that's why. So, I propose this amendment, and I understand the Minister and the government, who says, yes, everything will fall apart, and the house you built will collapse without the right foundation. Of course, this will force you to review the whole approach of this tax reform, which is not a tax reform at all. That is the point of our problem, that we will now continue to discuss whether this tree is real or not, but we do not want to face the image of the forest, which is what it is. Slovenia has so far been and after this so-called tax reform will still be at the lowest level, as regards taxation of capital revenues and among the highest perhaps slightly less, but still among the highest when it comes to taxation of labour income, not to speak among the highest, as regards taxation of the middle layer in Slovenia. This is a reality and that is why we support this amendment, precisely because we cannot and must not give up this dimension of fiscal policy. Yeah, what are we gonna do? Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of this, we all know that monetary policy will no longer be, which is in line with European legislation and the European Central Bank. What remains of the European Union? Fiscal policy. Regardless of what the guidelines are, such and different, we will also have to learn that we will need to know our interests, the interests of our national development in Europe, as others do. I do not see any problems in this, Slovenia needs and needs some coordinated regional development. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to achieve this, but what have we had since this government? There's a new ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. And I will turn this attention both to point 1, the amendment to Article 49, and also to point 2 after the third paragraph of the same Article. As far as the first amendment is concerned, I must say that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, when we defined ourselves to the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons, we were only trying to take account of some basic starting points. As the first starting point, of course, it is only on the basis of the accompanying documents that we have found that the average effective tax rate for the profits of legal persons in Slovenia is about 12.3%. And of course we also want to see an effective tax rate foreseen under the new law between 17.8 and 19%. We have also taken into account that the component of this tax reform, in addition to the law, is also the Income Act and that, of course, we have also adopted these expected effects which are expected to result from this law around [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Which has increased us by about 34 billion tolars. [[...]] That is why, of course, this was due to the government's solutions, with this proposed tax rate and also the type and amount of tax base. We have also taken into account the assumptions that the government has also indicated in this implementation that it has also been in the process of thinking that even all tax reliefs from corporate incomes would be eliminated, since in this way taxes on paid salaries could even be abolished. Therefore, we have also fully supported this first paragraph of Article 49 in our starting point or in our opinion on Article 49 of this Law. All we had was a suggestion that in this overall relief which the debtor could apply at the level of these 10% of the invested amounts in R & D equipment, innovation should also be taken into account. It is precisely because of these common positions that we have drawn up in our parliamentary group that we have not voted in favour of this amendment, or we have not supported it, so that I think and that the amendment in this form has not been adopted. However, as regards the second amendment relating to the third paragraph and the addition of a new fourth paragraph, in Article 49, I would say roughly that the very approach presented by the representative of the Social Democratic Party, which considers this to be a selective approach and would also encourage investments in sub-medium areas, i.e. in less developed regions, in fact in a period of time, to be a condition, as well as a new set-up company dealing with strategically important activities, and that this tax policy would also be a means to reduce the gaps between the development of individual regions. Otherwise, I could understand if we were talking about a law on coherent regional development. However, I am certainly not in this context to try to resolve this issue through the law on the income of legal persons. As the report states, I think that a calm soul can say that this would be a very serious discriminatory approach, since, last but not least, as stated, it is only necessary to take into account the Code of entrepreneurship, according to which a different rate of taxation per region in the state would be considered a tax-damaging practice. And not least represents, I would say such a solution or such an intervention as an insufficient element of State aid. I will not quote any more widely the views drawn up by the government on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, but I would also remind some of the adoption of the law on the closure of the Trbovlje mine - Hrastnik in 1999 and 2000, which, of course, was adopted as "lex specialis" and should also be tried in the last part of the law, which also provides for the possibility of resolving the so-called regional development of Zasavje. The Social Democratic Party, of course, was also the initiator of the call for this referendum, has tabled amendments to this law and these amendments have also been adopted to take account of the law on coherent regional development when implementing the third part of the mine closure law. This means that we agree on some principles, some positions, of course, which must then apply even when they are either making a law or amendments to the Social Democratic Party, about equal conditions for all equal participants, whether they are legal or other entities in our space. Not least, the matter has become as complicated as you know that even in the time of the Bajuk government - I am talking about the 49th Article - even in the time of the Bajuk government, including the funds provided in the 2000 state budget, have not been activated due to the retention of these funds by the then Minister for Economy, Mr Zagozno. And these are the kind of examples that move us to give due respect to the legal order that we accept in this national assembly. Because of these and other views, which I have also spoken of, of course, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, as I have mentioned, we will not either support the amendment under number 1 or not under number 2, because it does not have its own economic logic in the content of this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you. Replica, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the first time in this term, I will speak to you about the Bajuk government. Because I don't normally answer, because I know that there's a lot going on for that short period, but what we've just heard clearly needs some explanation. I would like to tell you that when we provisionally accepted the responsibility of the executive, the budget for 2000 was already over 80 % on the basis of the report we received from the Ministry of Finance in the transfer. That the revenues were heavily planned much more than in fact that we received reports at the first meetings, that the deficit would be at least 16 billion dollars and that we immediately decided on austerity measures of nine billion, and that there would be 6, forgive slightly over six, and that there would be eight. Because we have seen that in the revenues planned for 2000, there was a single line of revenue of 8 billion in the area of old unpaid taxes. Therefore, we first decided on austerity measures as soon as possible. But we've started to raise the question of what's going on with this 8 billion tolar line. 8 billion tolars were envisaged to be paid for old taxes, realisation by mid-year was only 250 million, so one small and very small proportion of all of this, and in fact we also had to continue to implement further austerity measures. So, I don't want to, I understand the political period, it's nice to hang up such or other things, but as for the implementation of the budget in 2000, the government has already spent by mid-year and has already compromised so that there was virtually no flexibility above 80% of everything that was available. So, dear colleague Grošelj, you have reached the wrong address. Ask former Minister Gaspari, ask Drnovska what happened in the first six months of 2000. Wrong address, sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Good. Now it's not the 49th paragraph, by the way. Thanks for the explanation. Mr Jerovšek has a word, in order. Excuse me? A replica of the replica is a rare thing. Come on, let's see what this replica is like.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	And before that, Visjak checked in.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	No, but Visac can't have a replica. That's my call.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Mr. Bayuk, I have a few things to fix. The 2002 budget provided 838 million. In order to provide 600 million funds for the Sava region. On September 15, 2000, we waited three and a half hours before your Minister's cabinet, Dr. Zagozno, who, of course, promised that this restructuring programme would be designed on that day to be concluded and that this contract would also be signed at 4:30 p.m. and then submitted to the Council for the Government's structural policy. Although we waited until that time, he said that the obligation failed to sign this and, of course, the result was that not even a tolar had been provided of these funds in the budget in 2000. On the contrary, with your activity, it has also been achieved that the funds originally planned at 8 billion 316 for development have been reduced to 4 billion 900 in five years and this commitment will not be implemented within five years, but will be extended to 7 years by amending the law. This is accurate information and data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Now, we have two options. To stick to the Rules of Procedure and move forward in line or to make another exception, given that Mr Grošelj used Article 49 for a slightly broader discussion, if I may say so, and of course now we must give the former Prime Minister a word, because it is no different.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Very briefly, I'll be very grateful. Dear colleague Grošelj, it is a pity that you only mentioned how long you waited on September 15th, three hours, how long have you been waiting, where have you been knocking and which door have you been knocking on in the first seven months of 2000? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Now we're really closing this thing. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, both amendments to Article 49 concerning investment relief will, of course, be supported. Yesterday a symposium was held in the State Council called How to increase added value in Slovenian companies or somehow and there the renowned representatives mainly from the development and research activities pointed out that the government in the current law is acting in a disstimulating way, does not recognise major tax incentives for development and research activities, especially in medium-sized enterprises. The disstimulating government is also active in the area of equitable regional development. Unable to say because it supports centralisation to make this an instrument of economic development so that fiscal policy can contribute to more equitable regional development. Yesterday at this symposium, representatives of medium-sized enterprises said, of course, that the government stimulates only large capital, and the fact is that this Slovenian government, the ruling hierarchy, protects only large capital with covered solutions in this law. Their capital gains will be protected in all possible ways and this is happening and this protection is being done through the Forum 21 hunters, who in fact in this country are already ruling, as evidenced by yesterday's vote in this National Assembly. Medium, small enterprises receive penalties, destimulations, etc. And look, the government has rejected both my amendments or all my amendments, if you've already made sure that it works on the basis of guidelines, codes and I don't know what. Listen to how we should believe the Slovenian government and this part of the ruling coalition based on yesterday's elections here in the National Assembly. How can we believe it? They talk to the president of the National Assembly and look him in the eye to, say, support his candidates. They provide here five minutes before the vote and although they have been duly warned on the committee that they are working with a fig in their pocket, that they are untransparent, dishonest, do just that and are essentially approaching this country's authoritarian regime of the Belarusian type, whose role model or president was meeting here in Slovenia, he was obviously teaching how to do it. Force the President of the country to resign. Obviously! And should such a government and such a majority believe that it will do something for the Slovenian economy, for a small entrepreneur, for a medium-sized entrepreneur? Here in this government, in this majority, there is an intolerance to the average person, to the average entrepreneur. When you see it, it's literally the xenophobia of these people. And by no chance, after the vote here, I said, "Did you hold a fig in your pocket again?" Even for Engelman, for which we said, for principle reasons, what bothers us, a representative of this government majority said, "Don't grieve for the Jew." He says it's Jewish. Such an xenophobia here to show, I [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] Yeah, sorry, that was said. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	I agree. [[...]] Mr Jerovšek, article 49 is the subject of discussion and I ask that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	and I ask that we limit the debate to that part that is under discussion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Excuse me. I am talking about the fact that I cannot trust the government's arguments when they reject these amendments. What's going on here is you're tearing down anything that could stimulate some development in this country. And for that, please imagine what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I always thought we were at the point of corporate income tax, but obviously the matter is a little different. However, I will try to talk about Article 49, the first and second amendments to this article, which I think is a useful amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is supposed to have 10 invested amounts in R & D equipment with 20%, but I think that this figure is perhaps even too small. This is a reduction in the tax base for investing in R & D equipment. If we look at the case of Finland and Ireland - this will also concern my last question to the government - we know that these two countries are based on these R & D activities. I therefore want to know what reliefs are envisaged in these two countries to invest in R & D equipment. I know the case, for example, Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, but research and development activities are also strongly represented by this instrument of tax relief in its legislation. So I'd like to repeat again if you could tell me what that's like in Finland and Ireland. I will support this amendment. As for the second amendment: it is partly true that this material should be incorporated into the law on promoting coherent regional development, but this law, too, we know what results it has achieved so far. Therefore, I see no reason why we should not try to change this in some way through tax instruments, because I doubt the success of the law on coherent regional development and the rejection of this amendment in concrete terms, in my opinion, means an additional passive structural policy, which is already happening in our country, and the results are also visible from the numbers and the backlog of certain underdeveloped areas. In particular, our country's market niche is, among other things, tourism, I think, and the adoption of this amendment could have a strong impact on the development of this activity. I would like a reply from the Government, in particular why it opposes the amendment to Article 1, and a comparison with the Finnish and Irish models of these facilitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak has the floor. Then I have Mr Drobnik, Mr Tank and Mr Pohorec on my list. Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. See, it is wrong to think that even in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not aware of the inefficiency of certain tax reliefs so far. I fully agree that tax reliefs in real estate, in buildings that did not serve any economic development in Slovenia, did not have any effects or had negative effects. That is why I also accept in some way the approach of the government and the Ministry of Finance to be more restrictive in this approach and to cut these tax reliefs and, in fact, to abolish them. Because, following the proposal of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, there are no more tax exemptions for any investment anywhere in real estate. I can, unfortunately, refer here to a respected fellow Member of the Grošlje, who is constantly -- probably having problems with memory or the present -- talking about a Social Democratic party. We have been the Slovenian Democratic Party for some time now. Three times he mentioned the 'Social Democratic Party', he probably meant his party, the United List of Social Democrats, which is the only Social Democratic Party here today in this House. Nor can I disagree with the fact that a selective approach to tax relief, as proposed, is even an intervention in unlawful state aid; as a selective approach is introduced by the government and the ministry in this approach, because we have a selective approach to active employment policy, we introduce inequality according to the category of people. For first-time job seekers, or those who have been in the employment agency for more than a year, are disabled and thus receive special tax benefits, which is right and what we support. And don't tell me that one other instrument of selective approach is contrary to the principles - it isn't. It is true, however, that it may be a bit unusual, as the position and Slovenian regional development is also somewhat unusual. Because, despite some principled government commitment to a more equitable development after Slovenia, it has produced exactly the opposite results: the differences in development in Slovenia are increasing. And tax policy can be a very effective instrument to reduce these differences. Because at the very beginning it turns out, because when someone invests in a new company - we went to a number of places: if it is a new company, if it is an economical perspective, if it is a certain period, and if it is an area that is under-averagely developed. That's what you call a lot of cha-cha, a very targeted measure. And in my opinion, it does not constitute illegal State intervention in terms of state aid schemes. That is why, after all, it would not be easy to wave your hand and say, "If, this matter is a foreigner in the European tax system, it is inappropriate without anyone having to do any analysis in this area." I think it is valid to enforce it and it is not discriminatory, and I have to say this, because it does not discriminate against anyone, everyone has the same conditions in the same area and within the same framework. [[...]] Everyone, not discriminatory, applies to everyone under the same conditions. This is probably the attitude of a respected fellow Member from a history that burns and hurts. Finally, I am surprised that Zasavje belongs to less developed regions and this measure would allow for the arrival of a new, fresh, healthy capital anywhere in Zasavje, whether domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	That'll be a replica, Mr. Groschel, won't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Dear Mr. Vissiak would only fix it. My debate was also part of the year 2000. At the time, she was the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, but I know that she is now the Slovenian Democratic Party. If it turns out from the magnetogram that I also misapplied after that time or according to your new name, of course I apologize and I will also propose a revision of the magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	I fully support this amendment - why. Because this is a concrete contribution to the implementation of the supportive environment for entrepreneurship and coherent regional development. In that law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, there are basically only principles, no instruments to do so. When we talked about this law being too specific, we made these remarks that instruments should be incorporated into other laws. And here, in particular, is now just such an instrument - Mr Grošelj, who previously stated that you will not support which objective, which guides the operationalisation of the support environment for depressed regions, for coherent regional development and yet implies that the government, this country, also has some kind of economic strategy. I don't know if he has it or not, or if I am, or if I am, or if I'm there, but on that basis, it could also be done. So, relief. This is a suitable instrument and I think it is also in line with European standards. When you mentioned State aid earlier that there was no appropriate enthusiasm at the time, I can tell you that such a system of indirect aid, non-direct aid, is much more effective. We had direct aid cases at TAM and what objectives they had achieved - nothing happened, or money was paid by creditors or landed in some accounts in Austria, what the National Assembly had provided through direct aid. In short, in this way it is much more appropriate to ensure coherent development, because those who are operators have the opportunity to do so and it depends on their quality of operation whether the aid achieves the objective and, if targeted in the right way, will benefit from this. In short, this is the operationalization of the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, and I welcome everything as well. I'd like to say that I'm going to support both of these amendments. The first is because it gives support primarily to the learning society and investment in knowledge and also in the application of this knowledge is then further in practice. Secondly, because there is something concrete to be done for rural areas, and we now have the opportunity, in fact, to reach out to this area by means of tax law and to prepare a substantially different environment for the development of entrepreneurship in the areas at stake, as we have done so so far. The fact is that we have adopted a law on coherent regional development, the fact is that we also have more than five, six years of funding to promote coherent and regional development, and the fact is that, over the course of this period, we find that this coherent regional development is increasingly inconsistent or that regional differences are increasing and more importantly, differences within the region are also increasing. Because only rich areas are being strengthened, so to speak, those developing strong congregations and development centers, especially the city’s municipalities, while the countryside is simply whimpering. And perhaps it would make sense to ask why they are also increasing within the regional gap and are also emerging. In particular, because we have connected a larger or smaller part of the periphery, rural areas, poor perspective areas to the successful larger centres, and this area has been raised to a fairly high average. When the region gained this high average, it lost some form of non-perspective regional status, it is said that the area has lost the status of the non-perspective area and thus the co-financing shares that such an area is expected to receive have been significantly reduced. And in principle, the law on coherent regional development and also the law that is in force, and the one that we are now adopting, is intended solely to introduce money into individual regions and to run for this money on an equal footing for both developmental and developmental weak municipalities - under the same conditions. In this way, it is not possible to reduce and close regional differences within the region and thus not between regions. On the other hand, it would make sense - after all these years of implementation of the law on coherent regional development and the functioning of the Fund for coherent regional development - to ask why, despite such effective policies, people migrate and migrate to larger urban centres and also to centres. In short, it's obvious in this part that there's an apparent imbalance. Yesterday, we also had a relatively good opportunity to give certain ratings, benefits to those in rural areas, but we have also intervened exclusively in the area of promoting, stimulating or introducing tax reliefs for families with multiple children, as well as in agricultural subsidies, in the part or most of all in the rural area and in the consistent regional development. In short, we have introduced either a reduction in the benefits or additional taxes for those who are mostly rural, since agricultural subsidies are not the subject of urban environments, mainly not but mainly rural environments. This proposal, which we have before us, submitted by the SDS, is practically the only concrete proposal to enable real aid to companies in economically weak areas, on the basis of a very neutral criterion, is based on gross domestic product. In short, we must be aware that the economy is crucial, that it remains in particular areas of the population and that, if we do not encourage it, we will not allow the emergence of companies in such environments, then it is clear that we have supported migration as well as the continued poverty of these regions. In short, I think that if we want to talk about coherent regional development, this amendment should be supported. At the same time, to do some analysis of the work relating to the implementation of the law on coherent regional development, the functioning of the Fund and the effects that are diametrically contrary to what the law is supposed to bring and foresee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much. When I founded a company in a less developed area 15 years ago, there was still a law on demographically endangered areas. I had three years of stimulation, 100% tax relief on profit - no tax, fourth year 50% and fifth year 25%, I could use it for further development and the company is still working today, but it does exist. But I tortured myself in an area where there is no market, there is no money, there is no purchasing power, and there he had to survive. If I went to set it up today, I would set it up in Ljubljana, because I was paid once more for the same services here, and I have enough markets. And I wonder, then, what does this law mean for me to go to Haloza today, in the Slovenian Gorges, or where else to start a company again, to set up a company. Nothing! Let us reduce the tax costs so that there will be fewer in order to make the situation more serious, the tax rate is the same, the facilitations are halved or the quarter is given and we are there. The same question asked me by foreigners: what do you offer in Slovenia? Yesterday, I was a businesswoman from Austria, where we were at the conference - what are you offering to invest in Slovenia? And I'm surprised the government doesn't support it, even though I know the talks were going on. And this law is not income. The receipt concerns a person, each of us. Indeed, the SP, which combines this with its business and personal entities, certainly not legal persons. And I think that this law just makes things worse for businesses, legal persons, we don't offer any encouragement to foreigners, and, I don't know what they're going to say to me as a member of the company tomorrow, where I like to come, where I've worked for 30 years to support a law that makes the situation worse. So I will seriously consider supporting these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Sir, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I forgive myself for calling again on this amendment, but it is also actually amendments to this article, which was tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which I have not talked about. In fact, we did not file it, and we would have planned it, because we already had the information that they were preparing it. However, I would like to go back to the key arguments that I have also highlighted, as far as legally coherent regional development is concerned. The fact is, in all the speeches of representatives of the ruling coalition and our government, there is always a lot of talk about learning society, about the importance of science, about the use of this science to create greater competitiveness - you know, moving speeches. And then what? Yes, as always, the gap between words and actions. When the speech is over, when the texting is over, the reality of the bill proposals comes, and here we have the opportunity to research and develop the opportunity to use the instrument that every modern country has, and that is fiscal policy, to try and actually try to strengthen or at least to help strengthen certain activities. I wonder if you really think the representatives of the ruling coalition are going to invest more in research and development on the basis of speeches. But is there any study that talks have any impact on this? I think there is, because we all know - nothing affects this, speaks mean nothing, only concrete actions and willingness to support this thing as it is appropriate. Of course, the government's response will be: look, we're going to lose everything together, and we won't have enough resources and the deficit will be greater, the public-financial image of Slovenia will deteriorate and you will be blamed. No, distinguished representatives of the ruling coalition, you have decided, politically and consciously, that you will not seek funds and money where it is, because you have decided to protect them first - all tycoons of the Slovenian transition! Now there are no funds, of course there are none, but they will, because the time will come when there will also be votes and opinions in the political area in Slovenia and we will introduce such a tax system that will enable us to have a fiscal policy at all. Mr President, I cannot and must not agree with what the government is actually doing, giving up fiscal policy on behalf of protecting those who could do much more to help public finances through income than, for example, capital gains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci. Can we now see if anyone else will discuss it under Article 49? Mr. Diaci. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask another brief question: does the Ministry of Finance have any analysis or assessment of how the implementation of this law will affect foreign direct investment or specifically the so-called "greenfield investment"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Good. Anyone else? Then I conclude the debate on Article 49 and the amendments. We're moving on to paragraph 52. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, Mr. Tsukati, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Article 52, of course, also refers to these levels of relief. True, the amendment only speaks, this one that we wrote about religious communities, how they can enforce tax bases. Therefore, for Article 52, it was not necessary to be prepared to increase the volume of this relief of 0.2%, 0.3%, that is small. With the aim of developing a truly civil society to develop foundations for their decent operation is too small and if we link it up, this 52nd article, which is under discussion on the amendments, then we know that this is going down. The Income Act reduces by 50% the limit, here it is placed on some symbolism. So it goes in the direction that we do not want to have a so-called third sector in Slovenia, it means the quality of society. Apparently, the country is developing into a corporate state, at the top of the political elite, which is faithfully served by the compulsory membership chambers, which are subordinated to political elites. However, Genesis is precisely in this, just how to provide independent financial resources, enough financial resources for this civil society to live. That's the question. The government then responds, as we have increased the subsidies for this civil society from three billion to 12 billion. He who gives money is also the master. That is also the case with civil society.If you don't give it an independent source, that is, given by citizens as natural persons under the Income Act or under this law, then you don't have a legal person. I certainly do not agree with the finance minister, who says that these special reliefs are completely inoperable - when I listened to him yesterday - and it would be better if they were abolished. Of course, at the end of the day, I wonder why he didn't stop them if he's defending them so much that they're unproductive, that they're disruptive, they're disrupting his clean system, why he didn't liquidate them, why he's reducing them. Is it because of politics, because it seems too hard for him to cut off all possibilities of funding for charitable, humanitarian and other societies? Or was it then, as Comrade Pucko said yesterday, yes, but if we had a political motive, we would have done it quite differently. So, the implications of this, if it were the right period, would then do so to me, so politically, senselessly, irrationally, but only to attract people to the first bait. That's the principle of duality. This continues the politicisation of Slovenian spatial, economic, cultural, civil, humanitarian, not to mention any others, including education. When we went to analyze the issue of who is all the principal, just to see what a powerful political influence this political elite has on the appointment of directors, on the saints, just to determine the degree of autonomy, we went to do so. And scary data, just that duality. The Minister of Education and the other ministers are working to do so - they are not trying, they are talking about depoliticisation, dedeologicalisation, non-interference of the state. But when you're going to analyze, the train runs that way. That's the principle of duality. And the same announcement: the provision of an independent space, the autonomy of the university, the autonomy of civil society, these most powerful ones, and here you reduce them, you reduce them right through Article 52 - the possibility of independent resources. That's what you have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	We are also back in this article on facilitation, but for example, we would return to Trbovlje, where you will certainly admit that the solution to the problem of Zasavje is not that a vehicle with trucks of finance or money in Zasavje. The problem is, the way to a solution is to bring investment, bring jobs, bring production. Certainly not in the way some wanted with subsidies. But if we look at how to make an investment, and we ask ourselves who will want to invest or set up a plant, a factory or production here in central Slovenia, then we will certainly find this matter at the crossroads of business and financial routes, which is Ljubljana. Instead of Trbovlje he will build his factory and invest in Ljubljana-Polje. Well, the Rippers will be able to go to work here in Ljubljana because they are walking, but the Trbovlje is shutting down and will continue to run out with such a policy and will become a sleeping settlement sooner or later. The amendment proposed in the preceding article, however, opens the way for the country to eventually establish incentives or stimulate investment in less developed places. In this Article, Article 52, we are talking about facilitating humanitarian, charitable, scientific, educational and so on. and similar purposes. Years ago, I know, I remember a poor family who burned to the ground, three kids, both unemployed, and then we raised money for a new house. I came to a mess who said, "Yes, no more, I'll give you a hundred thousand." How is that? "Yeah, I'd give you a million dollars right away, but if I gave you a million, I'd have to give $250,000 out of that million to the state." Because the tax relief for humanitarian purposes is only 0.3%. 0.3%! I wanted a hundred thousand people with disabilities. One hundred thousand. This is the lowest relief in Europe for charity and humanitarian affairs. And there will be more and more poverty in Slovenia and there will be more need to raise funds for these purposes as well. But obviously this country doesn't want to divert at least a fraction of its capital to humanitarian, charitable, scientific, educational, etc. For purposes. He won't, he won't. This, of course, seems to me a very bad approach to regulating social conditions, creating some kind of climate of solidarity and some culture of coexistence and assistance. With decrees alone, it is impossible to establish social states by law alone. No, no, no, no! Unless we cultivate some voluntary charity activity, some mood, give something to others, not sell, not look at everything through the glasses of profit, but give a short bit. But when a man does something, the state can't and can't tax. And if we went, if we valued this relationship to the country, to the people, to actually build some human society, if we took that into account, then we wouldn't insist on 0.3%, but we would give at least 3%. This is said to mean that up to 3% of the tax base, if donated to charity, humanitarian, etc., education, sports, cultural, etc., activities, would be exempt from tax. And again, I need to find that this country cannot take advantage of the relief mechanism for those purposes that we know are necessary. Maybe it was too easy to build and invest in walls, maybe. And here, probably, it was good that the country approached the restrictions. However, all the amendments that are now speaking talk about the problem, that the state is not listening, that it does not feel these or that it can approach them with finesse, that, however, capital must be diverted to some other things that capital will not run into if we do not stimulate it. Humanitarian and charitable matters are, in fact, fines as regards the state budget. For the change. So few resources would be made up of this change if, instead of 0.3% of 3% - so few resources would flow into the state budget that it is not worth mentioning. Those who would have received it would certainly have felt it and some other relationship could still gradually be created in Slovenia. Of course, we also support the amendment that is in place or introduced as the new fourth paragraph. This set of amendments to the previous one, or to Article 49 and now Article 52, is in fact a small correction to this mistake committed by the Government in the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is also necessary to explain why this amendment is actually going along with, I would say, the general and global opinions that we have in New Slovenia and in the SDS on civil society facilitation and on the institutions that our law recognises as suitable instruments for the common good and that this is limited today in the proposal of the Income Act to one piece of this 2%, which remains, and here for one piece 0.3%, that this is essentially unacceptable. However, I would like to focus on the religious communities in Slovenia. Look. In Slovenia we now have a law in force, a law on the religious community in the Republic of Slovenia, which states in article 17 and here I quote: "Religion communities abstain from incomes from their own property, from awards and contributions from believers for performed religious rituals and works or services provided by believers and from inheritances, gifts and elections. The religious community has its own resources, the collection of contributions for religious purposes is allowed in ritual and other premises of religious communities, outside these premises contributions can only be collected by permission of the competent administrative unit, and no one is allowed to force or obstruct contributions for religious purposes. Priests may accept prizes in money or in some other form, which is usually for religious rituals performed at the request of individuals." That's this 17th article. And that is in our legislation, in our legal order, otherwise regulated in this way, and I believe that the Government's proposal, as far as the taxation of legal persons is concerned, is properly laid down because it does not tax as Article 17 does, nor does it predict and command, tax those revenue coming from these sources. At the same time, Article 17 states that the religious community is maintained from the incomes of its property. And here's the problem. And what's the problem? The problem is that the law, I think, correctly distinguishes these funds from the resources that legal persons receive from religious communities in activities that are not religious activities, that is, profitable. And, of course, he suggests, and this is a key issue in this law, that it is taxed. What does our amendment say? The amendment we tabled is trying to resolve this in a different way, because we believe that in some dimensions, what the government is proposing is not appropriate. Why? As part of the law "religious communities are maintained from incomes of their own property", we consider and propose that this should also be respected, to the extent and only if these profits arising from activities that are not of a religious nature, insofar as they are actually reinvested in these same activities, should not be taxed. It's the core of this marriage. And I think there is one proposal that will definitively align this law with the law on religious communities. Because if we insist on what the government is proposing, then we will be able to deal with these situations - there is some entrepreneurial activity, one or other certain religious communities, which actually creates some profit, which is then reinvested either in their activities or educational activities, including cultural activities. For example, in my church, which I belong to, the Roman Catholic Church, it also has an obligation concerning the maintenance of cultural monuments, and they also perform and do so, of course, with the help of state resources. So it is also a matter of harmonising the essential concept included in the current law in Article 17 of the Law on Religious Communities, with this decision and this amendment will only limit the payment of the tax to that part of the profits that are actually reinvested in activities already recognised in the Law on Religious Communities. So, we propose to accept this and, of course, in New Slovenia we will vote in favour and the Slovenian coalition will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 52 and the amendment? No one else. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Another point to be made is that this article, with such content or amendment, is actually aimed at increasing solidarity in our country. The aim, of course, is to ensure that these communities are better placed to carry out this mission, to have a greater margin of manoeuvre to give them recognition, to simplify or reduce their tax base, to make it easier for them to carry out this mission. What about this solidarity in Slovenia? In Slovenia, some studies have also shown that this level and affection for solidarity aspirations and objectives is declining. If it was previously instrumentalized or maintained in the previous system, it is now shrinking, absolutely. What the state does is not solidarity, it's just distribution. But true solidarity on a personal level is needed. Otherwise, society becomes cold, insensitive and even unsatisfying - it becomes people. It is therefore necessary to promote this type of individual solidarity. This article is intended to increase the sensitivity of its members for the plight of people who are growing. The pressures of people are increasing. I would like to replicate here to my colleague Tsukati that this country, let's be more precise, this government does not have this necessary understanding. We are all a country and some have or have more or less this understanding. But the government does not have any reason for this, and it has announced that it is not of interest, especially the Minister of Finance has stressed it - I understand him, he is a treasurer and he protects the budget. But, government, I hope it's not a finance minister, but to take it into account to a certain extent. So this is this - 52nd Article - or more solidarity or less solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Good. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the 20.30 vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Yeah, I closed the debate. You didn't sign up. Do you want to answer? Please, come on. Allow me just a minute, the government officials have forgotten to sign up and would like to answer a few questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that we are here in the draft agenda that we want to take a few minutes to explain ourselves, I just thought that the president would call me. Nevertheless, I will try to answer a few questions and some of the arguments put forward by the Government in the debate on the amendments, mainly Article 49 and the proposed facilitations. Let me say that a thorough empirical analysis was carried out on the basis of actual profit tax data for the period 1996 to 2001. These empirical surveys, as well as research of a similar nature in other countries, have shown that investment incentives have no impact on the larger or additional volume of total investment. The same is true of Slovenia. There was also a reason why the government proposed to reduce these benefits through a transitional period, while adding, in line with the Lisbon Strategy and knowing that in knowledge, the power of any economy that can increase added value and competitiveness in European and global markets is an additional 10% relief for R & D equipment. Let me mention this because the question has been raised here by Mr Diacija, how other countries regulate it. In particular, Finland and Ireland were mentioned. Let me say that Finland, as well as other Scandinavian countries, do not have specific tax incentives as incentives for R&D, but serve or give priority in particular to direct incentives for projects and R & D companies in the form of subsidies or favourable loans directly from the budget. At the same time, it must be said that these reliefs also need to be seen together as a general tax rate, and this rate is 29% in Finland. However, it does not have special benefits, but it does go into direct incentives. In Ireland, however, the situation is reversed and the overall tax rate is relatively low, we know from the past, it is 12.5% and also does not have any special benefits. Maybe there's some interesting information about what this is like in candidate countries. Let me say that only Hungary offers certain specific research and development benefits according to the latest available data, and no other country has any candidates or accessions to these facilities. At the same time, it must also be said that Slovenia and the government, through the budgets adopted in recent years, have significantly increased expenditure both for regional development through indirect and direct expenditure as well as for research and development. Let me mention that, for example, since 1999, when regional development was worth about 128 billion, in 2003 this figure has already been 236 billion, or the idea of an increase only in the period from 2002 to 2003 - 122.5 or 22.5% increase. However, for R & D expenditure is also increased by 25.5% in this year's budget, from 35 billion to 34 billion. I think that the nominal amounts themselves and also a percentage of the increase show that the government is well aware of both regional development and research and development for the Slovenian future. However, and I would thus conclude that the proposed reliefs in Article 49, in particular in point 2, mean that they are contrary to the European Union State aid rules, while at the same time they are contrary to the so-called 'Code of Condact' or the Code of Conduct in the field of Entrepreneurship Taxation. This would constitute a so-called harmful tax practice, which means the non-competitiveness or unfair competition of those same taxpayers who meet on the market solely because of such tax incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I have now concluded the debate, of course, because the government has not responded to Article 49, nor to the previous ones, but has now answered all the questions that have arisen so far. I mean, such a practice is, of course, unacceptable. I ask the government to follow the rules of procedure in the future and to communicate with each individual article. There was no debate now, and colleagues, Members or Members of Parliament did not respond because there were no answers, but now that the answers are in place, we have an open debate back. I'm the one who finished it! I mean, it's an impossible practice. I would ask you not to take this as a precedent. Now that we have time, and because the government has only now given an answer to everything that has been said, we should, in fact, allow Members to have a brief debate, because we have time. First, Dr. Bayuk wanted a word and then Mr. Diaca. Excepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for this exception, I will be very brief. I would only appeal to the government's courtesy and focus on what Mrs State Secretary has just mentioned that the government has done extensive studies and that there are analyses of the effectiveness of reliefs not only elsewhere in the world, but not that they are part of this analysis around the world, I only know that they have justified or sought support in analyses elsewhere in the world, but also in Slovenia from 1996 to 2001, if I understand correctly. This is exactly one of our questions, it has always been that the government has such a thing, and then it doesn't actually make it available to this national assembly, I don't say, to the opposition, to the entire national assembly. This is a problem of the relationship between the executive branch and Parliament. Because I believe they have had various discussions with these institutions, with other institutions, within a coalition, outside the coalition, in the corridors; however, the only debate that is final in parliamentary democracy is Parliament. And here's the moment of truth, here we have to come with all the things of the day. How much I would like and would kindly ask the Government to provide us with all these analyses, which the Secretary of State has also spoken of on behalf of the Government. As far as I'm concerned, I promised I'd be good enough not to use that exception. It is, however, I agree with you, Mr President, that is very unusual, because there must be some dialogue - what we have, if not, is really just some "Circus" where things are said, there are no answers, but there is virtually no dialogue. I am sure that those who wrote the Rules of Procedure did not have in mind the situation as it did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	You'd expect the government to know the rules of procedure. Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you, for your word. First of all, I thank you for the answer, which I think was a bit flawed, which is that Ireland has a tax rate of 12.5%, which is relatively low, of course has special rates for certain activities or companies of 25 and 20%. This is the source of the rapporteur for the National Assembly Then, as far as relief is concerned, for example, I was looking at the case of Austria. Austria has a 20% discount for education of employees directly linked to education. After the cost relief resulting from the development or improvement of the investment that is beneficial to the Austrian economy, the usefulness of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is assessed, the maximum relief is 25% of the cost of the investment and an additional 35% of the part of the costs that exceeds the last three-year average of such costs. So I think this is a relatively comparable matter, not directly, but at least indirectly, but undoubtedly. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported once again in particular. And I haven't gotten an answer to another question yet. If I may repeat it, I asked whether the Ministry of Finance has any analysis or assessment of the application of the law from the income of legal persons to foreign direct investment, specifically "greenfield investments". If you can still answer that, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you. Now could we ask the government if there is an answer to this question, or have we closed the debate? There's no answer? Of course, I need to know if you want Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. See, as part of this empirical study, which addressed the impact of these tax reliefs on the various elements of employment, environmental performance, investment expansion, of course, it is also found in one part how these incentives affect either the promotion of the arrival of new investors, as well as the decision-making of the company’s domestic investment management. This study found that in fact the most important decision for domestic investors as foreign investors is a stable, political, macroeconomic environment, infrastructure capacity, but not the tax relief itself, not the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 8:30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I interrupt this agenda item, and we continue at 13.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, a proposal for a law on environmental protection. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I salute in our presence the Mags. Janez Kopač, Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy, and I also give him the floor for an introductory explanation or a supplementary explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The bill was already under general treatment and was presented well at the time. Let me briefly say that its essential novelties are, in view of the current law, those that we need to implement - which we need to incorporate into our legislation under the provisions of several European directives, and we must do so before 1 May. The first such important novelty is a comprehensive environmental impact assessment that will be necessary later in the adoption of each plan or programme. The second thing is to assess the environmental impacts that are necessary prior to a specific intervention into the space for certain types of interventions. The third such novelty is an environmental permit to be given every few years to those under the Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Prevention and Control Directive, in jargon it is called 'IPPC Commitments'. And the new one is the environmental permit required for the debtors under the Directive on the management of major accidents involving dangerous substances. These, however, are the undertakings under the so-called SIVESO Directive. A major novelty in the law is the release of environmental data and public participation in environmental decision-making processes, where we implement the Aarhus Convention on Public Access to Information Important for Environmental Protection. A major innovation is the emissions trading regime for greenhouse gas emissions, which means the implementation of the relevant Directive. Otherwise, it is intended to implement the Kyoto Protocol, which the European Union has decided to implement on its own territory, even though it is not yet in force because there are not enough ratifications. The law then contains a number of other amendments that have proved necessary in the implementation of the law so far, or most of the acts under the law remain in force, even under this law, since some of the provisions in this law do not change according to the present. Let me stress that over the past ten years, since the current law on environmental protection has been in force, we have adopted more than 200 implementing rules on the basis of which we have legally regulated the issue of environmental pollution in Slovenia and by means of these sub-legislative acts have also brought the legal order of the European Union into our legal order to a greater extent. We have adopted a national environmental programme, a number of ten operational environmental programmes in various areas, and have produced three reports on the state of the environment. For several years now, the environmental impact assessment process has been under way in Slovenia for some of the interventions that have led to their more acceptable placement in space from the environmental point of view. The quality of our waters is improving on the basis of these sub-legislative acts which have established this legal order. This will be done by cleaning plants in larger cities, which will be built by 2005. The collection, separation and treatment of waste water will be completed in 2015 in the whole of Slovenia. Emissions of sulphur dioxide have decreased, consumption of substances causing ozone layer thinning has decreased by about 90%, leaded petrol has been banned and a number of other measures have been achieved. With individual amendments, I will take part in the debate, but for now, of course, all I am asking is that you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also considered by our parental committee on infrastructure and the environment as a working body and the chairman of the committee, Comrade Banka Janc, will present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the government, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 53rd meeting, on 4.3.2004, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the draft law on environmental protection submitted by the Government to the ordinary legislative procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the request of the Group of Members, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion at its 33rd meeting on 29.1. on the proposal for a law and adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Municipal Chamber of Slovenia, the Institute of Health Care of Ljubljana and the Legal Information Centre of NGOs also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The Committee also adopted comments and proposals from the amendments of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia, the Legal Information Centre of NGOs, the Institute for Health Care of Ljubljana, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled and adopted its amendments. The amendments were tabled by the Members of Jože Ašič, Richard Beumann, Alojz Sok, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, Ambassador Aloz Sok and Joža Tanko, Members of Richard Beumann, Silva Črnugelj, Ivan Bozič and Franz Lenko, and amendments were adopted in the framework of this document to the 11th Members of Parliament Richard Beumann, Ambassador of Jožef Ašič, members of the Youth Party, members of the Alojs Sok and Jožeta Tanka, and four members of Beumann, Montenegro, Ivan Bozič and Franz Lenka. In addition, 71 amendments were adopted by the Committee, together with some 80 amendments proposed by the parliamentary groups and individual Members, the Committee prepared, supplemented the proposal to the Environmental Protection Act for a second hearing for the National Assembly. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for legislation in the proposed form and with the proposed amendments, which the National Assembly will be decided on today, should also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman of the Board. At the 33rd meeting, the assembly held its first reading of the draft law, which is why today there is no presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and we will proceed to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.3.2004. Before starting the hearing, I would like to draw your attention to the amended content of the amendment by 161.a. and would like to request that you take this material in the debate of this Article. Articles 186 and 187 also have amended contents of the amendments. We are moving on to Article 3 and Amendment. The amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Who wants a word about this amendment? Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First, I would like to ask whether it is possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to amend or make additional amendments to the four groups of Members, while the deadline for the submission of amendments has of course expired. That's one thing, and please, if you can answer me. Second. As far as the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Coalition is concerned, in fact, already on the parent infrastructure committee itself and there has not received sufficient support and then, of course, we have repeated it once again - but the point is that in Section 5/4 of Article 3 clarifying the concepts used in this Act, in addition to waste management such as collection, transport, processing and disposal, we also record waste classification. In fact, waste concerns two major problems in the field of Slovenia: one of them is incineration disposal, which is also planned in accordance with our energy programme, which we will later adopt. However, as we know, there are great oppositions here, not only in Slovenia, but there are more or less similar problems in the European Union as a whole. This is because certain antidotes, such as dioxins, are produced in incineration and people, aware of this, want to avoid it in some way and oppose the construction of some large central incinerators. However, another problem is, of course, the problem of effective separation of collected wastes and their diversion back into recycling. So these will be two major tasks which will certainly be necessary in the future in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. The situation regarding waste collection has not been satisfactorily resolved, as I have somehow understood in the presentation by the Minister. It is true that things are moving in this area, but far from what they should be, either in view of the situation or the problem that is present in this area. I suggest that this amendment, which introduces in the conceptual explanation that waste management is also the classification of waste to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I will answer your question on the basis of the practice so far that, in addition to the withdrawal to the hearing at the sitting itself, changes to the contents of the amendments have also been allowed. However, it is not a new amendment or an additional amendment, but it is only a partial modification of the content already provided. That's how I'm going to follow the practice so far. Who wants the word to Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Just for a moment, thank you very much. What Mr Sok says comes from not knowing the concept of collecting or in English "collecting" is an expression that both in Slovenian and in English contains classification in Slovenian and in English "sorting". "Sorting" as Mr Sok says about it is part of the gathering and is already covered by the word "gathering". While "classification" is the word used in our legal order in the law on environmental protection as "classification", that is, the classification of waste into different groups: dangerous, communal and so on. Thus, if such an amendment was adopted, there would be renewed confusion and, of course, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word on Article 3 and the amendment? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you so much for your word and a nice hello. Look, I mean, if we've already written "gathering" then it probably means transporting and depositing to the right places, if we're so collectively interpreting this term. From the following, terminology should also complement this matter. Sorting, that means essentially, by domestic waste sorting. And if we want to follow this dictatorship, then it's imperative that it be written in. Otherwise, by collecting, we can fully understand everything from A to Z, from bucket to incinerator. There is no need to write any other intermediate stages. For the reasons listed here, as listed above, it makes sense to also use this word, which is very important for us to write in the process of collecting waste and transporting waste. Finally, we have a manufacturing industry or recycling industry that also deals with these things. And I suggest you support this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Article 3 of the amendment to Article 3. Unless I conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment. I am moving on to Article 7 and an amendment from the DeSUS Group, the LDS Group of Members, the SLS Group of Members and the United Nations Group of Members. Who wants a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 7. I am moving on to Article 11, and the amendment to Article 11, tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Who wants a word with Article 11? Comrade Aloys Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Article 11 refers to the principle of subsidiarity action in the context of excessive environmental burdens. The fifth paragraph of Article 11 states that the State or the municipality does not cover the costs of compensation claims by the injured persons as a result of excessive environmental burdens in this subsidiary responsibility. We think that this provision of the law is actually unconstitutional, because who should then, if not the one who is subsidiaryly responsible for the damage caused, cover the costs incurred by it. For this reason, we propose that the fifth paragraph of Article 11 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you. Anyone else? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Mr. Sok used the word "subsidiary responsibility". That word is not in marriage, and you can't resist it. In our law, as a superstandard almost unknown in Europe, we have included a provision on subsidiary action by the State or the municipality. So if we can't find the causer, someone has to clean it up, and someone has to pay for it, the congregation or the state enters. However, that the congregation or the state will now be liable for compensation because of someone who is not able to trace it is, of course, absolutely inappropriate, so of course we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you. Anyone else, a word to the debate? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate under Article 11 and the amendment tabled. I turn to Article 13 and the amendment tabled to Article 13, the DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. Who wants a word? Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	See, the public is one of the key elements of democracy, the public working as well as public data and collections are also one of the key conditions for the public to be included in qualified debates on individual issues at all. And I think it's actually inappropriate to delete the fact that the public has the right to obtain free data. This means that it is easily cut off from the sources of information by which it could act and on the basis of which it could also draw up certain initiatives or pressure on change or on better implementation of individual activities. And I find this particularly problematic in the field of environment, environmental protection, because when we close certain things, we simply usurp them and make it impossible for the public to even debate and decide. I don't think that's acceptable what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	It's not a government proposal, it's a four-member group. Thank you, buddy Tanko. Aloys Sok, then the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	I think that, as far as informing the Slovenian public is concerned, Slovenian public, if compared as a country among the members of the European Union, is relatively least informed of developments in the field of environmental protection. I would like to say that, among these countries, Sweden, which is also economically far ahead of us, is a country where institutions, their ministries are very well informed of the developments in the environment. I don't know why we should approach the services in either information society, when we also set up a ministry to ensure that our citizens, as far as information education is concerned, are approached by services so that now all of a sudden, this possibility can be deleted so that citizens can obtain information on the Internet free of charge, which is published and necessary for their knowledge of their knowledge, that they know what is happening in the environment in which they live. You, too, Mr Minister, have said that this is one of the biggest changes in this law, that the right of the public to participate in procedures relating to environmental protection, planning and all that belongs here. So we are surprised by such a proposal, and we will certainly not support this amendment's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The minister gets the floor for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	Mr. Sok and Mr. Tanko, you two are running through the open door. This amendment or Article 13 has been amended by an amendment from the Member States which was adopted by the Infrastructure Committee. The second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs define procedures rather than data. This sixth paragraph speaks of the data referred to in the preceding three paragraphs and the data is not mentioned there at all. That's why it has to be deleted. However, access to data is well regulated in this law and in the law on access to information and there is no problem. This is more or less an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you, Minister. Also Comrade Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	That is not true, of course, despite this witty parable of the Minister. Therefore, by deleting this paragraph, you simply take the opportunity to obtain, free of charge, the information referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4. This is not a step forward, Mr Minister, it is a step back if, of course, you really think that the Slovenian public should be given the widest possible information by civil society institutions. You know, the environment is neither mine nor yours, the environment is the property of all of us. When we were in Brussels at a two-day seminar on environmental protection issues, this was repeatedly repeated - that the environment as such does not have its voice, but that we are all obliged to protect this environment, which is one and is not available to us to destroy it, but to preserve it for our craftsmen. This is about reducing the willingness of the government - this amendment has been tabled by you, these four parliamentary groups have only signed - that it really thinks that the public should be the most widely known, and that is why you are taking this opportunity to obtain data free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you. Once again, the Minister will explain his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Mr. Sok, read Article 106! It identifies which information is transmitted to the world's Internet, i.e. via the Internet at home, and all are accessible. This here is simply one schampari, which was created on the basis of the Parliamentary amendment and needs to be corrected by an editorial amendment. Don't look at any conspiracy in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you. Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Well, I think Mr. Minister, as usual, is very simple to interpret all the things that the four groups are proposing on his behalf. The fact is, you've presented us with a law that's very poorly prepared. At 190 or 195 articles we received 227 amendments, and today we are dealing with the next package of those amendments, and 27 of them were tabled by the government coalition, your parliamentary group, on more than 10% of the amended text of the law. I don't think that's a realistic approach. The second thing is also to know that it is necessary to separate between the public, who has the right to participate in the adoption of policies, strategies, programmes, plans, plans and so on, and between the word 'everyone'. It is likely that everyone in those procedures does not participate in the third paragraph, but is likely, or is interested in, the data contained in those procedures. After all, if we're adopting programs, plans, plans, there's probably some data in there. And maybe some citizen from some area who didn't participate in the reception process is interested in these things. And by deleting it, we deny him the right to do so. And that's what we're proposing to keep him inside. And these MPs that have been adopted, but they're not just as lame as you're going to say. What you sent to the government or to the legislative procedure was a major setback.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 13 and the amendment tabled. I turn to the debate on Article 20 and the amendment of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 20. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 20. We are moving on to Article 29 and the proposed amendment of four parliamentary groups, DeSUS, Liberal Democracy, Slovenian People's Party and the United List. Who wants a word? Joz Tanko, then Master Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Well, this correction proposed by the government coalition or four parliamentary groups is actually a correction to Gabrov's school reform, when only university education was envisaged for most jobs in the public administration. In short, the high school program. And all the other professions and all the other schools were essentially set up on some sort of second-class new. And what you are now proposing is that all these things extend to higher education. And this also shows that the reforms that you sometimes adopt are not consistently implemented and prevent a certain circle of Slovenian intelligence, which is educated in some others, not only through high school and high school programs, access to top-notch jobs. And the problem is that in many areas it appears that there has been a lack of good people in many areas and that there will be no shortage of professionals who will not be able to work because of what you have done. And we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Master Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Yes, thank you very much. I myself have come to this amendment mainly for a reason, because Article 29 in the second paragraph gives a number of important tasks to the environmental protection officer. Finally, in the fourth point of the second paragraph, it shall also monitor and take care of the implementation of the rules and measures and so on. As you know, we have a higher education required in Slovenian legislation on supervision, especially inspection supervision, as is the result of this amendment, or as in the basic text for second reading, university education. I am asking the Government and, of course, four members of the group, what they consider to be a sufficient level of lower education for the environmental authority in view of the level of education required by the inspector in charge of this area, as university education is required there. I do not think these two approaches are consistent with the mandate of the Commissioner and the task of inspection. Therefore, in my decision to support this amendment, I will greatly benefit from the position of the Government and, last but not least, the parliamentary groups that propose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you. My friend Richard Beumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have to take this. Indeed, this amendment does not involve any correction of any school or educational reform. It is simply a fact that some of the profiles educated in the higher education curriculum are actually more qualified to perform these tasks than perhaps any other profile that is educated at the university level. A specific example, for example, is a diplomad security engineer who has a special programme in order to be able to meet all these requirements, which are referred to in Article 29. And let me also say that this amendment has actually come on the initiative of the profession, on the initiative of chemists who want us to put these issues properly into the environmental protection law. So much for explaining why it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you. One more mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. This means, if I understand correctly, that you believe that even for inspectors who control both safety at work and, of course, environmental protection, it would be sufficient to have a high level of professional education. Then why did we adopt in this mandate a few years ago a law on inspection supervision, which goes differently than you just interpreted? I ask once again - two different approaches for the same thing. You have reason to believe that there are professional reasons. That is to say, even this was to understand that highly skilled people are better qualified for these skills than university trained people, if I understand correctly. Of course, that can't be true. Once again, however, two different approaches are required in the area of inspection, state inspection, university education is required, and only a high level of expertise. And that argument doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you. I will give the floor first to Minister Kopač and then to Jože Ašič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	The government supports the amendment of the four coalition parties. Why? If I respond to the dilemma that the Magus has raised. A visor. Inspectors are state officials. Environmental impact auditors are the company's mandate holders. And those who are state-appointed must, of course, have a proper education, in our view, university. In the company, however, it can be lower, since the company can choose its own authority, as it wants or knows and knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you. Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Because the minister already partly said what I was going to say. I have tabled a similar amendment in the second reading and it has been dealt with on the committee, but it was wrongly applied to an environmental officer or expert. We have corrected this mistake by withdrawing that amendment and submitting it to this article. I would point out, however, that perhaps Mr Vizjak and Mr Tanko could align this opinion within the group, because, as far as I understand Mr Tank, the group supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. And one more word to Mr. Beumann. First, the replica. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	I don't know, I haven't expressed my opinion, I've raised the question of what these different government approaches and the four parliamentary groups justify -- I haven't said which opinion I am, who concluded this from my question, has foreseen something I haven't said. I am pleased with the Minister's explanation because he has answered this question and will make it easier for me to decide, but, I would say, a double approach to this, at all, I would not have spoken twice if Mr Beumann had not explained the purpose of these four parliamentary groups to consider that the highly skilled people are better qualified to have more knowledge on these issues. That's why I called twice and now it's the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you. One more word to Richard Beumann. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Dear colleague Vizjak is, of course, a master of deception. The fact is, I haven't talked about the fact that a highly educated staff is more qualified than a university-educated staff, that would be stupid to say, and I didn't say that at all. However, I said that there are profiles that are naturally oriented, if I may say so, to this particular work. One more thing to explain. When colleague Vizjak speaks of an unanimity approach, I would like to read to him Article 63 of the Chemical Act, which discusses the conditions for the appointment of an inspector. We have adopted this law almost recently, last year, not a year has passed, so that colleague Vizjak could know. For a health inspector exercising control over the implementation of this law, a person may be appointed who has a university degree or, I emphasise, a high-level education in the field of science and an expert examination in the field of chemical legislation and meets other general conditions for working in the public administration. Well, it's not true what he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you. One more time, mag. The viscous, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	It's not a replica. It's my opinion. For, of course, Mr Beumann is reading a special provision which speaks of one special supervision in a special field, and I am talking about a roofing law on inspection supervision, which is covered for all. And I believe that a certain profession went even lower and allowed itself in some control segment, such as a health inspection or a chemical, to release the criteria here. However, the roof law speaks of inspection supervision, it speaks of university education and, of course, I find it difficult to compare chemicals with environmental protection or chemical control. So it seems to me that the roof law here is the first, rather than this special provision relating to health inspection, but not to environmental inspection.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you. Nevertheless, I believe that you support the amendment, and if no one wants to discuss it again, I will conclude the debate on Article 29. We move on to Article 31. To this Article, two Members' groups, Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian Democratic Party, have tabled an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 31. We are moving on to Article 36, where the amendments were also tabled by the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment to Article 36. Who wants a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Article 36 speaks of public participation in the preparation of programmes and plans in the field of environmental protection. Article 4 says: "The Ministry shall examine the opinions and comments of the public and shall take them into account in the preparation of the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in an appropriate manner." Since, in Article 2, the concept of what is appropriate is not explained and because we were not able to explain to ourselves on the Infrastructure Committee what should be an appropriate way for the proposers to be one way, the Ministry could be a suitable way of doing something else - for this reason we suggest that the words "in an appropriate way" should be deleted and that the Ministry is therefore committed to taking the views and comments of the public into account in the preparation of the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you. The minister wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	These words are absolutely necessary, "in an appropriate manner". If they were not, it would mean that everything should be taken into account from the public debate. You know that people have completely conflicting ideas about how to take everything into account - we can't. So there must be some kind of filter called "the right way."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you. Can I close this debate on this article? Also Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Yeah, no, but if it's like the real minister, then that means you don't have to take nothing into account. So, in the debate on the Committee, we have suggested that you, as a candidate, find a different solution for this article. Once again, if you really intend to attract public participation by this law, if these words, which you repeat, are also well corrected by the law on environmental protection, because the public would cooperate in these procedures, so that the public would be aware of these matters, so as to have some impact on environmental and spatial developments, then you must adapt the law in this way and adopt such a law. However, if you introduce concepts such as "may" into the law, this was an amendment to article 31, in which we did not advertise, or then "in an appropriate way" or "partly" etc., then this means some empty content of the law and it can, because the articles are thus open, the dictions are non-binding, then you take into account what you take, what you do not, and, of course, you reject in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 36 and the amendment tabled to this Article. We're moving on to paragraph 109. Four members: DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List have tabled an amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? Igor Štemberger and then colleague Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. This amendment, I think the first part, is acceptable; for the second part, I don't think it's good. Otherwise, we'll put in a new third reading amendment. I would like to explain my thinking to Article 139, which states that the law applies only to common [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	My friend Mamić. You said 139th, 109th paragraph is in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	Article 109, yes. It just says it links to Article 139. And I don't think this part belongs to this because Article 139 of the Law only applies to joint investments to reduce the environmental burden on greenhouse gases. If the proposed supplement is accepted, joint investment in all other environmental reduction projects - waste water, waste management and the like - will be prevented, except for investment to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. This is how we will propose a new amendment in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thanks, buddy Mamić. Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	Actually, my friend Mamić said what I thought. We therefore introduce the provisions of Article 139 here. This applies only to the loading of the environment with greenhouse gases. I think it should be right to make it possible to also allow the joint investment of municipalities and countries in projects to improve the environmental situation in waste management or in waste water management and so on. That's why I think I'm once again calling on the government to consider correcting this amendment. Otherwise, we won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you. The minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	It's a misunderstanding. See, the joint investment of the state and the municipalities is possible at any time, not only by the fact that this law specifically states. This law defines in particular the instruments for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Article 139. This, however, needs to be specifically defined here as an opportunity for joint investment, and otherwise, under the Public Finance Act, under the law on promoting more coherent regional development, etc., such joint projects are possible after all. But now, in practice, they were not, because all what the state and the municipality together are financed is financed by the way they collect the state environmental tax, which then remains at the disposal of the municipality for its projects. This is not a joint investment, it is within the meaning of this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else want a word? Willy Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. It's not that simple. I think that this article and this amendment require in the third reading of the Supplement that the matter is clear and there will be no doubt. It is possible to listen or support those who have warned that this supplement can be read under Article 139, of course it is also partly possible to listen to the Government’s argument, but I point out the second paragraph of Article 139, which defines what joint investment is. And if we are now reading such an amendment that this second paragraph does not apply to other cases in the field of environmental problems, then we can get into a strange situation. Therefore, I firmly believe that for the third reading, article 3 of the amendment must be supported that until the third reading this must be made very precise or clarified so that there will be no ambiguity. In general, it is a set of articles dealing with environmental benefits from 109, 110 to 111 - no matter what the amendments are - that it will have to be clarified in the third reading if we do not get into a situation that is worse than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you, Willy Trophynik. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 109. We're moving on to Rule 110. Here, too, the four coalition groups tabled amendments and the other amendments of the Young Slovenia Party. Who wants a word with this article? And then Igor Štemberger, because I apologize if I haven't seen it in a row. Igor Štemberger and then colleague Willi Trophynik and Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	Well, here this amendment deletes a third paragraph among other things. I think that this would be acceptable only if the other amendment was then adopted, it is called the amendment tabled by the Young Slovenia Party. In fact, I think it is important that this means of purpose, that this is enshrined in the law, is said to be used for those purposes for which they have been collected, not that these charges are then used for anything else, among other things, for the purchase of a government aircraft and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you. The next one has the word Villa Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. This is one of the most problematic articles. First of all, we need to find that the home committee has done us a very bad service, that by adopting an amendment or text, it has practically made the situation worse in terms of the current situation. Therefore, as regards the first paragraph of this integral text, it is necessary to correct it and probably the following Article 111. Of course, I would not discuss it now, go into detail, because it is imperative that the amendment be accepted so that the article is open and then repaired. What's this all about? The current situation is simply that there are two types of environmental benefits, two types of fees, that is, for sewage disposal and municipal waste, they normally invest in the area where they are collected, for programmes approved by the Ministry or the state, we will say. Such a text, which is here, prevents or threatens funds to go to the state budget. The problems would remain open and would require or involve some other public funds, which are generally not available, if they wanted to solve the problem, or if the situation remained, but the fees would be collected and the environmental duty would eventually be born, instead of leading to environmental recovery from the point of view of pollution, it would lead to the State being, very badly, interested in not being able to recover, because then this tax is the reason for the collection of the tax and this tax goes into the state budget. The second part of the amendment, of course, I support, because, according to existing legislation, it allows at least the theoretical introduction of local taxes, which were introduced in some places even earlier than the state, fundamental or basic version of the law no longer allowed this to happen, and with this amendment this is being remedied or it is still possible to introduce a tax where objective reasons and, of course, uniform for the whole country will be imposed. Although the amendment is not ideal, it must be supported and then urgently requires rehabilitation in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you. The next debater is Jože Tanko, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The fact is, in some way, we've been on the committee in a situation where we've all wanted environmental taxes to be used at the location where they occur, so to speak, usually in the home congregation, to continue to be used where they are collected. The fact is that the solution that has been written, and also the one that has been adopted here, makes this to a certain extent impossible. If we accept the amendment, this can in fact not be implemented at all, but a tax is an integral part of the integrated state budget. The fact is that these fees are in fact one of the few earmarked, systemic or regional resources or resources for the development of local communities, investment funds. And once these funds are closed when they are put into the state budget, these local projects are actually cut off in the field of the environment. And these resources that are being invested in the development of local communities are not small, but depending on the size of the congregation, the burden it has, and so on, but few. Secondly, it is likely that municipalities should run for certain funds that the government would, for example, call for certain projects, but in particular smaller environments in a highly subordinate situation, because, according to the principle of points we know, those with the greatest environmental burdens - these are usually the richest municipalities in Slovenia - a priority in obtaining funds. And virtually all these small municipalities, the countryside, would be largely excluded from obtaining these funds. The next point, which is disputed in the proposed amendment, is the deletion of the third paragraph. The third paragraph allows the Government to make these environmental taxes an integral part of the budget and no longer provides dedicated spending to address environmental problems. The government may use these funds for any other purpose. I think that's unacceptable. By deleting this third paragraph, it is essentially the same as if I took this case and the petrol toll when half of the money was spent on the development of the road network and the other half ended where it ended. In this case, this would be the case with the full quota of these funds. And the third thing that I find problematic in this amendment is that the country, on the one hand, takes all that is in place at the moment, takes into its budget and then allows the municipality to introduce its own environmental taxes, by its own rules, which will determine what is considered to be the case. It is said that it is given the opportunity to impose a tax, and only those taxes it introduces are the original income of the local community. However, I think that it is inappropriate, unfair and much better to maintain the existing system, which, at least in my opinion, has proved to be extremely effective, to force the municipalities to burden citizens. And all the money that was paid was spent very deliberately, according to approved programmes and after the audit, because they also had an audit or control to actually do so. And this system should be maintained. The proposed solution does not allow this; it simply collects the funds and gives the country the opportunity to use them unintentionally, while offering the municipality the option of introducing additional environmental taxes if it wants to reach them, and then further use them as a means of supporting control. In short, this amendment is not supported. And if we want to achieve an effect, as proposed by Mr Trophynik, then it is much better to support the amendment of the SMS, the Youth Party, because it achieves exactly the same effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	I will now give my word to my colleague Bogdan Barovic, then to William Trofenic and then to the Minister. Please, Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Given that Mr Minister is with us, I will be very happy to have some answers to some questions about the amendment to Article 110. Environmental benefits may be prescribed by the municipality when it comes to environmental pollution of local importance, this is a proposal by the amendment. I would very much like to know what that means, "pollution of the environment of local importance". Well, I got the answer in line nine. The Government shall lay down by regulation what is considered to be pollution of local environmental importance. I think it's a little, I'm sorry, dear colleagues, but that's funny. It's funny that someone decides what pollution is of local importance. For example, the government can prescribe that pollution of the local environment is important for the pollution of the thermoelectric Trbovlje, but it has the largest chimney in Europe and this smoke goes to Radeče. And there'll be a regulation in the Radzky because the government will say that this pollution is Radječ, there's pollution of the Rippers in the Rippers. I'll be glad to hear that. But above all, in this amendment, besides, of course, what I'm about to end up with, something is bothering me. The honourable Minister is very good at working with us, which I am grateful to him, this recognition goes to him, in Zasavje, but still, look. I or the municipality should prescribe environmental taxes to polluters as proposed. But they're the only ones who're just polluters, and they're actually hiring people. That's the reality! And now the congregation should prescribe additional environmental taxes to these people who are essentially living, to these "la farje" factories, the thermal power plant, because it does not matter who are the only ones who are still living this life, which we need to deal with and talk with and lower their taxes on this account alone, that they are the only ones who are helping the rest of the social development. With such an amendment, it will go -- at least in this end, where I live and know, and I have applied this amendment to my end, all in, I will use the term that is a foreigner -- a little bit. I believe it is good that some local community has the possibility of obtaining an environmental tax directly. However, once again I ask, Mr Minister, what does "pollution of the environment of local importance" mean, and in what way, for example, the government may issue a regulation saying that there is some pollution of the local environment, but some, I don't know, of the wider environment. And even if it is broader, how this will be settled - I will end with it - as respected colleague Tanko said before me if the third paragraph is deleted. I mean, please, a little sanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you. I will now give you my word, as you have already reported, to William Trofenic, then to the Minister and the other discussers who have applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you. My contribution will be a kind of replica to Mr Tank, including the others, so that they don't get it wrong. I do not plead to collect environmental benefits, but first the nationals, then the locals, etc. No, no, no. I understand, however, that there are conditions and the need to establish local ones. I'll give you a case. If they do not have the option of a local environmental tax, no matter how the state prescribes it, I do not know it, or the government, then the Lendava tax, known in the Long Village, falls. Because it is based on this particular environmental issue, and so on. You have to be aware, in various gramozos, quarryes and the like, where local pollution and environmental burdens are not universal or are found on the finger of one hand in Slovenia, and it is necessary to pay for the consequences because they are negativity. This is how I understand this text, because the existing law also has an extension that there is a possible local tax, an environmental one, and it is good if it stays - life will show. Of course, the government will have to be responsible. However, one must set criteria uniform for the whole of Slovenia, because this cannot be very different from one end of Slovenia to the other. It'll be so much somewhere else. Thus this part of the text is acceptable, appropriate and necessary. Of course, pledging for this does not mean that citizens should be burdened with two kinds of benefits, as someone might understand, for the same problem. No, no, no. It's two different taxes, different problems. Some are all-Slovenian or national, while others are local. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you. The Minister now has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. I'll try to answer Mr. Tank first. I don't know, Mr. Tanko, whether you're joking or it's a misunderstanding. The current system under environmental protection law, i.e. waste water tax, is a state tax. These are now state taxis, prescribed at state level, prescribed by the government, collected at congregation level. If the municipality has programmes, the fee is reduced if there are no programmes, they must be paid in the state budget. And exactly such a system remains under the provisions of Articles 110 and 111 of this Act. That's exactly what the system is. So there's no concern here that the state is now taking something with it, as you explained here. That's not gonna happen. As for Mr Barovic's question, however, I must say that we in the government are not in favour of local environmental taxes. The original text, which was sent to Parliament, did not contain them at all. On the basis of the amendment, the Infrastructure Committee introduced the possibility of municipal fees. We have now proposed, with the help of four parliamentary groups, the possibility of municipal fees, but limited, so that they are at least uniformly arranged so that the municipality does not have very different systems. On the one hand, on 1 May, we enter the common European market and, on the other hand, we would not have a common market at home, because each congregation could theoretically do it on its own. That is why this restriction, which was praised by Member Trofenik, has been foreseen or proposed by or supported by the four groups of Members. And as far as the amendment of the Young People's Party is concerned. As an environmental minister, I should probably like the amendment, but it is fundamentally contrary to our legal order, as far as public finances are concerned, and the government does not support it. I don't personally support him either. We simply cannot prescribe this purposeful duty in this law. We can prescribe it in the annual law on budget implementation or in the law on public finances, in theory this is possible, we have several such cases, such as concessions collected in the mining fund, and some such cases. Such a provision is, of course, unacceptable. Finally, it must be borne in mind that there is absolutely no tax on carbon dioxide emissions over 7 billion tolars and also on environmental protection programmes for 7 billion. In short, this money would be absolutely exaggerated. If I give you one specific example of life. Besides, that's what I have to say. Trofenik spoke mainly of Article 111, although we are now at 110. In the second reading, the Infrastructure Committee adopted an amendment, an amendment sent by the opposition, which predicted that the fee could no longer be reduced or recovered from the budget. The amendment of the four parliamentary groups is now being remedied. He also mentioned this in his speech, although he spoke of Article 110, but he meant 111. That is why, of course, the text, as it is, in my purely good and appropriate and keeping, is once again an emphasis, the system as it is now. A national tax collected at local level and also consumed at local level if the local community has a programme. But if he doesn't have it, the money has to go into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you, Minister. I've got five contestants on file. In the line of Replica? [[...]] Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you. I won't steal much time. Dear Minister, I ask you once again, if you can, I repeat to me your answer, you say - here it says: "The government with the regulation determines what is considered to be pollution of the local environment." That's what I believe. Or if you say that he has to say it or that he knows what the proposer is. I would very much like, Mr Vice-President - this is a replica - to get an answer to this question, because then the decision about this amendment is also important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Minister, can you answer that right now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Yeah. I can try. We don't have a precise idea what that would be right now. Nevertheless, according to our explanation, it can be only pollution that does not affect the congregation’s borders. This means whether it is possible to thicken traffic, this is an extremely local thing, which is the Lendava case, or the very origin of municipal waste, and, of course, it is not meant to treat municipal waste in general, because this is, in practice, always regulated at, at least regional if not national level, and perhaps more. But there's only room left for the government to determine that. However, once again, it led, the emissions should not be across the borders of the local community. As soon as emissions are across borders, this is no longer a matter of pollution of local importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you. Leopold Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I will also touch on Article 110, but I will touch on Article 111, because they are in fact very closely connected, and this is the whole, but also part of Article 109, which we have already discussed. The idea that has been so far and which should remain in the future and from what we are discussing today is quite clear that it cannot be otherwise - I also think that it must be no different - is that money from such pollution of the environment or whatever we call it, must be spent exclusively to remedy this and for nothing else in this world of God, not within the country and not within the congregation. Only and exclusively for that purpose. This is the meaning of this and this must remain, this is now and this should remain in the future. Of course, that's part of it. The second part is that this money collected in an area should also remain in this area. Just like it's been so far. And the system, which is currently in force and which works, works well and remains in place; in the same way it should work in the future. Money is collected in an area where that area has a project that meets all the requirements, legal regulations and so on, that money is spent on it and for nothing else. If it does not, then, of course, through the state budget, they can also be remedied in other places, but also in the same place, for the same purposes. And that's basically the point of that. I think it's the right thing to do, and it has to stay that way. True, as we wrote and proposed, and we were on the committee, when we completed, obviously we were not sufficiently collected and able to interpret what was written in one way or another. So this written needs correction and it is necessary to do it in the third reading. For this reason, of course, it is necessary to accept these amendments so that we have open articles so that we can correct in the third reading what is not properly written so far. The additional municipal tax is, of course, as it is, additional. The Minister has already explained something and it must be this way, of course we can talk a lot about what local pollution is and what it is not, but it will be, not in law, it will have to be determined further. One more thing. It must also be clearly stated that joint programmes, where, for example, several municipalities run and have some regional, regionally solves the problem that they are the programmes of each municipality individually and collectively of these municipalities, so that they cannot then depend on just one, say, bearer municipality and others should not then cooperate. If five congregations, six congregations or ten are involved in a joint investment of any kind, I do not know, of a cleaning plant or anything, it is in part a project of each of these congregations and of all congregations together. And all that stuff I just said and all that other people were saying must be written down. And it's written down - let me put it this way - so that this money is collected on municipal budgets and at the end of the financial year a calculation is made. And if the congregation does not have what it should have, it will have to direct the state budget for these purposes; but if it does, it will remain there as it is. This must be the meaning of the Appendices and the more precisely written texts to Articles 110 and 111. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Branko Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There's only one part I'd like to replicate to my colleague, William Trofenic. He mentioned that the committee did something stupid when it adopted some amendments. The committee did not accept its amendments. However, three amendments were tabled in this Article, and the most debates on this law were held in Articles 109, 110 and 111. There were very different and shared opinions here. The vote also showed that understanding the issue of environmental benefits between the government and individual Members, who were not divided by parties, but by interests, was very different. The outcome of the vote on this amendment was 7-5. So, on the amendment of colleague Alojz Sok, who proposed this amendment, and on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth 7 to 4, which indicates that it is good that this amendment has been voted on at this time, since this article is open and you have the opportunity to amend this article at all. Otherwise, Article 110 would be closed and today's discussions on the high expectations of municipal money for investment in environmental programmes would probably be closed, so this discussion would not have been completed. So I would like to say that the committee did not accept the best amendment, but it did very well to accept it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Part of the debate I wanted to talk about has already been explained in part by my colleague Branko Janc. I think that the amendment to Article 110, as well as to 111, is a major step forward for the improvement of the proposed law in terms of discussion on the Infrastructure Committee for two reasons. First of all this congregational work. There was a lot of criticism on the committee that the new law should no longer give municipalities the opportunity to impose local duties. I think it is good that the Ministry has listened and agreed to the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to reintroduce this in the manner provided for in this law. Of course, those who warn or doubt that this is a good solution if the municipalities can harm someone in their territory by imposing such a tax should be reminded that this amendment and the newly formed article provide that the congregation may be freed or partially reduced and that so many other such local contaminants should be threatened with development goals and jobs. All this can be done by the congregation, and thus, after the amendment adopted by this law or by this article, the possibility that such a duty should be prescribed, of course, in agreement with and in the manner envisaged by the Government, which I fully agree must be the same throughout Slovenia. The second question, of course, is that which remains open and for which some of you are predicting an amendment in the third reading, which, as my colleague Janc has already said, would not have been possible if they had not made such an "salaria" on the infrastructure committee - I am speaking under the slogan and opened this article. We couldn't even talk about this anymore. Of course, the discussion of how to handle this may be open. On the one hand, I understand all those municipalities that want to keep these environmental benefits by the end of the year on the giro accounts of the congregation, since this means contributing to the liquidity of the congregation, in a municipality with large contaminants much more than in those with much less. Here I would even say that such a provision, as it is now in law, is more appropriate for large municipalities, with large industrial facilities, with a large number of people, with a lot of water consumption and the like, but it can be very negative for small municipalities that collect relatively few of these fees, but also run for large development projects without the help and pooling of these resources at state level will never be possible to implement. Maybe all of this, of course, is missing what we all know is missing. These are regions or provinces with a second level of local self-government, where such projects would, of course, be easier to drive, where they would probably also be a place of pooling these funds. In any way, I support this amendment and the amendment to Article 110, because the text of the law is approaching our debate on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. When we adopted the amendment to Article 110 on the Committee, the representatives of the Ministry were very dissatisfied with this. I'm not going to use the words that have been spoken, but the point is to disagree. However, if we are reading Article 110 in good faith, I do not really know what Article 110 is lacking. Perhaps only in relation to the fifth paragraph should it read: "The Government shall specify in more detail the type of pollution, the basis for calculating the environmental duty and the taxpayers for each environmental duty, its height and the manner in which it is calculated, the dosages and the payment."and here we'd make a dot. However, if today I am looking at this amendment, which has been tabled by the four groups of Members, then the amendment states that we will add something else, namely Article 10, so that the municipalities will also define in more detail the type of pollution, the taxpayers for a specific environmental duty, its height and the manner in which it is calculated, the dosages and the payment, taking into account the provisions of certain other paragraphs. And another paragraph earlier saying, "The government by regulation determines what is considered to be pollution of the local environment and the basis for calculating the environmental duty." So if we accept this amendment and we corporateize it in this article, we will get one incomprehensible solution that everyone will imagine in their own way. In fact, it will mean that the government will prescribe something and that the municipalities will prescribe something. For this reason, this amendment of the four groups of Members does not seem to make sense, nor does it make sense to me because it deletes the third paragraph of this Article, and the third paragraph says, "The funds collected by environmental taxes for environmental pollution are fully intended for the implementation of the environmental burden reduction works." However, it is clear that those funds that are being collected for some purpose should also be used for that purpose. I will not vote for these amendments to the four groups of Members, and it seems to me that, with the well-intention of Article 110, such a dictatorship, if we want to have a uniform system for all citizens in the country, that such an article as it is written is even a good one and that, with this amendment proposed, we cannot fix it, but we can fix it more or give it the opportunity to receive some double environmental benefits. One will be prescribed by the government according to its rules and then by the congregations, but only on the basis of what the government will determine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. From the first reading, from the debate on the committee and today's debate, I see that we are going about the same thing. That is, we all want to regulate or somehow maintain the existing system and do not believe the provisions of Article 110 to actually preserve it. That's the whole point of the debate. Why can't we believe it? Because it is actually so vaguely written that it can be interpreted in one way or another. Therefore, it would only be considered that there will be no misunderstandings; it would be significantly better to clarify it in terms of what is now in force. Why do I have doubts? Because I know that today environmental taxes, which are state-owned, for example, a water burden, are the revenue of the municipal budget, as they are collected in a transitional account and in the current year when the investment lasts, are deliberately spent on an investment approved by the Ministry by a decision and it has, so to speak, an investor, a local community or if an investment is transferred to any other, money flows for this particular investment. And this system is effective for investment in equipment, investments in nature protection or in this particular case water. However, if we are now reading the second or first paragraph of the amendment, it says that this is the revenue of the state budget. And if it is possible to understand it that way, the companies that are actually collecting these environmental taxes today will have to allocate these funds to the state, I don't know, some account, not to the municipal transitional, and, of course, will eventually get the money recognised for the investment, if that's the case. In short, the local and investor will be deprived of the liquid liquid assets it invests and, of course, this will also make investment in these projects significantly, substantially difficult. In short, if I understand the Minister correctly, as he has confirmed on several occasions, this is clear from the magnetograms, he advocates the maintenance of the existing system. Therefore, I think that this existing system would also be significantly easier to write in this article, that it will not allow for different interpretations, and that we will not feel deceived when the law is in force. As it is written that environmental benefits are the revenue of the country's budget, environmental benefits are currently in the first stage of the revenue of budgets, as they run into municipal budgets, into transitional accounts. Yeah, that's how it is. In all the accounting records maintained by the municipalities, because we have to, environmental taxes are the revenue of the municipal budget. It's in a transit account. That's right. I was wondering before I said that, and I know why I'm saying that. It is true, however, that if they are used unintentionally or if they are not used, the municipality must place them at the expense of the State because they are State duties. That's a fact. Once again, because of such vaguely recorded claims, it is also possible to understand this by having municipal companies that are now collecting these benefits put this no longer in the transitional accounts of the municipal budgets, but in the state account. And that, I mean, is the worst thing that can happen. That is why I will, in one way or another, support an amendment to Article 110, just so that we can correct it by the third reading so that we can actually follow what we all want here. From this, as it is written, forgive me, but it is possible to do so by means of a sub-law in one way or another and we may have a number of long noses here, because the local community will no longer have liquid assets and the state will have them. And if I understand the Minister correctly, he cares very little about the liquidity of municipal budgets and cares much more about the liquidity of the state budget. And if this is not clearly written, I believe first that it will follow a goal which is in the interest of the State as well as of the local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you. Janko Weber has a word to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Well, I would, in fact, support the solution so far, because the government's decision when it proposed a solution in the previous Environmental Protection Act to encourage the local community in fact to invest in building an infrastructure to prevent pollution in a way that, if it has projects that are ready, it will be able to keep the tax on itself if it does not, but goes to the state budget, has been a truly extremely positive measure, and this must be maintained further. Indeed, what might not be best defined in Article 110 is the definition of the debtor. So the liable or liable person for payment of the environmental duty - according to Article 110, paragraph 4, - is the person causing the pollution of the environment by emissions, the person causing the pollution of the environment by waste and so on. At the same time, this law also ceases to apply to a regulation currently in force under the applicable law. However, of course, the regulation defines the obligation or obligation of the debtor more precisely, in a way that, of course, the taxable person for the separation of technological water is a legal person or independent entrepreneur, an individual. Then the taxpayer is the public service provider of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water. I believe that there would be much less questions in this article, and in this law, if I had, I don't know, at least a draft of this new regulation, right before me, which would make it clear which are really those debtors who will pay the environmental benefits. And if I may read too harshly the fourth paragraph of Article 110, I do not see in this article that the taxpayers for the payment of the fee for the separation of municipal and waste water are public service providers. This seems extremely problematic to me, as it loses the practice so far or destroys the practice that has been in force under the existing law and regulation. I think it would be really good to get information or by the third reading on what this new regulation will look like. Otherwise, it is likely that it will be necessary, in Article 110, to define more precisely the taxpayers to pay these fees and to remove these dilemmas that exist in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you. I will give two more words to my colleagues and then to the Minister to explain these questions. First of all, Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, the chairman of the committee is not in the Chamber because I wanted to tell him in some way that he must not take it personally if I warned him that an accident had happened to the committee. That's a fact. It also draws attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service; if not the other, the Committee has adopted two contradictory amendments, which are simply not acceptable in law. Of course, there are many things that follow from the discussion. I am very disappointed when I hear this, even though I am not a member of the committee, how superficial it is to know this problem and this problem. And in such superficial knowledge, it is very difficult to come up with quality solutions. I would warn, of course, the Minister has already said, but here we should be so respectful of the legal and legislative service - those who do not know it - but those who know it should not read that the third point in this article, I also advocate that all that is collected from taxes should be spent on liquidation or investment in this area. However, it is clear that someone should then propose a budget fund. The only form of the budget fund, which is established by another law and by another decree or act of the municipality. However, the question is, of course, whether there are so many projects that this budget fund could function normally so that it does not lie where it lies and, on the other hand, there are open problems. But it would be normal for that to happen. However, the problems are substantially, substantially larger than they appear at first sight. The awkwardness of this text, which we have received after the Committee's work, is such that it has to be complemented urgently, thus partially addressing the proposed amendment of the parliamentary groups, not entirely and unsatisfyingly. Now, I have to say about practice that there is one confusion here, because people explain only some of the things they know, and it's completely different. Taxes are such that the present law has not defined the duty where they are collected. It was only with the instructions of the Ministry of Finance that there was a slow situation in which taxes began to be collected in giro accounts of municipalities. First or first step only on 31.12. it was important that the tax was on the giro account of the congregation. During the year - this must also be said - in some environments, however, operators of public economic services have been credited with interestless loans because they have been returning these funds for a year without paying one tolar interest. This is a fact and we have fought for years and years that the Ministry of Finance has issued such instructions that at least at the end of the year it was recorded on the giro accounts and physically present on the giro account of the municipality. But that's not all. It's from the little pledges. The large taxpayers paid directly into the state budget of the fee and still pay them directly, past the municipal gypsies of accounts and collection accounts. These are the following facts. But I agree with my colleague Webber that there is still one conceptual confusion here. This is where the law speaks. I'm the one who makes the ferrets. In current practice, there are, say, municipal companies. And this must be done - and this is not a better solution, because if we take into account the law on the implementation of public economic services, where it is carried out in three forms; one form is a public undertaking; the other is a regime establishment; the third is a concession; of these three forms, at least two are essential that the obligor is a municipality, because he is already physically at the behest of the municipality. Only when the public service provider is a public undertaking do taxes come physically first to the giro account of the contractor and then must be selected. So there's something else that needs to be worked out at the level of the law and something at the level of the law, but it's good to know when we're talking about it. It is only now transparency that the state will know how much taxes are collected and how much they should be. Because even in the municipalities they didn't know how many of these fees there were, because one of them was on the municipal budget or the account, the other went by the municipalities to Ljubljana, and in the end you didn't know how many taxis were being collected in Slovenia. Of course, there is a technical question here - a little as a replica to Comrade Auschwitz - the matter is not as rosy as it looks at first sight, because collecting tax costs. The State does not accept any commission for this. If the commission is indirectly due to the conversion of these funds, we can talk, but people are not paying and it is thousands and thousands of forced recoverys and similar matters, where the law and the law are not regulated anywhere. That is why it requires this upgrade, once again, at the level of the law in the third reading with an appropriate amendment and then implementing it with the relevant sub-legislative acts. On the one hand, some have had a free-of-charge turnover and on the other hand, costs are incurred that no one recognises. However, there are also intermediate solutions, which I claim to be illegal at the moment, while the municipalities have even recognised the commission for collecting the commission - at the expense of the State, because I claim that there is no legal basis for such solutions at this time. Of course, the performance, at least in the area of sewage, is even greater. Debris, theoretically, is not only the quantity of water purchased by an official from a public water network, but also for sewage should be charged to those who have their own students, at least under existing legislation, and no one is carrying it out. So the question of force is complex. For final solutions, the appropriate law must first be defined to be clear, and then the ministry or government will probably have to make a bloody effort by means of a sub-legislative act to reach the goal that what is to be gathered from all in a just manner is to be applied in a consistent manner, and that it will also be applied to the fullest extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Jozet Tank, then he gets the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Look, we know how the current state of affairs works, how the system works. We also know what we want to do and what we want to do. However, the text tabled in the basic version and the text proposed is not such as to allow these matters and to follow all the discussions we are currently having. Another problem is that neither in 110. nor 111. The prisoner is not a congregation. And what we are now talking about, if we do not write in the 110st or 111st paragraphs of this article, then we cannot discuss that the congregation is the one who can have these funds or who can participate in them; that is not possible. And the fact is, the 110th article needs to be fixed so that it says "municipality". At the moment when the only beneficiary of these funds is the State, the only consumer of these funds, is the sole manager of these funds, the only beneficiary of these funds. And it is not possible to discuss that this means simply being left to the congregations in some strange way. The next thing is this third paragraph, which was discussed a little bit earlier by my colleague Trofenik, who, I think, presented the situation very well, very well, but the problem is whether these are funds, funds from the budget or not funds from the budget fund. If these funds were in the state budget, this should probably be the budget fund. However, if we want to leave these funds, as they are so far, I do not think there is any need for a specific budget fund to be set up. And the third paragraph, as it is written, has no special connection, not even with ZIPRO, but ZIPRO can only summarize it. I think it makes sense that this text is also preserved in this environmental part. I also understood the text that has been tabled since the new seventh paragraph as a supplement, as an additional offer to the municipalities to take advantage of the possibility of introducing specific municipal taxes, particularly because it is proposed in the first part of this Article a solution that deprives municipalities of the possibility of using existing environmental resources, environmental taxes. This, and if I read it accurately, I am still convinced that the new paragraphs seven through eleven are only compensation for what the congregations will lose. And by doing so, the municipalities are essentially forced to impose some local taxes, and I don't know, especially the mayors are exposed to certain local problems and pressures. I think it would be right to take 110. The article actually opens to support the Article of the Youth Party or the Amendment of the Youth Party. This, in turn, leaves the possibility for the third reading to be supplemented accordingly. For if we agree that taxes can be used by the congregations, then this should be the case in this first paragraph. So that it can then be implemented under the law and then make new acts under the law. But if it's written like this, then it'll be a little harder. And in fact, the problem is that this is a parallelity, that is to say that we are saying one thing, that we are proposing one thing, and in practice something completely different is going to happen. And here I think that we should be particularly concerned about those Members who are also mayors. For you will suffer in this part - in the pronunciations - 'the greatest financial losses' and also your projects in the local work will be the most affected. I think it makes sense to open this up, but with the amendment of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I will now give my word to the Minister, and then I have two more discussers to report. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Sometimes in some policy, in particular now with Mr. Tank, I wonder if he really believes what he's saying. As a former mayor, of course, you need to know how the system works and all that you've just said is purely false. The existing tax for waste water and waste management is a national tax. It is collected in the state budget in the transitional account of the municipality first and, at the end of the year, in the final account it is written as the revenue of the state budget, as a return to the municipality and, of course, also what is made of it, is the property of the municipality if it has projects, if it does not have them, but goes directly to the state budget - the money is liquidity. And this system, as is now foreseen here, remains the same. But once again, I've been looking for an article on the basis of which this system, which everyone praises, including Tank, has been introduced. And I'm going to propose in the end that we delete paragraphs 110 and 111 and introduce the text on which this current system, which you are all praising, has been established. I read article 80 of the existing Environmental Protection Act: "The amount of fees and reimbursements, the manner in which they are charged, the doses and payments and the criteria for reducing and exempting payments are prescribed by the Government." On the basis of this one sentence, this system was established, as we now have and everyone praises it. Let's keep this sentence, delete paragraphs 110 and 111, and you'll all be satisfied. If you don't believe me when I explain that paragraphs 110 and 111 mean maintaining the current system, then delete it, and have this one sentence, if that's okay. If you believe that the government is establishing and maintaining the system that is now in force on the basis of this one very general sentence, then you also believe that paragraphs 110 and 111, as we propose here, mean exactly the same. I can't understand where this mistrust is coming from, but now we're trying to put something on our heads and take this money away from the congregations, it's pure drowning, and I think it's malicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Yes, it is obvious, Mr Minister, that when I listen to this mayoral debate, you have earned the reputation of this mistrust, thus giving to all others the lesson of deceiving themselves to be deceiving themselves and so on. Because if we trusted you and I actually understood the 110th article well-intentioned and in no way - of course, because I am one of those debaters who is not discussing from the position of mayor, but from the position of citizen, Member - I do not want a double system where one of the duties will be prescribed by the state and then the duty will be prescribed by the municipality. I'm on my own against it. Because burdens, we all know this, prescribe and burden people - this is very easy! Each person looks at how much he lacks in the budget and then calculates, how much and what kind of law at the state level, and at the municipal level, the decree has to be adopted to make the matter work. I cannot agree with this on my own, because I see our people living worse from day to day. I also cannot agree that the funds collected from environmental taxes would be used for something other than reducing the environmental burden. I cannot agree that if I paid something in the water to solve problems in the field of water pollution, or something in the collection of municipal waste to save municipal waste, then these funds collected as ecological taxes, I don't know, used - so I will say - for some sporting activity or something else. I therefore object to the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 110. And that is why I cannot support this amendment of the committee. I think that it is imperative to stay, no matter how technical this is done, whether there is a need for a budget fund or what needs to be done. But I am sure that the funds raised for a particular purpose must also be spent. But how do you technically do that, I practically don't care. But I want to know that it's going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from an environment where we have great experience in collecting both state-owned environmental taxes and in trying to collect so-called municipal taxes for about the same purposes as was introduced at the state level, but I say at the outset that with extremely poor experience. Therefore, a recent call, at least to the citizens of the environment from which I come, to so-called civil disobedience, because the burden and all these nonsensees that they invent at both the state level and at the municipal level are more than enough for people's pockets. A hundred times previously mentioned boasting of the introduction of collection of these, including taxes - because the tax is nothing more than a tax - by the way prescribed by the State and by the municipalities in the so-called transaction accounts, in fact, is a burden. It is a heavy burden on people, but it is not a burden for congregations or companies dealing with municipal or water. This is no burden of the state. And of course from this title it is also no state aid to any investments or projects at the municipal level, but one of the regulations that they remembered there in Ljubljana, near the Minister Kopač and which they collect, are in charge and are also in charge of the municipalities. The projects to be carried out in order to keep this fee in the municipality have such provisions that it lasts for two years, even two years, to justify the project and to confirm it in the government, in the competent institutions, that the money remains in the municipalities. If not, the municipalities are being punished: for the first time, by taking this money and going into the state budget and not as the minister said it was going from the state transaction to the state, and then the state is returning it. That's not true! You kicked him in the back of a rock. It is a second truth that this money will disappear if the municipalities do not prepare these projects, to Ljubljana and does not return to the environment where it comes from. And of course there are very great efforts and terrible pains of municipalities and municipal administrations to justify, of course, together with municipal companies or institutions that regulate this money to stay where it is. Of course, now, how to believe well-intentioned and I will say, the will expressed here is written otherwise, but the law, when adopted, will be law and will be valid. And then no sermon and no deceiving here in the National Assembly by the competent ministry will be relevant. The only thing relevant will be the law. In fact, if it were clearly written to keep it the way it is, then I would have supported it. But that's not what you're looking for. You don't see it in this article. Therefore, from all parties, from all sides, wherever we are dealing with these fees and with these inventions, we note the ambiguity of this law. A regulation that also, of course, requires that the congregations also collect an additional fee, but there is nothing else but additional tasks and additional burdens on the congregations to carry, forgive, the final salary, so as not to say ass to those who should take care of it. Why? Because in a program that, say, the Ministry of the Environment prescribes. I am thinking, for example, of cleaning plants, for which the state and the ministry also had to sign an agreement with the European Union, until the municipalities build them - of course, the only thing that this government or this ministry has done in this regard. The rest is now a matter of the congregations. So again, one of the many burdens that you have committed yourself to, which are on the shoulders and on the shoulders of the congregations, is how to raise these terrible billions in order for this condition to be fulfilled in this agreement with the European Union. And it happens, of course, that the municipality, with goodwill, with naivety, goes to the project of a cleaning plant, which is now the most attractive topic of mayors and municipal councils for voters in the Slovenian space. The cleaning machines were created by an icon, some symbol, some first league in this matter. Of course, they are stinging at how to get money and naively prescribe municipal taxes. In the environment where I am, we did it. What happened? These municipal taxes have been very balanced in financial terms by, or I will say, at the price of, a cubic of contaminated water with a national tax. It happened that local Februarys and their politicians were walking around local communities and, of course, the matter that the municipality is gathering under the rule of government, namely, the Liberal Democrats and the United List, these same "locals" then revolutionized people, czech, see what the municipality is doing, see how they have a crazy deficit in municipal budgets. This is the money that's collected for "flashing" credits, that's all but help. So, we got on one side a state rule, build a cleaning plant, on the other side a municipal council regulation or an act that ordered it, and on the third side against the same option of people who have done total chaos by municipal or local communities. So it happened that, in the environment from which I come, and elsewhere, we would rather abolish municipal fees for collecting money for such matters as the State prescribes for the work of the congregations. And of course, we have done absolutely nothing about it because there is no listening and there are no options. And since this is not recorded in any law, but at least in this article, we can fully doubt that the words you have spoken are true and will apply as before. So, cooperation between one option and another - and I'm talking about the government and the local community - is not, there are only rules, there are only desires and obligations that we impose on each other. However, to act together in the field of waste water management and environmental burdens, this has not been felt for several years. So, hand to heart, when we got to know each other even more than we did years ago, there were quite a few meetings at the level of local communities and secretaries, if not ministers, which has been missing for a few years now - only mail from one institution to another, and just burdens and, on the other hand, various revolutions. Personally, I am very sorry, that is, I also feel that this is very wrong. After all, we live in an environment that we have to worry about, because, you know, at least if you look very narrow and very stupid - what flushes against you who are in Ljubljana, from other municipalities [[The river's running down anyway.]] ‘ Actually, it can't matter if you look stupid like that. But we don't care, and it would be very necessary to prescribe and make such a law and articles that would allow those who pollute water to care for those who are users further upstream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Jože Ashitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you. I called again, even though I didn't think it would be necessary. I don't understand a few things anymore. I come from the debate on the Infrastructure Committee, of course. I myself personally led this discussion with the minister about why it is necessary for the congregations to have the opportunity to prescribe something. If you do not see this need - but, Mr Rupar, ask your neighbor, Mr Visionak, whether you feel this need. [[Back-up advertising.]] Well, ask someone else. Well, look at the law, see if it says you have to prescribe it. It doesn't say anywhere. However, I think that the minister and the government will be most happy if we say "it's out" because it will have peace in front of the municipalities, because we will not invent in our own congregations what we want, and they will have some transparent situation, what taxes we have in Slovenia and what the government stands for, and also prescribes their way of collecting them, as well as their use. So we're going back to the text that's in the proposal that's been so criticized, because there's no way that the municipalities can prescribe it. In the marriage, as the minister had already said, it is, and by this solution some congregations have prescribed and solved their congregational problems. And if there is no need in the Market or in the Rippers - why should we not have it in Brežica, Ormož, Lendava or elsewhere where this need is? I don't see it. But I see in this the possibility that the congregations can do this on their own. Of course, if you think that such rights should also be restricted to the congregations, thank God, they are necessary. However, if we return to this transitional account, I am very pleased with the Minister's explanation, the Magnography of this National Assembly will record that nothing will change, as so far there has been a way of collecting through municipal transaction accounts under the Government's regulation and under the law, but even if we consider third reading, the text from the existing law can go back. And the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole. However, I think we are completely irrational, we have become around this debate and that the strength and intelligence of individuals are more measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you. Leopold Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. It's been on my mind for a long time now that our discussions should be interrupted somewhere in the half-predicted time. It's about halfway to normal, and then we start in half. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] It's not half yet, I'm still in that part because I spoke a little less than I predicted. [[...]] But for real. Look, we're illogical now. Until about 15, 20 minutes ago, we thought pretty logically about how to fix these things, that they would be normal, that they would be the closest model that is now and that works, and now we're starting to "fight" in quotes, who is for mayors, who is against, what's good for mayors, what's wrong - I don't care what's good for mayors or what's not good for mayors, even though I'm the mayor. I'm curious if the system will work. As it is written, we all find - not good enough. That's why we said that the third reading needed to be corrected. And we'll be preparing amendments to remedy this matter. It is true that some of the things that we criticise are now in fact written down, including the fact that it is in Article 80, "when pollution concerns only the inhabitants of the local community, it can also prescribe taxes," and so on and so forth. That's it now. And this "may" means that it is prescribed in a normal democratic way, no one can impose on anyone if the local community does not feel the need to do so, but will not do so. If democratically elected representatives in the congregation, because of me at the referendum where they will agree, they will do so. And it's right for them to do it! This is fundamental, and there have been many questions in this regard: the polluter is obliged to pay the environmental taxes that tax environmental pollution. This is a fundamental principle and all the rest is the emancipation of this principle. And the municipalities here play in this film, as stated in Article 11, paragraph 4, - what we added, among other things, also on the committee - "when the construction of local infrastructure is considered to be justified by the provisions" and so on. Whether it is up to the recovery of the exemption or the reduction of the payment of the environmental duty - here should be added, "which is collected in this area" and so on - a justified local community and again, as it says. Only the congregation will come here, but the congregation will be like the one who does this, and in fact the tax is the money of the polluter who is being forgiven for this share. This is the basic system of this. And look, I would suggest that slowly, of course, if we don't have anything else to say about this, we might come up with some common idea, because it seems to me that a common idea has come up and it is that the principle remains about the same as it is now, because it's about forgiveness, it has to be, it's defined, but we all know what it is and it's clearly written and it has to be written even more clearly. That this is actually collected where it is paid to be used for those projects, but if these projects are not available, of course it goes to the state budget. I don't care if a congregation doesn't have a project to do that and then it's spread out on some other projects, because it's also if it doesn't. And it wouldn't be right if a congregation didn't have a project to spend that money on, I don't know, a football field or something like that, I think my colleague Sok or Tanko said. It would not be right and it is not the purpose of people to pay a tax on environmental burdens, so as to build I do not know any other things that may be necessary, but not from this source. Let us therefore concentrate on how to prepare the matter for the third reading, and these amendments, of course, have a purpose, because also what will be adopted today, I hope, and I suggest that we accept this, these amendments, has an opportunity to prepare for the third reading of a change - if we feel that this change is necessary and necessary. Of course, in order for the members to be open, let me once again say that in the third reading, we can write the matter in such a way that it is clear, perfectly clear and at the will of most of those who are discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	I'm sorry you didn't understand me, Comrade Auschwitz. The point of my speech was that if the state [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Dear fellow, take your place and speak there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	I'm sorry, probably for the subtitle. The point is that the State prescribes or prescribes a tax and the congregation collects it. Of course it's true, don't tell me it's not true if I come out of it and if I do it every day. So, they're picking up these utility companies on the counters that he's exhibiting and there he's writing or a utility company, I don't know, Krško, if you want the municipality of Krško, but it's a state tax and that's at the core of what I wanted to say. Let the state collect this on its own and carry the head for sale in front of people, because people are angry at these fees, they are very angry because it is an addition and it is an additional burden on their pockets. And now we're going to put municipal taxes on it and add it to it, and it's going to be twice the revolt that happened in my environment. And that's what I'm going to argue with my friend the Kremjar. Right, we have a movie that's playing, a cinematographer, a script that the government prescribed, but the script is that the main players, the congregation and the municipal company are jumping into a dive, and they're being beaten there to the finish. That's wrong. The script, if they already write it, let them do it themselves and jump into this chasm on their own! You know, that's the point. Another clue that follows from this. If, after all the efforts and whatever the congregation or municipal company or anyone who carries out a public service is unable, I don't know, because of the land or anything, it can't prepare projects, this fee falls and goes elsewhere. Then who are the people angry with? The municipality collects this tax, which is a national tax, and does not have its own projects. Why is he collecting this congregation? Why are they going to measure, say, your mayor in some town if, for objective reasons, he couldn't prepare the projects? So it's about the injustice that's in this marriage, and it needs to be rectified. I agree, however, that we still have the opportunity to design this in a way that is right. And I agree with you, we're on the right track for this to work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you. Mag. Visjak, then again, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	I think that the provision proposed in the amendment, which provides for the possibility of some controlled introduction of municipal taxes - I emphasise, controlled - is in place. In particular, for the reasons already mentioned here today, because in a given environment it comes exactly as a point, locally to certain impacts, and it is right that these benefits are also disstimulated. Not only this, but also this collection should, in fact, be devoted to certain environmental measures of the local community. I therefore welcome the possibility of this, but indeed in cases where there is no abuse or collection of these duties and then of unintentional use. So as far as that's concerned, we're in place. And I see, not least now, the Minister's willingness to actually maybe if we all have pure purposes, which I have no doubt, because this Magnography of the National Assembly also means something that is not the devil, that we will not find any clever dictates of this 110 article, that the wolf will be sat and goat whole. It is said that we will be at peace, that the matter will undoubtedly be written; but I do not say that the former law is clear and good, far from it. However, I think that if some system proved to be good in practice, there was no Member here, at least I didn't hear him play. Why not be precise in this Article 110, and so now we have spent almost two hours here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. And a word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you. Well, more or less it was all said. I just want to say this, tax, for example, on waste water is a tax that actually helps local communities. It was here to understand everything except Mr Rupar to support the current system; Mr Rupar said that the state should collect it. The state does not need this tax, it is needed by the municipalities - because the municipalities are legally responsible for carrying out a compulsory public service called water supply and sewage disposal. It's a municipal obligation. It is, of course, right that, in cooperation with the State, while the State prescribes this in the territory of the whole country, these fees will be collected and projects based on such a tax collected. That is why, of course, I am sure that despite such individual anarchic failures, we will find a constructive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much. May I close the debate on Article 110? I see you can. I conclude the debate on Article 110 and the amendments to this Article. We're moving on to Article 111. Two amendments have been tabled, both of which are four groups of Members. Who wants a word? Ivan Mamić, then Igor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. It kind of relates to article 110, actually, I don't think it's going to take that long. It seems a little strange to me that once something is taken, it starts to come back in a very short time. This amendment to the Infrastructure Committee has already been withdrawn. Now he has to go back, and I don't know if it's gonna go back to where it was, and so on. That there will be no end. I hope we're here so we can get there. That's how I find this amendment unacceptable. Indeed, in the event of the adoption of the proposed amendment, the right to exemption remains in the text, but the right to refund the duty already paid is reinstated. More specifically, the procedure for charging, collecting, using exemptions or returning environmental duties is governed by regulations which are not decided by the national assembly. Since the Government is working very hard to ensure that the law contains the right to pay back the environmental tax already paid, it is clear that it is intended to take advantage of this possibility through changes in environmental taxes. Thus, the amendment adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment would virtually lose its importance, whether it would be repeated Once again, after the current regulations, municipal companies would charge the collected fees in the municipal budget, and if the municipality or the municipal company, under the conditions laid down in this Regulation, were to invest in reducing environmental pollution, they would be exempt from public budget fees. The provision that the debtor will have the right to refund the environmental duty already paid means that the debtor, that is, the municipal company, will have to pay the tax immediately to the state budget. However, the return can only be obtained after the investment has been completed. The investor could therefore exercise the right of reimbursement in the State budget of the fees paid only after the completion of the investment for the ongoing financing of investments, and for which tax inflows are now used, other financial resources should be provided. This can only be a payment for a service or credit, which is impossible at the current prices of municipal services and the financial situation of municipal companies and for the duties of most municipalities. A good part of environmental duties would end with the State budget, thereby losing their purpose and being used unintentionally. I hope another mayor, even if he does, will say what's more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you. Igor Štemberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	This amendment to Article 111 somehow excuses those doubts which some have already expressed in Article 110. In fact, here, in addition to the exemption, we are now giving an additional possibility of a reduction or a refund of the duty already paid. So, it means that municipalities or investors that will collect fees will have to pay to the state immediately, of course, because such an option exists here, I fear that the government will keep the sub-laws, focus primarily on these refunds already paid and that these exemptions will remain a dead letter on paper. In this case, the municipalities should make an investment and then, on the basis of an investment, wait somehow for the refund of these funds, which would take a possible year, two or even three years. What's going to happen in the meantime? Those weak municipalities from less developed areas will not be easily able to make such investments. This would mean that at that time they would have to rent loans and additional debts, or they would not make simple investments, which would be even better for the country, then they would not have to pay those fees back to the municipality, but would remain in the state budget. This would not be good, for it would use these funds for something else or somewhere else that has been collected. This would simply mean that the weakest municipalities that will not be able to make investments themselves will not make these investments and will indirectly co-finance certain investments elsewhere. Thus, the least developed municipality, the weakest of Slovenia's periphery, will co-finance the construction of a cleaning plant in Ljubljana. That wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'd give my word to my colleague Paul Rupar and then a joint response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	There's still a few references to the previous ones. I did not think it was a fanatical exercise by the Minister, although he called it that himself. So the state needs taxes, not the congregation, you know. The State prescribes the tasks that it then gives to the congregations. And since this is passed on to municipal executions, it is also legally necessary to provide for financial resources after the financing of the municipalities. It's the right thing to do, and it's the right thing to do. So the congregations need this, of course, for investment, but the state has prescribed this investment and it has to take care of the money by law. Otherwise, as I have already said, and of course, I will not say that it is misleading, but perhaps it is the non-concentration of the Minister. While Article 111 reduces or repays already paid taxes, this refers to municipal taxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in But I want to know what it's like with government fees. I have already mentioned that, for objective reasons, the municipality may fail to meet the conditions for obtaining this national tax; for example, it shall not carry out the project documentation to the extent that the State may grant it or grant it the State fees it has collected. What happens if there is no objective reason to do so comes next year, when the investment in financial terms is so high and so large that it would be fair, after obtaining all the documentation, to also return the state tax from the previous year back to the municipality. So again, we have an article which imposes obligations on the municipalities for any reason on users, i.e. to payers or citizens, in the next step, from the country to the municipality, and it is not to be traced. In my opinion, this 111th article should also be amended until it is adopted in such a way as to allow this potentially lost state tax to return to the congregation next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	Now I'm going to give my word to the minister he wanted. Before that, I would like the word Leopold Grošelj, then Jožet Ašić and then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u183	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I must say that these doubts about the way these funds were collected and used appeared on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, of which I am also a member, when considering the report on the functioning of the public utility company Trebnje. Although I have tried to explain at this meeting because, last but not least, I hope, I myself can say that I know the matter, because I was an uninterrupted 12-year-old mayor, but also before the President of the Executive Council, how this matter takes place in the decision-making process. Since this commission has a majority of the opposition, it has been voted as if there is a complete mess here. I'll tell you in a minute. I told you how it's coming together. I also said that if you have a programme, you also have to get a decision that you also have a certain time to complete a project; that there is also a certain auditor who comes to review the matter and so on. And if the funds are covered by the project, in this case, you can use the funds. If the investment value is less than the collected fee, this can also be done in the state budget. Unfortunately, I must say that the representative, Mr Minister, of your ministry was very clumsy at this meeting, so that I also had to intervene in this sense, as if there were some explanations completely contrary to the practice that is taking place here. So the matter here is completely, completely clean. What has been good for some of us in this 110th article is what is now contained here - that if environmental benefits are shown to be necessary, the need not to make a broad statement that the congregation can also prescribe when pollution is of local importance. I will return to what Mr Weber has said once again. This is mainly about the hostage. Let's just say you understand me correctly, for a debtor who is a public company -- let's say it's a commune that collects it. On this committee, I have even said that we have this burden, which is for each household or, I would say, a debtor with other letters written down, how much is it to say, is this review, saying whether it is only a public utility undertaking, because it is set here in the regulation earlier, it seems to me that this is somewhat open and indefinite. Or they would say that anyone who is a liability is the one who consumes water or in some other way because those who have particularly the use of technological water know that the State also prescribes to him how much the State must [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] This is a matter of fear, if it comes from this law, also quite understandable, in which cases it is a liability, because in many local communities they have a separate, as a public undertaking dealing with purely this communal activity, garbage and perhaps some other matters, and of course another, which is completely entirely, I would say, entirely separately deal with water and some other matters. So that they're clean, they've been clear, they've been very well arranged, and I'm sure that's, I can say, maybe even a positive word, because this time when you're getting that money, let's be honest, it's like a rich reverse in a particular local community. I have a system, too. At least for a lot of people, I'd say, clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you. Jože Azhishch, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I think that is exactly what it would be necessary, which Mr Grošelj is talking about now, to explain, because from some previous discussions I have understood that some people think - but I may be wrong, but I misunderstand - that the taxpayer is liable to pay this fee and then, on the other hand, is entitled to a reduced fee or report, the one who collects the fee on behalf and on behalf of the State. I always understand that the debtor is a company, a firm that receives a decision and is bound to pay a fee, and that only this debtor can be taxed or excused, whether he returns or partially decreases. Perhaps it would be good if we could clear up this dilemma now, because I think that there's a part of the misunderstanding that comes out of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Willie Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I'm going to continue here, even though I was thinking first of all something other than my colleague, Auschwitz. I'm also saying that expression isn't best here. The debtor is defined in Article 110(4), the one polluting. Of course, it can be forgiven, it can be reduced or returned to it. But when it comes to the relationship between the congregation and the country, they don't play. I tried with the help of a colleague who is celebrating to find a term and tells me or advises me that it is permissible and usually in Slovenian to use the term "derogation". In fact, the State budget or the State waives the tax collected in its territory for the known purpose of investing in infrastructure prescribed by law. And if we use this or another similar term in Article 111, paragraph 4, then the dilemmas fall. The greatest dilemma has caused that return already paid. But who paid in - me as a citizen on a jury account of a municipal company or a municipality. To me, the state gives nothing back, forgives or gives up the congregation, what I have paid for the approved investment programme, which is once again. Therefore, I think it is essential that we adopt the first and second amendments first, because if not, then not only that the closed substantive matter is not playing and is bad or unacceptable, but then that Article 111(4) must be corrected in the third reading with an appropriate supplement, so that it is clear that the State resigns to the municipality - this is indeed a dedicated transfer to investment for the purpose of the means for the known purpose. There can be no unintended consumption at the municipal level, even after the basic version of this system, which we all want to establish together. But the other thing was already said, so I wouldn't say it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond to this debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you. Although I think that Member Trofenik has highlighted another dilemma which, despite our text, remains open. But I wanted to respond to what Mr Štemberger said before, which I do not see now, and Mr Mamić. The refund of the already paid fee means exactly what we were talking about an hour ago, and you liked it all; so to gather this, this is formally now considered to be the refund of the already paid fee, and if that word were not in article 11 - and we did not throw it out, the Infrastructure Committee is on the basis of an amendment - I think that Mr Sok, or I will not say who - one member of the opposition, then this option is no longer. We just wanted to bring her back with the amendment of the four groups of Members, which I believe you were all for. Thus, of course, the government agrees with such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you. Can we close the debate on Article 111? I see you can. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on Article 124, in which the three amendments of the same four groups are tabled. Anybody want to talk about them? I can see he doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 124 and the three amendments to this Article. I am moving on to the debate on Article 128, in which three amendments have also been tabled. Anybody want to talk about them? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 128 and the amendments. I am moving on to the debate on Article 130, in which one amendment of these four groups is tabled. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 130. I am moving on to 132th Article, to which one amendment of the four coalition groups has been tabled. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 132 and the amendment. I am moving on to 133rd Article, to which an amendment of the same parliamentary groups has been tabled, not to repeat, DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. Nobody wants a word. I conclude the debate on Article 133. I am moving on to 135th Article, to which one amendment of these four groups is also tabled. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 135 and the amendment. I turn to Article 152 and the amendment of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Comrade Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We propose that the content of Article 152 be amended; I am already on the Infrastructure Committee with the Minister of Principles. I must say that, somehow, I was attracted by some of the NGOs present, because if the Minister - i.e. 152 - has to read with 153rd and 154th - if the Minister of NGOs confirms with a decision if the Minister keeps records of non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection, then, of course, I say that they are no longer NGOs, but in fact they are owned by the Minister of Environment and Space. Although he has comforted me that this will not occur in practice and that it is unnecessary to cultivate some form of mistrust, but this proposal is from some, I would say, pure political hygiene, because such a solution in this law, which leads to the fact that NGOs are involved, leads to an urgent conflict of interest. On the one hand, NGOs defending their interests and on the other hand, of course, the Minister, who, as a government representative in these matters, must defend his interest. We propose an amendment, namely, Article 152 proposed, which is unacceptable, since the role and impact of NGOs in relation to the existing 1993 law even reduces or more subjugates the decisions and influence of the Ministry, makes their work very difficult in this way, with a number of conditions already fundamentally restricting and so on, all in our opinion contrary to the spirit of the Aarhus Convention, as well as the most recent international conventions and recommendations, particularly the United Nations. The proposed amendments to Article 152 follow the spirit of the Aarhus Convention. Non-governmental organisations and companies which have this activity defined in their statutes shall be allowed to participate in all decisions relating to environmental protection as encouraging as possible, this is without limitation. However, their competence and fundamental practical limitation, so that anyone who is accidentally loved to participate in this control activity cannot, however, provide a basic condition that this activity is defined in their statutes, is said to be in the statute of a certain non-governmental organisation. This has been confirmed by the official administrative authority which has registered a non-governmental organisation or society, in our view, by the Ministry of the Interior. Basically, any modern country that has identified itself for environmental protection should be pleased that its citizens have the will and need to establish such non-governmental organisations and societies that are practically free of pay or voluntarily and voluntaryly corrupt by environmental protection and are willing to exercise control over the implementation of such legislation. This new 152 also provides for the creation of sub-legislative acts in the actual form of means of making proposals and in particular the commitment of state institutions to respond. So, proposal 152 of the article, if I read it for the public. We propose that paragraph 252 be amended to read: Firstly, the activities of control over the functioning of state institutions and public services in the field of environmental protection may also be carried out by NGOs and societies which have defined this activity in their statutes. I have already said that the Statutes under registration shall be approved by the Ministry of the Interior when, of course, it registers them. Secondly, NGOs and societies referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall have free access to all environmental information, may be present and may cooperate with proposals at all meetings of any national institution when discussing and deciding on environmental issues. So, I repeat, at all the meetings of the state institutions, when the issue of environmental protection is discussed and decided. Under-laws shall regulate all forms of means of making proposals and questions by these non-governmental organisations and societies and the manner in which and form of responses by a particular State institution to these proposals. Therefore, since the Minister has already stated in the introduction and explained that this law is essentially changing in a good way because of how NGOs are supposed to cooperate in the field of environmental protection, and because these are also the requirements of the European directives, in the first place of the Aarhus Convention, we have proposed this solution and we are confident that if we really want to follow some democratic principles of the functioning of NGOs in this area, such a solution should also be adopted. Unfortunately, I know that she will be rejected here today, as she has also been rejected on the committee, but I must say so. The NGOs that were present there also kind of gently supported this, warned that we are right when we are talking about conflict of interest, but because everything is somehow, even through the form of government-dependent financing, of course they do not hope to speak out for some other views, because unfortunately in our country this system is still operating on the principle of 'roots and sticks'. Forgive the expression, but also the debate on tax reform has shown, rather than increasing the overall relief by 3%, allowing citizens to decide for themselves which NGOs will finance through this overall facilitation through the proposal of tax legislation, we are even reducing this overall relief to 2%, and thus we are working even more independently of government and government institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u193	Such a provision is absolutely unacceptable for two reasons. First of all, it says that surveillance is a matter of NGOs. Control under the provisions of this law is a matter of inspections. Secondly, it says that NGOs could be present at any public body meeting, make proposals and participate - at any time. This is the provision of this amendment. This means, at all the meetings of the Constitutional Court, at all the meetings of the National Assembly, now we could ask for a word here, we should change the rules of procedure of the State Assembly to that end, at all government meetings, in short, anywhere. It seems to me that it is simply not appropriate for some normal functioning of a country where institutions have their powers. NGOs, however, are here to criticize them in public if criticism is needed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - I apologize - and briefly exercise control in terms of the public. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Also Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u195	I'm fixing the minister again, I've told him that many times, even on the board, but he keeps saying that. Thus, NGOs and societies have defined this activity in their statutes. We know who registers NGOs and companies and that they also have to submit status to registration. In order to be present at all meetings, Mr Minister, of any state institution when it comes to discussing and deciding on environmental issues. Why not be present at the Constitutional Court when it comes to environmental issues? I repeat when it comes to environmental issues. In fact, I miss that they are not here in Parliament today, that they are not sitting here. As for their cooperation, I will read again: "All forms and means of making proposals and questions by these NGOs and associations are regulated in the sub-legislative acts, and the way and form of responses by a particular state institution to these proposals is determined." This was our proposal, a day to discuss. Of course, it could also be complemented in some segments as a billmaker or as a government. But this proposal would go in the light of what you are explaining - that we have to deal with environmental problems and make them known to the public because all citizens and citizens have the right to be aware of the environment they live in. I've already said in the beginning, the environment isn't mine or yours, but it's from all of us. And the state should, if I say so, ensure that its citizens and citizens are informed aggressively. This would, for example, be a model developed by the state-of-the-art democratic countries, which, therefore, are not economically less successful, even more successful. As an example, once again I can give you Scandinavian countries. What you are insinuating is that you, by a decision of this organisation, will set them up to keep records of these organisations, and of course this is not what you want and tell the groups to achieve this law. It is simply an area called a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, you don't want to understand that, and you just don't want to handle it properly. It will certainly be yours, so you will have a law before the European Union to show how these things are arranged, but it will not be what is expected of you in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u196	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mr. Richard Beuerman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am speaking because the Minister is running out of time, and Mr Sok is actually making a happy use of this fact. I mean, what's this all about? As far as I am concerned, I have always been in favour of environmental protection organisations, NGOs, even within the Global Parliamentary Group, for years and years, and we are still doing what we are doing to open up room for action and to inform all environmental organisations in Slovenia; and some of them are also very good at using and exploiting what I think is right and right. Personally, I am very pleased that the amendment was adopted on the Committee to make all environmental information public. This is a significant achievement for me, or it seems to me that when environmental information becomes public, the normal functioning of NGOs is also possible. I certainly think this amendment is going my way, too, across some normal border. And I would like to ask Mr Sok if he can serve with any comparative legislation, if any country anywhere in the world has settled this matter in the way they propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you. Comrade Sok, it's still available for a few seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you very much. It is just enough to answer Mr Beumann, who has been with me in Brussels and has heard that the information is public, requires the European Union, a directive. We didn't make that up and we would have accepted this amendment or not, we should have, because that's what they're asking us to do. However, I am very pleased that you have put yourself in the role of the minister's advocate and that you are also putting amendments on his behalf, when necessary, or on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u200	Anyone else want a word of this? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 152 and the amendment tabled. I'm moving on to Article 161.a. Please take into account this amended content of Article 161.a. Anybody want a word on that? Joz Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u201	Well, first of all, I would like to touch upon the penalties that are generally prescribed in environmental legislation; and there are enormously high penalties. Such were the penalties provided for in the basic amendment, which reads: fine 10 million for the offence - the operator of the device - of Articles 68 and 82, with a fine of 5 million and another legal person, if - and so on. Now this same sentence is reduced seven times, which is unusual for you to prescribe or impose such a low sentence. In fact, the second thing that bothers me about this is that in the next part of the person responsible, it is still a substantial lower sentence, or 450 million, while for the sole entrepreneur, if he carries out the activities referred to in Article 1 or in the first paragraph, you prescribe a million and a half. And I think it's some sort of imbalance. And there is a particular problem everywhere where there is a difference between interventions to space and environmental problems, where penalties are prescribed for individuals, for example, in the construction of buildings where there are up to 30 million penalties; and in those cases where the public sector is concerned, this will of punishment is substantially reduced. It's substantially decreasing. In fact, I am interested in the reason why there is such a different approach to the same area, namely to public services, to the public sector, to responsible persons from, I don't know, inspections, ministries and others, and, on the other hand, to purely ordinary citizens who carry out certain activities. In short, I would like to explain for such a drastic change in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you. Minister, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u203	It's just a matter of complying with the law on offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u204	I conclude the debate on the amended amendment of Article 161.a. I turn to the debate on Article 168 and the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 176 and to the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, the coalition parties to this Article. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to Article 178, as well as the amendment of these four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I'm moving on to 180. Amendment of the same four groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I now move on to Article 186 and follow once again this amended amendment to Article 186. Anybody want a word? Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Maybe more for an explanation and one question for the proponents. So, it's a chimney service and it's a matter of enforcing the 148th article of the law, which made the chimney service, if by the old law, which will be repealed, I speak public service. And by 186, 187, Article 187 speaks of how concessional relations between the municipality and the existing companies engaged in this activity, or individuals in 187, either by concession or by any other provision. On the basis of the two amendments which he tabled on the Committee and which were adopted, all three parliamentary groups prepared and tabled, on the basis of an agreement with the Government, an amended amendment, an amendment of both amendments. Today, we received additions to the table. In the light of the rapid review, I believe that the content of the amendments adopted by the Infrastructure Committee is covered by this, but I am really interested in confirming whether this is only a nomotechnic or a substantive change because it is a rather demanding process of discontinuing concession contracts and transferring from the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u206	Thank you very much. It is a bit unusual, otherwise we should have an answer on our own, because these four groups of Members are the proponents, and yet I will give my word to the minister that he is trying to solve this problem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u207	At the notice of the Legislative Service in the National Assembly, these four parliamentary groups have slightly rectified their nomotechnical amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u208	Joz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u209	Just for an explanation. I was an investor of the amendments on the committee that were adopted. On the basis of an agreement between, an obvious service for legislation and the Ministry, the groups prepared these amendments, which I did not participate in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this amended amendment by Article 186. I'm moving on to 187. It's the same thing. This is an amendment to Article 187. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. And I am moving on to the last amendment, or the last article, to which the amendment of the Party of Young Slovenia has been tabled, this is Article 193. Anybody want a word? Comrade Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you. I'd just like to tell you what the point of this amendment is. The essence of this amendment is that if it is not adopted, then the membership of the municipal companies in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be mandatory and now it is not. In fact, in Articles 99 and 110 of the Environmental Protection Act, it provided for active economic institutions and public undertakings engaged in environmental protection activities to cease membership in the General Chamber of Economic Affairs. At the same time he legalised the association of these legal, natural persons in Slovenia's independent municipal chamber. This is clearly explained by the Constitutional Court’s decision to reject the initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 31 of the Commercial Law and Article 1 and Article 20 of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In explanation of this decision, the Constitutional Court finds that the legislator, in its 110th Article of the Environmental Protection Act, provides that public institutions and public undertakings engaged in environmental protection shall cease membership in the General Chamber of Economic Affairs on the date of reorganisation under the provisions of the Law governing economic services. And that the legislator has legislated the merger of economic public institutions and public undertakings engaged in environmental protection activities into a special chamber and that this is an exception to the general rules on the integration of economic operators laid down in Article 1 of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This means that if this amendment is not adopted, this will no longer be an exception, and the Municipal Chamber of Slovenia will slowly die or municipal companies will have to join the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia under the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia under Article 1 of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u212	Thank you very much for this debate. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u213	The 110th article you want to keep alive was already consummated in 1994, which is ten years ago. That's why it makes no sense. Furthermore, Article 99 does not provide a basis for the municipal chamber to continue or not to live. To be perfectly honest, however, we are interested that we do not have two chambers, but that we have one because we have a problem because we do not have a real partner to cooperate with and because we are more or less engaged with each other than that we should deal with what we should do in accordance with the convention provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u214	Thank you. Comrade Štemberger, you don't have any more time, otherwise, but with the last amendment, there's still time. [[...]] Please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u215	But there's no exception. We've got a bunch of rooms like this. Among other things, it's a living room. Why do we have to end the community now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u217	What you just said is not true. You're making this up. The living room is not compulsory, it is voluntary, who wants to be inside, who doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u218	Can I also conclude the debate under Article 193? Thank you all for the debate, for the cooperation. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is at 8:30 a.m. I'm putting an end to this 8th item of the agenda. The meeting will continue at 4:40 p.m. with agenda item 11. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u219	Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members! Good-bye, everybody! We're moving to 11. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Energy Programme. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. To the words of the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Master Janez Kopač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u220	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members! You have before you a resolution on the national energy programme to replace the adopted resolution on the strategy for the use and supply of Slovenia with energy in 1996. The national energy programme was foreseen in the 1999 energy law. Otherwise, it was to be made within one year of the entry into force of that law. Well, it's been a while now. It's been a long time, in agreement with the general public, and now it's right here in front of you. In particular, I would like to point out that he was unreservedly supported in the professional energy circles and that he has recently been supported by the Academy of Sciences and Arts. The national energy programme identifies three key energy objectives in Slovenia. These are the security of energy supply, supply competitiveness and a range of environmental objectives, short-term environmental orientation of energy policy. With this, we are responding to all three fundamental challenges offered by energy policy today, knowing what is going on in Europe with market liberalisation and the first downturn, but now with a substantial price rise; knowing what is going on with different eclipses, for example in California or last year in Italy, and knowing that we have a ratified Kyoto Protocol and that we have a number of other commitments in the main European directives regarding the quality of the environment. All of this must be responded to by Slovenian energy, is already responding in practice and we are now formalising this response in the national energy programme. I will not read to you, as this has been highlighted many times in the public debates so far, on all concrete objectives in the area of security of supply, supply competitiveness and all environmental objectives. I would just like to point out briefly what may not have been so present in the debates so far, and it has even been obvious to us that this is not in the national energy programme - this is the financial resources that we are going to need to achieve all these objectives. On average, funding for the implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy programmes is estimated at almost 7 billion tolars per year, totalling almost 49 billion tolars in the period 2004-2010. The funds we will use to promote electricity from renewable sources and cogeneration, i.e. from cogeneration, are already 4.2 billion tolars and will increase over the years. The means for implementing individual projects in additional electricity supply, i.e. for the construction of new power plants, should be only about - here we can only talk about a very approximate number - about 165 billion tolars by 2010. For investments in transmission network facilities and distribution network facilities, it is anticipated that between 2004 and 2012, we will need 289 billion tolars. In terms of investments in gas pipelines and compressor stations, we expect to need almost 50 billion tolars in the same period. If you just listen very gravely to these numbers, you will probably know that this is a huge amount of money that you will not want to invest in this sector. It is important, however, that both the energy law and the national energy programme also define resources, and that these are not fictional figures, that these are projects that follow these key three directions from the national energy programme, I repeat: security of supply, competitiveness of energy supply prices, environmental care. I guarantee that the national energy programme represents an appropriate combination of all these three objectives for which the state is in fact obliged to care, because if we were overly inclined to one or the other, then we might have a very nice situation in one of these three areas, but we would have severe difficulties meeting the requirements of the other two areas. That is why every national energy policy is a compromise among these three objectives, and I am sure that the national energy programme we are presenting here today is an appropriate compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 50th meeting, on 15.1.2004 and at its 52nd meeting, on 12.2.2004 and 53rd meeting, on 9.3.2004, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a motion for a resolution on the national energy programme, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration under Article 13 of the Energy Law, on 7.11.2003. Representatives of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of the Environment, the Republic of Slovenia Energy Agency, the Republic of Slovenia Agency for the Effective Use and Renewable Energy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of the University of Ljubljana, the Slovenian E Forum participated in the meetings of the Committee. At its 50th meeting, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment began its consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme by placing it in a dilemma as to whether the document submitted corresponds to the provisions of Article 13 of the Energy Act in accordance with its content and structure. Members of the Committee considered that further information should be obtained on individual open issues prior to the adoption of the draft resolution on the national energy programme and that a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the Committee and to make a public presentation of the opinions in the draft resolution on national energy programmes. The Committee adopted a decision on the organisation of a public presentation of opinions and set the date on 4 February of this year. He also set out the questions to which the public presentation of opinions would provide additional answers. At its 52nd meeting, the Committee held a presentation and general discussion on the draft resolution on the national energy programme. In doing so, the applicants presented the basics and baselines for the development of the national energy programme, the chronology of the creation of this document and the guidelines for the implementation of the objectives set. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service recalls that the material submitted has a higher nature of the resolution on energy policy than on the national programme in view of the content being produced. It considers that the presented material should include more specific programming orientations for individual energy systems by assessing planned development, in particular planned investment in public infrastructure with the envisaged resources, including expected investments by private investors. It also notes that the proposed material provides for the establishment of new institutions or new competences of existing institutions in specific areas of energy supply, which will require the prior identification of an appropriate legal basis. In the general debate on the follow-up committee, members of the Committee and other participants highlighted the issue of the use of renewable energy sources. They also considered that there were no specific measures to reduce energy consumption and reduce environmental impacts by pollution. Especially in view of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is a co-signatory of a large number of international agreements and protocols. The members of the Committee considered that there were no clear definitions as to the measures, the way in which controls were financed and carried out in order to ensure that energy consumption was reduced, particularly for large consumers, who are also major pollutants. At the end of the general discussion, the members of the Committee considered that, subject to the amendments tabled and when the Committee's amendments to the draft resolution on the national energy programme, a document could be submitted to be completed and also forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration. Following the discussion at the 53rd meeting of the Committee, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual parts of the proposed act and the amendments tabled. He also accepted his amendments. In the framework of the business deadline, the amendments were tabled by the SMS group, Member Janez Komljanec, Member Zoran Gračner, Igor Štemberger, Branko Kelemina, Branko Janc and by the Group of Members Zoran Gračner, Miran Jerič and Matjaž Švagan. Following the second reading of the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled and adopted a series of amendments tabled by Members and a group of Members. The Committee has also drafted a number of its amendments so that the Committee considers it a proposal on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the national energy programme has a suitable basis for admission to the national assembly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Alojz Sok will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u224	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, fellow Member and Members! The resolution on the energy policy of the Republic of Slovenia is written and prepared depending on the signed Kyoto Protocol. This resolution on energy supply in the Republic of Slovenia will determine whether the Republic of Slovenia will implement what we signed in the Kyoto Protocol. Of course, this resolution also depends on how we will protect and protect the Slovenian environment in the future. The Kyoto Protocol is a document that discusses how the next decade will reduce the quantities of the most important gases affecting the emergence of the so-called World Warm. These are mainly carbon dioxide and methane and nitrogen dioxide. Among these is the most important carbon dioxide released when burning fossil fuels, namely coal, oil and natural gas. Methane and nitrogen dioxide are released mainly in agriculture. Due to the rise or fall of the average temperature, the amount of moisture in the air changes and this affects the climate. Some floods occur, others occur droughts, tornadoes and monsoon storms change their course, melt or increase glaciers, move deserts, and so forth. In recent years, however, we have also experienced the weather effects in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. In the world, let's burn an unknown amount of coal every year. With natural releases, the global industry also releases massive quantities of greenhouse gas produced into the atmosphere, so that I am not talking about personal and freight traffic at all. The most optimistic and modest estimates are that the average temperature on the surface will only rise by about 2% and pessimists do not rule out the possibility that it could even be three times higher, i.e. 6%. What does this mean in the last 30 years, when each year the weather conditions have become much worse, despite the fact that the temperature has risen on average only by less than half a degree? When we were members of the Infrastructure Committee in Brussels a few days ago, we were able to hear about the Pentagon's report, which, in the blackest scenario, suggests that the current use of fossil fuels could increase temperatures so quickly that the city of The Hague and Amsterdam could be underwater by 2007. In 1992, the so-called United Nations Convention on Climate Change was born in the United Nations, which was signed in Rio de Janeiro on 9 May 1992. The importance of this Convention or the response is in the realization that mankind as a whole must do something about it and that it must aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. The objective of the Rio Convention was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 emissions by the signatory countries by 2000. Towards its realization, it has been shown that the obligation of individual countries and the objectives to achieve them, as recorded, are not sufficiently binding. On the one hand, the technological changes needed to achieve the objectives of the Convention are so extremely expensive that less developed countries could not even get closer to promises, especially because they wanted to develop even faster, and on the other hand the developed countries did not want all the knowledge, data and technology equipment to be given to anyone wishing to do so at an agreed low price. This situation has not changed the situation significantly since the signing of the Rio Convention. The Kyoto Protocol was established in 1997. The Kyoto Protocol states that some very real and long-term decisions need to be made regarding global climate conditions. Unfortunately, these decisions are mostly unpleasant, expensive and demanding for the world’s nations. Some of the benefits that this part of the world considers to be self-sustaining and less developed countries in all areas should also inevitably come from using more environmentally friendly but much more expensive technologies. That would slow their development. Rich countries should further target the development of completely new technologies in the subsidised transfer of these technologies to less developed parts of the world significantly more money than they have so far. Slovenia signed the Kyoto Protocol on 21 October 1998 and ratified it on 2 August 2002. The ratification, together with other European Union signatories, committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by the end of the first control period, which is between 2008 and 2012, based on the baseline period 1986. Since Slovenia has not yet taken part in the formation and signing of the Rio Convention, its initial sources of pollution with greenhouse gas emissions from the 1990s are unclear. In view of the delay in publishing fresh data that would serve the requirements of monitoring progress, Slovenia has also experienced the first criticism. Our Ministry of Environment and Space responds quite a bit, with promises that everything will be done by 2008. Unfortunately, we know from practice that the completion of such challenging tasks will not be possible in the last year or two. It is necessary to start working immediately and continuously. Above all, we need to invest properly in those energy projects that will actually be useful. The fact is that the amount of greenhouse gases in the Republic of Slovenia has not decreased in recent years, but is even increasing. Since serious opposition activities within the civil society of Slovenia are almost undetectable in this area as well - most green activists, knowingly or unconsciously, support government policy and do not want to be sharply criticised - Slovenian data on greenhouse gas emissions are difficult to access and insufficient. And worst of all, despite the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol, the government does not publish them on a current basis and in such a way as to make them known to all citizens of Slovenia. With more frequent disclosures, the government is obliged to inform the public of progress and thereby raise the environmental awareness and control of the public in fulfilling its obligations undertaken by the signing of the Kyoto Protocol. In this respect, the public in Europe, especially in Scandinavian countries, is significantly better informed than we are. Although the Slovenian industry has been extremely wasteful in the last 50 years because of all the crazyness - we spend almost four times as much energy per unit of product as the developed industrial state - the new energy plan of Slovenia that we are now adopting is, according to expert and other NGOs, a real disaster to achieve the objectives of the Kyoto Agreement. In addition, the new plan is also environmentally-friendly in other aspects of environmental protection, such as water protection, groundwater and so on. Instead of accelerating and encouraging and taxing the transfer of environmentally more appropriate technologies and replacing more wasteful procedures with newer ones, the Slovenian government declares, on every occasion, how much better we are than the United States, which has not signed the Kyoto Agreement and Slovenia does. It would also make sense to recall wisdom that it is better to be aware of our own weaknesses and quickly and effectively to develop methods and procedures for their elimination, rather than to make our voices known how ready we are to do all this and, in fact, to do exactly the opposite. If, on the one hand, the United States develop new, more environmentally friendly technologies and, together with Russia, which has not signed the Kyoto Protocol, at least maintain greenhouse gas levels at 1990 level, which would not achieve the required targets, they will do more for the world than Slovenia if, despite signing and increasing its behaviour, it even increases. We also, especially in the area of environmental protection, want to have a modern and general benefit-oriented policy. The question is why, in essence, Slovenia has agreed to an 8% reduction in greenhouse gases in the framework of the Accession Union Member States in 1986. We also asked the members of the Infrastructure Committee in Brussels, and we were advised there to ask our Slovenian government, so I ask now. The government in the energy programme resolution gives high priority to renewable energy sources. By 2010, primary production is expected to increase primary energy, renewable energy to 12% and electricity production to 33.6%. Whether this is also realistic in terms of the financial possibilities and the financial resources allocated by the Government for this purpose. With regard to renewable energy sources, I would like to touch on certain areas and give an opinion, in line with the debate that took place on our New Slovenia Economic Committee. Wind energy. The government envisages the construction of wind power plants, while arguing that wind energy is entirely at the price level of conventional energy technologies. This thesis is completely flawed and, from an energy strategic point of view, such a way of acquiring energy is not reliable. Energy comes at intervals that cannot be calculated. In the 1980s, a study was commissioned by the German Government to calculate the possibility of electricity generation for the northern German region, i.e. the coast with constant winds. The study showed an absolute lack of economics. The wind park built in Lachtal in Austria by Tavenvin AG in 2002 and 2003 showed a catastrophic financial result after one year of production despite a highly subsidised electricity tariff. The circumstances and expectations were clearly below expectations. We can add to this the fact that the initial projects were strongly supported by naturalists, but now that they have realized that they are seriously distorting the appearance of the hills with windmills, then the landscape's sporadicity and that these devices are uncomfortably loud, and that they are causing the disappearance of birds in large areas, and these naturalists have changed their minds and started to oppose these projects in some way. The use of biomass is thought to be economically interesting. However, it should be said that the amount of energy that can be obtained from biomass is generally less than the energy needed for transport and the processing of biomass itself. Other expensive appliances and other production costs must be included. In combination with waste disposal, we can possibly expect better results, but technology is more difficult and more expensive there. In an ecological sense, the use of biomass is a welcome activity, as every year in our country there is a large number of areas of farmland that transforms into forests of the worst category. However, economic eligibility is limited to a maximum area of 20 kilometres around the facility, with the aid of large State subsidies. It may be possible to build one central device in Slovenia, where the collection and production of choppers and the burning of biomass along with other wastes, perhaps in the Trbovlje thermal power plant, which should be thought quietly, seems to us an extremely irresponsible and economically unjustifiable act. In addition, I would like to point out that the great problem of biomass production is also the lack of physical force in rural areas. If forest economies were involved, which also received the best Slovenian forests in the 20th year of concession, this would all increase costs. In addition, I would like to mention that the government has been preparing a biomass use programme for several years, since 2000, to be extremely ambitious, but in practice, it will not come to life because of the lack of funding. Incineration of waste like heat and electricity. Even today, the state-of-the-art incinerators do not meet the ecological operating conditions that the European Union is expected to prescribe in a law that will enter into force in 2008. In addition, there is great resistance in both the European Union and in our country. Incineration of municipal waste releases by-products, toxins such as dioxins, and this also leads to public opposition. The question is whether it will then be possible to actually realize this. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the unresolved issue of waste recycling in the Republic of Slovenia. By recycling waste, of course, they would also contribute greatly to the protection of raw materials with their own limitations. The recycling of waste will obviously take place on the basis of other thermal technologies such as pyrolysis, thermal incineration and other, which, of course, will again be extremely expensive. Other alternative sources, such as geothermals, geothermal energy is welcome for thermal, recreational, rehabilitation centres and the heating of nearby settlements. Solar energy, which the government has written down in the resolution of the energy programme. Solar energy is not suitable for electricity production. They need very expensive investments to generate energy from high state subsidies. The energy obtained in this way is a stick, only one watt per square metre. Eco-friendly devices are also highly controversial, as some toxic substances are produced and energy production is only possible during the day. Solar energy for heating sanitation in individual homes is certainly acceptable and more should be done here. On the basis of energy advice and subsidies, the government plans to reduce energy use by 10% in buildings by 2010. Some point out that the methodology for calculating the energy impact in buildings in November 2002 and, above all, the heat protection and efficient use of energy in buildings is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 42 in 2002 as a typical representation of the irregular linkage between the insulation materials industry and the government institutions that prepared these calculations. Some insulation materials recommending and prescribing our legislation prevent transport from the internal side of created moisture outside. Thus, the walls remain permanently damp and the building becomes more energy-efficient in a relatively short period of time than the energy calculations promise. Other insulation and construction materials, which are also recommended and prescribed by our legislation, are steam-proof, but not in both directions, while not promoting transport of excess moisture outside. New energy-saving insulation materials also save 30 per cent and more energy for heating and cooling buildings by regulating moisture, but it is necessary to amend Slovenian legislation to this end. And what New Slovenia believes would be feasible in the field of renewable energy sources. Much of the long-term electricity supply will be based on new hydropower projects. The construction of hydroelectric power plants is larger than 5 mg of watts in the European space, given the current electricity price, although it is not viable. The market price on the Frankfurt electricity exchange now varies between 20 and 30 euros per megahour. For a new hydropower plant, the average European price should be between 60 and 70 euros. From an economic point of view, the construction of the sub-save chain of hydroelectric power plants is totally unjustifiable, and at these energy prices the investment will not return until the next hundred years. And nowhere in Europe, larger hydro power plants are not built or planned in the short term. The total production of all five hydropower plants on the Lower Sava will be sufficient with 7% of the production energy of our nuclear power plant today. From the perspective of the long-term strategy for energy policy and flood protection, hydroelectric planning and occasional construction make sense. The enormous energy needs of the Chinese and Indian industries are expected to divert the flow of Russian energy from European areas towards Southeast Asia. At that time, energy will become even more meaningful in Europe, but we need to prepare for it today. Construction of hydroelectric power less than 5 megawatts, specific costs for the construction of small power plants increase inversely in proportion to their size. This means that the price of such electricity produced must be independent of the price of electricity on the market. It means that it must be subsidised by the State. Nevertheless, the construction of smaller hydropower plants must be encouraged, particularly for the following reasons. This decentralises production, reduces losses on the network due to the decentralisation of production, decentralises the construction of such units, in particular in undeveloped areas, and increases the distribution of investment capital between regions. One possibility of acquiring renewable energy sources is faster regulation of less incursions. More pests, such as Savinja or Mura, would prevent floods, raise groundwater levels, and this would also prevent more frequent droughts occurring in Slovenia. The construction of two or three hydropower plants on Mura is not mentioned in this energy programme at all. The energy policy regarding the exploitation of water resources seems to be wrong and this resolution does not end it. Of course, it is necessary to build cleaning appliances so that the water collected for the dams does not become in practice a well. Nuclear energy. The amendment introduced in this resolution also mentions nuclear energy, but it is assumed that Slovenia, together with Croatia, would build a nuclear power plant in the area of Croatian territory. This, of course, is impossible for us at a time when we do not even have the question of landfilling, and it would be really better if we could think about this in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. Europe, too, will most likely have to consider giving more emphasis to nuclear energy when reducing greenhouse gases. Let me touch just two more areas: one is transport policy. In fact, we do not have a traffic policy in our country right now. All we know is that transport contributes about one quarter to greenhouse gas emissions and that greenhouse gas reductions could be made most effectively in the field of transport. This means, of course, that investments in Slovenian railway infrastructure should be substantially increased and that part of transport should be diverted to the railway. The second issue referred to in this resolution is the production of biodiesel. In this resolution, we somehow commit ourselves to producing 2% of the fuels we burn in transport on the basis of the processing of the oilseed. These ideas in Slovenia are not new. These ideas already exist, but if, as is supposed to be the case with Nafti Lendava, they would build a biodiesel factory that would produce about 6,000 tonnes of this fuel, it would be necessary to plant 4,000 hectares of agricultural land, mainly in the north-eastern Slovenia area. Personally, I think that Slovenia does not have these available agricultural areas, because if on 4,000 hectares of agricultural surfaces they plant an oil mark for the production of biodiesel, then we should necessarily cancel the production of the sugar beet that our only sugar factory needs, that is, the sugar factory in Ormož. I think that more thought should be given to these matters, but so on to ad hoc, in the resolution itself, to write some objectives that are, of course, not feasible in the long term. Let me finish. Many Slovenian experts are the only ones who have the worst draft resolution on the national energy programme, including those countries that will join us in the European Union, and also those who will have to wait a decade or more to join the European Union. In a public debate, which I myself participated in, one of the recognised Slovenian energy experts said that our energy programme is worse than Albanian. Although the Minister said here today that all the more visible experts agree with this energy programme, this was not clear from the public debate. In New Slovenia we understand all the problems we face in solving this problem, but we do not really understand certain decisions. There should be a significant increase in resources and an incentive legislation for domestic investment in the energy field. Many bureaucratic obstacles in this area, such as obstacles to the construction of small hydropower plants, should be removed. We do not understand why the Slovenian government has agreed to an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions because we are the only ones among the acceding countries with such a reduction rate; I have already said that I have not received an adequate answer to this question in Brussels. We also do not understand the senseless decisions in the field of agriculture and forestry. Indeed, energy policy, if we are talking about renewable energy sources and biodiesel, is in many ways linked to agricultural policy. In this context, however, the question arises why we have given Slovenian forests in a 20-year concessional relationship to forest economies, why we have left agricultural land in the management of stock companies instead of expanding farms to enable them to carry out complementary activities in this sector through biomass. We do not understand why the burning of bone flour, why agricultural money is focused on energy, why this issue is not resolved in a different way, and also through this expensive process, our environment is being burdened, so heat gases are being produced needlessly. Information should be given to the public and energy consumption should be reduced. The debate on the energy programme was adopted without the need for a longer public debate in which we could explore all possibilities with different aspects and, of course, with the cooperation of experts from different fields. In the program itself, all too often, there are non-binding dictions such as "we should", "predicted" and "wanted" and so on. In addition, there is a significant gap between the earmarked budget allocated to this area and the amount envisaged by this document in order to achieve the objectives and tasks of efficient energy use and renewable energy sources. In total, 7 billion, 6.9 billion Slovenian tolars, are allocated annually in the budget for this purpose. Of these planned resources, the Slovenian energy programme is, in our opinion, a continuation of energy policy so far, which is energy-efficient, environmentally burdensome and dependent on foreign energy sources, which means that Slovenia is not an independent country in this area. We cannot support him as such in Novi Slovenija. That is also what the debate itself has convinced us, which has been held here in Parliament. We are also convinced that with the amendments to the energy resolution to correct, this must be a document that is coordinated in various areas, that a longer and broader debate is needed in such a document. However, only by adopting a few amendments to the ruling coalition can it be argued that the energy programme of the Republic of Slovenia will be effective and that, on the basis of this programme, the Republic of Slovenia will comply with what it has written or has committed itself in the Kyoto Protocol, in particular because the Kyoto Protocol will be followed by Kyoto 2, which will also foresee further reductions in greenhouse gases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u226	Thank you very much for the words and a nice greeting to the representatives of the government and also to colleagues in the parliamentary benches. We have a complementary motion for a resolution on the national energy programme, which is a little more complete than the original government. Nevertheless, he still lacks an important part of the content, which is reflected in the comparison with the requirements of Article 13 of the Energy Law. Also in the public presentation of opinions and in discussions on the labour market, on the infrastructure committee, some apparent shortcomings were highlighted. These warnings are not only about the opposition's comments and concerns, which the government's top representatives have been constantly and everywhere, to say that it is only a valuable pre-election fight by promoting the government's intolerance and criticism, but that some members of the coalition have also joined in this opinion. On the Infrastructure Committee, coalition Members also launched arrows into their own government and their populist work, resulting in poor and enforced proposals for acts and laws, and civil society and non-governmental environmental organisations were particularly critical. Perhaps the majority of the coalition members who have gone into this document thinks as much as the opposition. But it is electoral time that requires uncritical loyalty and support with clenched teeth. The fact is that the positions Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular have made clear what we think of the national programme. It is clear from all the debates and from all of them that the majority of civil society and the majority of policies also think alike. In short, we are considering and adopting something that is not of great value and support, we are receiving, we are receiving more than work because of work, just to say that we have a resolution and that the work is done, and quality is obviously in another way. The assessment of this national programme is simply no longer a dilemma of the opposition: a position where the opposition critically assesses and analyses, but it is a matter of actual substantive and strategic developmental shortcomings. The quality is undeniably weak. The dilemma arises as to how to proceed and what to do. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that the proposed programme is not suitable for further consideration, while the government or the regime part of Parliament, despite legitimate and real concerns, has been defined for support, in particular because of the time in which we have set up. It is expected that this will also happen today, although even the authors of individual studies and professional backgrounds, i.e. a large, important part of the profession, are opposed to the programme. It should also be said that the applicant for the time offered, which has not been used well by public presentation and by interruptions of hearings, and many reasoned comments and concerns which would have a significant impact on the content of this document have remained disregarded. It is still obvious that we accept key development concepts and documents in times of pressure from real or imaginary deadlines, and especially under the influence of lobbyists who care little about the image and fate of Slovenia, their business and their earnings are essential. There are a number of questions that we do not have sufficient answers to. Let's say what Slovenia has in the field of energy, whether we want to be an exporter or an importer of electricity, what scenarios are possible, and what should be done to ensure that the European energy market is a promising European energy market, where energy is clearly still very low in the future, and will still be teased to see Slovenia as a provider, that is to say, as an electricity exporter and as a earner. Is there really no other option than to be a permanent addict, instead of being a permanent importer of capital and becoming a permanent exporter of capital, and to collect the largest margin for energy transactions, which may even needlessly export our capital? Do we have an appropriate policy towards the largest energy consumers, who are usually also very wasteful and irrational consumers who consume significantly more energy per unit of gross social product than foreign competition? Since these consumers are irrational and must be competitive in any way, they need a regressive, reduced energy price for the battle on the market, which means that the State has also decided in this case to co-finance the over-standard or luxury of these consumers. Does this country really have the sole objective of maintaining an unsuspecting energy-consuming industry that is usually very burdensome for the environment and health? In our Group of Members, we believe that it is imperative to define the relationship between large and consumer energy consumers, to foresee measures and restructuring programmes and to redirect them to more profitable programmes with higher added value, which are less energy-consuming, i.e. much more energy-efficient and also significantly less dangerous for the environment and the environment, i.e. for people. The effects would be significant, as a series of indicators would change, they would become less energy-dependent, more rational, they would need smaller stocks of energy, they would achieve the objectives of different protocols and agreements. And that's the way it is. In our opinion, too, there are not sufficient measures in the field of energy efficiency, not only in the economic and private sectors, but also in the energy-efficient public sector, where very large savings could be achieved at relatively low cost, but of course a systematic approach and sufficient resources would be needed. However, after some effective projects, there was no continuation. The funds envisaged are not satisfactory and therefore there is no specific motivation. A similar problem arises in the use of renewable energy sources, particularly in the use of wood biomass. We have a lot of this source. As a result of growth and, above all, inadequate agricultural policy, it is increasing. So the potential is increasing and the proportion of use is relatively low. The use of biomass is intended for the main industry, partly for private use mainly for heating purposes. About 70% or more of its energy value in the forest, which in the process of oxidation or combustion falls apart on the same components as for example in the henhouse. Even though we are much more forested than the rich neighborhood, Slovenia imports even less valuable varieties, such as for squirrels or for cellulose, due to its relationship with its resources. For us that are forested and rich in wood, the better quality use of biomass is not yet worth it. This also prevents the introduction of stimulations for the use of biomass for heating purposes. Is this really meaningful and necessary if we are to take a serious approach to reducing greenhouse gases? However, a policy of heating energy prices may also be explored to possibly regulate fuel prices, such as extra light fuel oil, to make wood biomass more interesting or more competitive. It would also be necessary for all the dedicated environmental taxes we have introduced to be deliberately spent on energy efficiency and renewable energy programmes, so as to invest intensively in rationalising energy consumption, in preventive measures, in increasing energy efficiency, in reducing dependence on foreign resources, in the use of own, available and unused resources. It is not permissible, as the government has suggested, to repay only half of the funds collected in solving environmental problems, thus introducing a similar anomaly as introduced by the government in the use of petrol tolar. Will half of the allocations in the integrated budget for non-intended projects be lost here as well? It is also true that the executive branch is likely to have decided on the pressure of the oil and gas lobby to convert Slovenian claims to Russia, Russian gas turbines and Russian natural gas. Russia will pay its arrears with material, that is with natural gas, and at the same time will ensure the permanent departure of Slovenia. Slovenia, however, will be forced to burden itself with extremely high and perhaps even unnecessary investment costs in the construction of a pipeline network and gas power plants producing the most expensive electricity. In this way, the Slovenian gas and energy lobby will provide itself with permanent long-term transactions, revenues and profits. It is definitely a forced decision, without sufficient professional grounds, i.e. without analysis. And in this resolution it has appeared to us as an inevitable fact. Although data on actual energy growth are not the most objective, the problem of lack of energy capacity is clearly exposed. Experts estimate that they can be replaced to the greatest extent by the construction of a new nuclear power plant. The proposed options for building a nuclear power plant in Croatia show little evidence, as it is more or less clear that the Croatian twin has long died. So we write something dead in the resolution, something that will definitely happen in the next fifteen, twenty years, and perhaps even never will happen. It is undeniable, however, that Slovenia’s energy problems escalated after the return of half of Croatia’s nuclear power plant. In the meantime, when we had the power plant fully under our own control, we restored this nuclear power plant and restored it to Croatia with the right to increased capacity. And the consequences of the country's inactive energy policy have also emerged in the last decade. In the energy field, the government is also pointing to the activities of the public company Primorska, a state-owned company which is an energy distributor, which has begun to buy land or is likely to be preparing for land purchases for the purpose or for the construction of wind energy facilities. Given that key guidelines and key documents and bases have not yet been adopted, it is certainly an irrational act, at the very least. I also believe that Slovenia is too small to be able to build and rationally exploit all variants of energy facilities to which science and foreign practice are made, as this is much, much too expensive for Slovenia. It would be much more appropriate for these public companies to deal with the modernisation and development of the electricity network rather than to engage in the unfair production of electricity. Given the need to make major investments in energy, it would also be necessary to process different approaches and scenarios, to process the possibility of concessional construction of buildings and networks, the possibility of other forms of private investment and privatisation should not be a taboo topic. Not particularly since there are various companies involved in the participation of the highest representatives of the public sector, including representatives of the public sector, including representatives of certain ministries and influential individuals, who are expected to share the energy market over all public definitions and documents adopted. Weakly processed heating is an area where the own resources of growing biomass can be used very well. In particular, transport is poorly processed, which contributes a significant proportion to greenhouse gases and to the country's high import dependence. It is clear that this is a poor coordination of transport, social and economic policies, since even the resources already allocated to individual sectors cannot be used in a coordinated manner. Such a problem is put forward by existing transport subsidies for pupils and students and subsidies from carriers, when about 5 and 8.5 billion tolars are distributed aimlessly and each minister is in charge of his policy. Governmental as an upgrade, but as a system, it cannot harmonise the sector's interests. The resolution would expect at least a few sentences on how to encourage the use of more cost-effective and environmentally less burdensome diesel vehicles, perhaps even the introduction of a system-wide subsidy for the acquisition of diesel-powered passenger vehicles, and certainly at least guidelines for the establishment of a rail network to effectively take over a larger share of freight, especially transit transport, which is now rolling through our roads and polluting the environment. The fact is that this resolution is highly interdisciplinary, i.e. an interdepartmental document and that several ministries, along with the Ministry of Environment and Space, at least the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economy, including the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs should be actively involved. However, according to the document, this is an independent project of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. The resolution should therefore be more developed, a significant greater weight should be given to both heating and transport, and more precisely defined and developed scenarios should be offered, and options should also be offered. This document does not have all this document, and the National Assembly does not actually have a choice today. It can only decide to accept or reject the option offered, which is incomplete and can be said to be bad. The resolution has also been drafted for three years too short, for only seven years instead of ten years. The great drawback of this document is also that it will almost not be possible to monitor it, as there are no built-in indicators or criteria on the basis of which government environmental and energy policy monitoring and efficiency in all these areas would be carried out. The document has a number of shortcomings that could only be partially remedied by the adoption of the two amendments proposed by our parliamentary group, which are summarised in accordance with the proposal of the Environmental Protection Council. In fact, the Environmental Protection Council has taken up discussions at a very high-quality public presentation and at the working body and has prepared an extremely high-quality and systematicly structured supplement. This would make the resolution on the national energy programme, I can say, conditionally agreeable, as it would impose on the Government, which, for any price, for optical and non-individual reasons, wants to achieve the adoption of this document, in order to prepare a quality, logically structured document within an additional time frame, and in particular a useful document that can also be monitored. That something is wrong with this resolution is not least reflected in the amendment to the energy law introduced by the Government, which, inter alia, provides for such changes as to address the shortcomings and non-compliance of this resolution with the applicable energy law. In doing so, the Government has itself confirmed that our concerns and objections to this resolution are justified and that this resolution is not prepared in accordance with Article 13 of the Energy Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Comrade Jože Tanko. Leopold Grošelj has the position of the United List Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u228	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we do not intend to ask why the adoption of the national energy programme is only now or why it has not been prepared within the time limit set by the energy law and whose content should contain the requirements of Article 13 of the Energy Law. We were aware, however, that the resolution adopted on the strategy for the use and supply of Slovenia with energy adopted by the National Assembly in January 1996 did not give effect to the adoption of the Energy Programme programme, nor did it contribute to the energy law adopted by the National Assembly in September 1999. However, it should be added to this conclusion that a number of professional bases have been developed during this period to produce a proposal for a national energy programme on the basis of which the Government adopted a proposal for an energy programme in July 2003. The resolution on the national energy programme is a political expert document that the country urgently needs. Therefore, in the UK Group, we believe that the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy have rightly decided that further information on individual open issues should be obtained before the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the national energy programme. The public presentation of opinions on 4 February this year has provided further answers to certain questions and confirmed expectations that the draft resolution programme on the national energy programme is difficult to expect. If I mention only some of the views of energy companies, which find that they are now exposed many times to unfriendly operating conditions caused by long-term and other procedures for obtaining consent, location documentation and permits for the construction, renewal and maintenance of energy facilities. Let me add to this the conclusion that the energy system is needed, very long, for years to take the investment decision to build new energy facilities and to realize them. Let me state just one more opinion that, given the projected growth in consumption, as well as the electricity situation in the immediate neighbourhood and beyond, a new investment cycle should be launched immediately, as investments need to ensure secure supply and environmental acceptability and the cost-effectiveness of electricity production, transmission and distribution. MEPs and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will present their views and monitoring of energy developments in the broadest sense of the word in the debate. However, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we note that the supplementary motion for a resolution on the national energy programme addresses an essential area of energy, and that is why Members and Members will be given adequate support for admission. As part of the time available in the framework of the parliamentary group, I will also briefly try to present the energy valley project of the thermoelectric Trbovlje, which would try to prove how we assess the strategy in this project today in the area of the current thermal power plant, with very clear objectives of the company's efficiency in all areas. We would also like to show that part of the strategy tomorrow what we offer at the current location. We want to present what we also want to do further, given the infrastructure and everything else that is in this space. We would also like to show how new production units will be aligned with the national energy programme. We will try to show or at least provide as information an overview of other development options and also show financial resources. If that time is not available today, I think that there will be an option within the framework of an updated energy law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We have before us a comprehensive document prepared by the government in cooperation with the professional public over the last few years. Among the key objectives of the programme, proposers define security, competitive energy supply and environmental protection. We think it's probably one of the last programs where environmental protection on, you could say, the last place. Soon we will come to have environmental protection in the first place, and then security and competitive energy supply. In some ways, the national energy programme is a justification for the change in the energy law associated with the upcoming accession to the European Union and the fulfilment of the commitments we have undertaken to do so. At the same time, the programme includes the transitional orientations and plans of Slovenia in the field of energy, which also means during the initial period of our membership in the European Union. We are very pleased that this national energy programme no longer includes the construction of a large power plant on the Idrijca River in Dolenja Trebusha. We are pleased, however, that there is a programme for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Soča River and on Drava, which is expected to take place by 2007 and 2009. In doing so, we think that these power plants are also very important for other activities, for people living near these power plants. In terms of tourism, let us also think about using water for other purposes. During the public presentation of the opinions, it was quite possible to hear a lot about Slovenia's alarming data on environmental protection. Compared to the current members of the European Union, Slovenia takes an unhonorable first place among energy consumers and in terms of the consumption of raw materials or materials. Indicators and their interpretation show that Slovenia is, compared to the countries of the European Union, fifteen, a country with environmental and income inefficient use of energy. Slovenia is a country with modest natural data in the field of energy, which makes the situation so much more difficult. With regard to the deployment of renewable energy sources, Slovenia has ranked last among the eight acceding countries considered. On 16 April 2003, an accession treaty was signed in Athens. In this accession contract, we provide for energy to produce 33.6% of electricity production from renewable energy sources in Slovenia in 2010. Small power plants are also listed. In particular, the use of wind energy, small power plants, biogas and biomass, as well as solar energy. It is also stated that in these years 20 to 50% will take advantage of the known potentials of these energies. How? During this period, just before accession to the European Union, when the assessment of accession countries and their readiness to join the European family are particularly common, we have become quite accustomed to being among the best-prepared acceding countries. But in the field of energy, it's dark. In fact, the European energy policy is not a common policy, but it is due to the emergence of oil crises in the world and, of course, as a result, also in Europe, foreign policy reasons in the early 1990s, Gulf War, and the onset of climate change. In the last two years, as many times as I have been in Brussels at Taex seminars, we have talked about a lot of things, but this year we are talking mainly about climate change. The speakers in front of me have already announced something. In the Mediterranean, we no longer have enough fish to eat, nor for industry, in France, 15,000 people died from the heat of last year and, as was quoted, a Pentagon document that, if the heat of last year continues, we will have in the Netherlands in the cities of The Hague, Amsterdam half a metre of water. This will be met by our Parliament in the coming period, because the world is changing too slowly. The Kyoto Agreement does not want to be signed by the major air pollutants in the United States, Russia is also hesitant and the question is also when China’s world’s largest polluter occurs, if, in 25 years, it is estimated, in China, as many cars as we now have, on 2 inhabitants of one, it will be 650 million cars, which will be more pollution than today with all the cars in the world. That'll be 25 years from now. In our view, Slovenia needs a resolution on the national energy programme. Undoubtedly, the 1996 one is outdated and the actual situation and circumstances have changed over the past 8 years and require a new document with different directions. In doing so, I would point to two things that are very important in this material. On the 95th page, where we are talking about renewable energy sources, the last sentence is: It will also be important to further simplify administrative barriers to investment in renewable energy sources. Finally, it happened once that we wrote it in the energy program. And if we are talking about changes in the emissions balance, especially carbon dioxide, because we promised to reduce it by 8% by 2012 we will have major problems. If we had 20 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in Slovenia in 1986, we could have 18.4 million on average in the coming years. In 1999, these emissions were 19.4 million tonnes. And last week, when we were at a seminar in Brussels, they showed us the table on which Slovenia is the worst ranked on emissions and will have the most problems how to eliminate these 8%. However, the question arises, in particular taking into account the position of some experts who have also participated in the public presentation of opinions, whether the present programme is radical enough in individual parts. It is necessary to introduce radical changes mainly in our heads in order to get closer and later to achieve the optimum European level. I would also like to highlight the problem of the use of wood biomass. The areas in Slovenia are growing, the increase in wood in our forests is large and the decline in annual growth is too small. One of the reasons is certainly the price, which is low and as such does not stimulate the increased cut. Data show that over the last few decades, several hundred thousand hectares of forests have grown due to changes in Slovenian and Slovenian values. We must be aware that the landscape's growth is already approaching 60%, that every year we have 7.5 million cubic metres of gross growth, and we are cutting less than 2 million cubic metres of net. To a large extent, poorer quality of forest growth needs to be directed towards production for industrial and energy purposes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that any restrictions and guidance on the way in which wood biomass is used are not appropriate. However, it is appropriate to consider how our forests, a renewable energy source, will be used as best we can. Here we mean suitable subsidies to forest owners working in the forest. Furthermore, it is important that the quality of forests improve, as it will have a positive impact on everyone, both owners, the local community, the country and, most importantly, the environment. In the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to include 2% of bioenergy, biodiesel, in the energy consumption structure is too great. We can hardly imagine such a large field where oil tails will grow, a cucumber from which we will produce biodiesel. There is almost no pollution of the environment after biodiesel since the plant does not contain sulphur in such quantities as to bind the fuel after combustion to harmful sulphuric acid, which is the main cause of acid rain, as is the case with organic fuels. The idea is beautiful, but in Slovenia due to the small available processing surfaces and disproportionately high processing costs are slightly utopian. There are also incentives that I will not read, but I think they are good, on page 136 of our motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that the state of use of energy resources is not optimal in both economic and environmental terms. The orientations covered by the national energy programme seek to improve the situation in this area. What we believe is his ability to read is, above all, a far-reaching vision of improvements. The present document of a strategic nature covers an extremely challenging area of critical importance for each country. The interdisciplinary nature of the problems involved in this document and the fact that it can achieve one goal to some extent poses a threat to another poses a threat to the authors, of course also to the State and to us an unappreciative task. In the parliamentary group, we assess that the resolution on the national energy programme is a document that our country urgently needs. We'll support him, too. But there's only one thing I'd like to draw attention to. On the page, it would be very good to turn the Italian word "Udine" into the Slovenian "I see" because this is a motion for a resolution on the national energy programme of the State of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Master Zoran Gračner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u232	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives and other colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the LDS Group, to present our position on the updated motion for a resolution on the national energy programme. The Republic of Slovenia has been implementing an active energy policy since 1991 and has obtained a legal basis in 1996, by adopting a resolution on the strategy for the use and supply of Slovenia with energy. With the implementation of the national energy programme, the 1996 resolution will expire as the circumstances on which it is based have changed significantly in the meantime. Let me tell you the main changes. A Protocol to the Energy Charter on Energy Efficiency was signed in 1997. In October 1998, Slovenia signed and in July 2002 ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which, in the same way as the European Union, assumed an obligation of 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the first target period 2008-2012 in relation to the baseline year 1986. During the period 1996-2004, the adjustment to the acquis of the European Union required Slovenia to sign and ratify many international environmental instruments. In 1999, the energy law was passed. In the same year, at the request of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, a referendum on Thermoelectrica 3 was held, which finally sealed the fate of the mining industry in Zasavje. Liberalisation of the electricity market has been introduced. In July 2003, the government adopted an operational programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the 1999 national environmental protection programme. The draft resolution on the national energy programme sets out the guidelines for Slovenia's long-term energy policy and was presented to the public for the first time on 5 September 2003 at the Chamber of Commerce in the context of a public presentation. Since July 2003, the text of the motion for a resolution has also been available on the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy's home website. All this time, comments, additions and opinions could be made. The updated proposal was adopted by the Government of the Republic at its 46th regular meeting on 6.11.2003 and sent to the National Assembly for consideration. The motion for a resolution was published in the Rapporteur in November 2003. The Home Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has considered the motion for a resolution at as many as three meetings. Another public presentation of opinions took place in the National Assembly on 4 February this year. We can thus claim that the national energy programme was created with the participation of the widest range of Slovenian experts in this field. However, the dynamics of its creation have shown a number of differences in viewpoints, uncovered areas and certain differences in the methodological approach. In the opinion of the Liberal Democracy Group, the resolution is in line with the requirements of the Energy Act and has been created in parallel with the operational greenhouse gas emission reduction programme and is therefore in line with it and also meets all the conditions of the Kyoto Protocol. In preparing the resolution, a comprehensive planning methodology was used, taking into account the different energy scenarios or the balance of energy use and supply of the country. Five different energy balances were calculated, taking into account two scenarios of economic development, one with a high growth rate of 4.2% and the other with a low growth rate of 3.1% of real gross domestic product growth by 2015, and two different intensive scenarios of efficient energy use and all production in local energy supply.The balance was selected which corresponds to the lower growth of gross domestic product and the implementation of intensive energy efficiency measures, the use of renewable energy sources and central supply through increased use of natural gas. The energy policy objectives of Slovenia as set out in the national energy programme are three: they are also integrated into three pillars of sustainable development, which define the reliability, competitiveness of energy supply and the impacts of energy management and energy on the environment. Among the main objectives of security of supply, I should mention the long-term preservation of energy availability at a level comparable to today's, the continuous rise in the level of technically reliable operation of energy networks and the rise in the quality of supply, the introduction of energy efficiency measures and the use of renewable energy sources, the maintenance of the current or at least majority ownership share of the country in all energy undertakings of national importance in the supply of energy and in all mandatory republics, economic public services, the achievement of the quality of electricity by end-users in accordance with international standards, the reduction of business risks and the more economically efficient location of energy resources in the market. However, the main objective of ensuring the competitiveness of energy supply is to accelerate the opening of electricity and natural gas markets for all consumers, except for households, by 1 July 2004 at the latest, including households, by 1 July 2007, to ensure more efficient and transparent operation of regulated energy activities and to promote scientific and technological development in the fields of production and use and energy. In the area of environmental management of the negative impacts of energy, two main objectives have been set, but they are also made up of targets across specific areas. This is, for the first time, an improvement in energy efficiency and, secondly, an increase in the share of renewable energy sources in the primary energy balance, from 8.8% in 2001 to 12% by 2010. The resolution is also in line with the general guidelines for the preparation of strategic documents, as the current and past state of energy supply in Slovenia, Europe and the world is widely and prominently presented in the initial four chapters. Based on these starting points, the fifth chapter produces long-term energy balances in the Republic of Slovenia. The energy use and supply strategy and the financial evaluation of the projects envisaged are presented in Chapter 6. Chapter 7 clearly defines the objectives and mechanisms as strategies for achieving the above-mentioned objectives. The last chapter, however, presents indicators that will allow monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of energy policy covered by the national energy programme. From all of this, we can conclude that we will support the resolution in the party and in the Liberal Democracy Club, and we will also support the amendments tabled by the coalition parties. However, we will not support some of the amendments tabled by the SDS party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The point that we find in the Slovenian National Party is that it is right to finally make a national energy programme once. Of course, we would like its contents to be richer, stronger, yet stronger. In the debate I listened to for a while, I did not know whether we were talking about ecological changes and requirements or we were talking about an energy programme. It's a good thing to clear up between ourselves, colleagues and colleagues. Secondly, all of you who believe that in the past, even in our former Yugoslav country together, there were many of us, we know that one and only truth is this, all economic and political theories have been telling that the state and its power are dependent on energy own resources. All countries that do not have at least 50% of their own energy resources covered are left to decline. And among other things, we have learned that the energy source is not just electricity, it's not just coal, it's food. And after all the interviews, I would like to remind my respectable colleagues that we are asking ourselves what we want. Kyoto, great, I'm not into pollution and I'm worried about what happens when we have two years instead of four. However, in a parable, it's nice to have a 4,000-dollar Porsche, I'm talking about 450 horsepower, and expect it to consume 3 liters, and nothing pollutes the environment. It's not working. We cannot now talk about cleanliness, beauty, exploitation, I do not know what kind of energy sources, but we know that, on the other hand, data are transparent, transparent, Slovenia is a country with scant energy sources, largely dependent on energy imports. Our country's energy dependency is between 73% and 75%, ladies and gentlemen! With domestic needs, if I say otherwise, we cover only 20% of primary energy. And if respected gentlemen from abroad, who supply us the remaining 80% of our energy, shut down our tentacles, we would be without it. And what do we have back there? Nothing. Nothing! It is true that the national energy programme, which is written, is flawed in a variety of elements, because in fact no thing is absolutely ideal. Slovenia is of the opinion that energy consumption is ineffective. After the use of energy, raw materials and materials, Slovenia is among the countries of the European Union where we are going with May 1st, and this is the decision of all Slovenes and Slovenes, which is, of course, not an ideal indicator. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the national energy programme should either increase or give full weight to the emphasis on increasing cogeneration of heat and electricity. Now, what it is, opinions are different; whether it's cogeneration burning, or it's--everybody would have their own idea. But the need is that we will have to use cogeneration in Slovenia. It maintains that the energy programme is either neglecting or even ignoring the wood processing industry. It does not affect the wood industry and does not think or think sufficiently about the use of cogeneration or the cogeneration of combustion and the use of wood mass. Allow me to touch on the essential problem that we see in the programme in the Slovenian National Party: this is: this does not have specific investments in energy infrastructure. That's true. He doesn't have any. Although we know that we all have different visions and goals in different areas. So also in the Zasavska Valley, where I think that, if the result of this country is seen, we can form an energy valley. Why not, if this country does not have enough of its own energy, and if it wants to have it, it can get it where it is most already done, of course, with all the accompanying measures that this country must offer. This means, from concern for the environment to compensation for the benefits that this country receives back. 200 years of mining is this year. We'll close the mine. Or 2007 or 2009, we'll see about that. Right or wrong. I fear that this country will ever unlock mines, both in Zagor and in the Rippers, and use the energy it shuts down if, of course, gross indicators are such that it is energy. I'm afraid this country forgets that when it closes, it didn't close the curtain and say, but now we're clean, beautiful, but if you look at the environment, how rudely it reached nature in all areas. And nature will always take revenge. It's a shame to have excuses and look for Kyoto. It's only right to respect it if we signed an agreement. It's a shame to be beautiful, and I don't know, I think Dr. Drnovšek is supposed to be talking about making, I don't know, a series of windmills that the Spaniards are even supposed to invest and build. I hear we've got that information. Of course it wasn't any of that. And it would be perfect if that were the case. In Slovenia we have a number of resources, but we cannot say now, but now we will just close everything up and use only water resources and wind resources, for which we have no idea how to use them. We need an agreement and an agreement between us. I, my colleagues and my colleague estimate that this resolution on the national energy programme is some source from which we can come, where we can identify that this country does not have enough of its own energy resources, that it needs to create more to find the points where these energy sources are, and that these points are set. Of course, in connection with what we said before this point, it says exactly that there, in that local environment, the state pays compensation for everything it is and what it will do. Even the nuclear power plant we have. Don't pretend like we're all out of order. No, this nuclear power plant is saving us. This country's mistake was that we didn't buy it and it would be ours. And not to be beautiful now, as the whole world is doing, but all those countries that are building organic and green have nuclear power plants. And do not believe the stories of all the green people in Slovenia, who have suddenly come together again and talk about how impure this country is, how everything is ugly, how ignorant and unwise this country works in the energy field. None of us are excited about dirt, but we're playing green, and they don't know. Are we all gonna be at home with the kerosene now? [[...]] And the kerosene to mess up, the dirt, the smell. I do not want to be confused, my fellow Members and colleagues, and I want only this, even on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to respect, respect, at least, the attempt of a resolution, a national programme. Everyone had a chance to cooperate, everyone had their own ideas. If we combine them together, with effort, and with our end, we don't like to eat all the dirt, we don't. But if we can agree, let us make sure that this country has its own energy, that this country will pay a fair price to all those who give up and at the same time protect all the people who are there. These people have to live, too. Thank you so much for listening to me, and I apologize for a few seconds late.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. First of all, I invite Mr Soka to the floor. You're out of time. I'm sorry. I wasn't paying attention. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In his opening remarks, the Minister said that this resolution of the national programme or whatever it was already called, since it did not matter, it had been coming up for quite some time. From the well-known information to me, it was at least eight years old, and I have somehow seen from some of the documents I have read about other matters, and I have also seen this information. In fact, in this national programme, I wonder what and how we could have done in this period without a strategic document and, of course, the consequences of all our work without a strategic document for 8 years are now visible in a wide range of energy fields. That's definitely it. Although we have now received a document, which, according to my assessment and also according to the assessment of several experts, is not only mine, those who learn a little better about these things than I personally have, have been told that this document is substantially extensive, full of unnecessary ballast, but it is not in this document what should be in this document. So, the short texts and the transparent tables, from which the basic data can be understood, say, the projects and tasks that need to be carried out, the dynamics, the necessary financial resources, the forms and so on, so that I will not make the dissertation here and the doctorate. All those who are a little more capable, you know how the tables are done and what should be in the tables, that they are very transparent and that something can be understood from them, or that even on the basis of such tables, monitoring is possible if you want, or monitoring, the implementation of a program. In short, the program is extremely loose and non-binding. It's only written in some predictions and so on. And what is the goal of this national programme being so loose and non-binding? I'm sure there's more to it than that. Firstly, it is likely that someone cannot or cannot write certain things specifically or does not want to write in particular, as it would be necessary for some to answer that things are inconclusive, that nothing is clear and that it will then be possible to do what is possible on the basis of daily policy and that they will then be able to manipulate individuals, lobbyists and so on as to manipulate as much as they wish. Politicians who are going to be there, of course, will be putting their writers where they're going to cingle slowly. This is probably the basic motive, so it has been done for a whole period of time, at least as far as it is known, since 1995 and it will probably take some time. While we have already had a few discussions on this and we have also made certain comments, we have had certain comments and Members and various interested organisations and so on, but when I review these new documents, I find that in fact very little or almost nothing of what we have proposed has not been completed and done as we wanted. Very little has been added, but above all I can say that I will say very little more. Let's say we've demanded a lot of extra tables and so on, but you don't know them at all and you don't want to do them. But you can't or you can't, that's another thing. So very, very, very badly improved this program according to the basic version. The Minister has also said earlier that a huge amount of financial resources will be invested in the energy sector in order to implement the energy programme and has also referred to billions and so on, but it is not exactly written how much, in what year, how much energy such or different, how many meters of gas pipelines, how many megawatts of electricity we need each year, and so on. This is less defined as how much it is worth, who can do it, now knows absolutely nothing, whether someone will finance, invest or not, whether it will be one or the other. That's a big question now, if it's not this one, it's going to be that one, it's going to be a lot, a lot, a lot of lobbying and setting up writers, as I said before. Finally, in that seventh chapter, which some sing so much, how special he is, and how all the wonderful whole chapter is arranged. Okay, if that's how you see it, I don't. It also writes something about reliable care and so on, but my assessment is that the biggest problem in all of this is, of course, that we have reliable care, but the most important thing in all of these is the price. The price is the same, given the competitiveness that is also envisaged in the objectives, if we are to pursue the objectives and interests of competitiveness, which is right - of course all such documents are so written - but here is the big question whether you have really followed the best solutions and the best economic solutions to the economy and the competitiveness of energy supply, proposing this concept. I don't think so. If we just look at electricity, I'll be specific. We know well what a kilowatt hour it is today from hydropower plants, we know well what a kilowatt hour from the nuclear power plant is, we know well what a kilowatt hour from the thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje is, but we also know how much it is from the Brestanica thermal power plant. We know these prices. And what we find is that coal, gas and oil are the most expensive energy. Here in these documents, we are essentially building on the strategy of increasing or maintaining production in supply, gas and liquid fuels, probably requiring a high price. If there is enough electricity in Europe and competition is really going to be the one that Europe is dreaming about and so are we, and that we can all be able to do so under the new energy law and all the guidelines that we also have on households to decide on where they are going to buy or buy electricity, then that's fine. If there's enough electricity in the European space and electricity is cheap there. Then you just build the most expensive electricity, as far as possible, maybe 100 tolars per kilohour. But I'm afraid and I'm afraid that there will be no electricity in Europe, because now we find out - those who follow these trends a little bit - that electricity is no longer available in Europe. This occurred when the market opened, and then it ran out because they also calculated that they were actually making almost a loss. And if there's going to be expensive electricity in Europe and we're going to produce expensive electricity, then what happens to our consumers, who's going to pay for it? Our consumers will pay, our households! And I ask you whether this is the goal, the strategic objective of the country of Slovenia, that our consumers pay expensive electricity in the long term or all the other energy products due to the wrong decisions that we will make today, because most of our energy policy is trying to solve with coal, gas, oil, that is, with expensive energy. But we know which energy is cheap and which should be encouraged. Personally, I say - well, perhaps sometimes we will shut down these large consumers and soon enough electricity, if this basic industry becomes unproductive, that is another thing - but the most important thing to do is to make my assessment of saving energy in all areas and to encourage saving, saving and saving, a hundred times! Because I firmly believe that everywhere - so the price should, of course, be slightly higher then, but it has to be saved because today, with electricity as well as all other energy in Slovenia, it is extremely scattered. So they're probably too cheap. However, I am not in favour of this as a politician or as one who decides on this fate to somehow shift to some expensive energy and thereby shift our bad decisions to households, to our consumers. One of the important things where we could get a slightly cheaper energy in the long term is certainly if we follow some of the trends that we recorded, where even the last two years of consumption, there was increased consumption, for example, if I am in electricity, there is even 5.6.7%, on average it is expected that this consumption would be 2.5 to 3% per year, then one of the effective sources, the constant power sources of the belt power plant. Now I'm not hurt because you broke my amendments where I suggested it would be smart, but I didn't make it up myself, then I saw, although I made it up myself earlier, and then I saw that other experts, great experts in the field of electricity in Slovenia, were saying that it would make sense if we ever built another block, it would make sense to build it in Krske, near Krske, where we have our infrastructure, where we have everything, and it would make a great deal of sense if we built a thousand megawatts at the same time. Thus, for a long time, otherwise in a longer period, the provided electricity would have a stable source, an extremely stable source of electricity. And it's relatively cheap. But now I don't mind that you broke my amendments, accepted the amendment of my fellow Member, Mr Janc, which he tabled after seeing that I probably did something. But it doesn't matter. That now we will support that we now support nuclear technology, you can imagine it, you can stage it, you can help someone, you can help another country take advantage of nuclear technology. That's bullshit. The country's strategic stupidity to force offers another country nuclear technology. Look how hard it was for us in old Yugoslavia to get to this nuclear power plant, the pre-nuclear technology. That's actually who remembers, I happened to be working at the nuclear power plant, and I got a lot of information there. I know what the interest of the old Yugoslavia was and the importance of building a nuclear power plant in Krk. It's a strategic project. It's not a small thing. This is one of the greatest technological achievements of the modern world, the use of nuclear energy. And we're going to do this to someone else right now, and we're going to invest there, so that some of the old 1970 agreements, or when they were created, are going to come true. That's stupid of me to say. Now I'm going to ask you a question. I wonder how you'll answer that. We have some information here. Look, I said earlier that in Slovenia electricity consumption is projected at about annual level, let's leave these two years ago when a slightly higher statistical consumption was recorded, about 5.6%. About two and a half to three and a half percent increase if we stay with electricity. You have foreseen that, if I understand this, the production and production of electricity capacity would be at 1.4, if I am not mistaken, at the annual level by 2010 and 2015. They even show that imports, net imports of electricity minus in all years, 2000, 2005, 2010 even minus, then 2020 or something else you have increased here, and you say 01% increase in net imports of electricity. There's a lot of disagreement here now. Where will we then come with our statistics, if we have actual consumption at about 25 to 3.5% per annum, and you predicted only 1.4% of the annual increase in production and production capacity and capacity with the energy programme. Explain to me how you imagined it. Do you really think we're going to save that much at all levels? In short, electricity is like I said. Please, if you can answer that. In my opinion, this document is really extensive, and it has too much ballast in it. Self-realisation, moratorium or control of the implementation of this national programme will also be extremely difficult or almost impossible. No one will have to answer for any decision. It is, however, the fact that those who will be most affected or suffer the consequences of the bad decisions that we will make today and in those days, based on energy policy, will be our consumers. You need to know, if you don't know where this has already been written, also famous economists have written that the Slovenian standard will be reduced by at least 30 to 50% on average over the next 3 to 5 years, if I don't think it's even more likely. So the luxury we have so much will be no longer available to many, but it will have to be extremely careful to save and weigh every toll he will have, or then we will have the euro, so that he can survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u237	Thank you very much. To your word, Mr. Bevek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u238	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The reason for my performance today, as well as tomorrow's, when we consider the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which is closely linked to the national energy programme, is the reopened and bile debate on the planning of the mega-Roman hydroelectric power plant in the Idrice Valley. The project was known in the past under the name "Hettrebuša", today in the amended version "Hekkuk", and in both cases it is an extremely large intervention into space. In the first case, it would sink almost 37 kilometres of Idrice Valley, floods would be 1,067 hectares of land, destroy 160 farms, move more than 700 people, and say goodbye to three villages forever. In fact, in recent times there has been a misunderstanding in this regard, as also acknowledged by the Minister of Mags. Janez Kopač, and in a letter to Mayor Tolmina, wrote that the guidelines for the preparation of a spatial plan in which the space for "He Kuk" was to be reserved came to the Municipality of Tolmin by mistake. Similar material was received by the Municipality of Idrija in August 2003. When I compared both documents, both the national energy programme and the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, I found quite a bit of superficiality and inadequacy, so I prepared an amendment to the updated proposal to the annex to Chapter 652 - Energy and the space where the map entitled "Energy Network Design" was published. This map is also part of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. This card is in both documents. However, the problem with this strategy is that, in several elements, the document in the Rapporteur, number 8 which we accept, does not match its explanation in Rapporteur No 8/1. It will be best to see that on the map published in the explanatory memorandum of the strategy in Rapporteur 8/1, on page 153, there is no word in the text of the strategy in Rapporteur 8 on the energy use of the river Idrice. Now, to my amendment or amendment to the parliamentary group, which the government has written down as pointless. With the amendment, I have proposed that all existing and planned energy facilities and installations listed in the national energy programme be shown and coordinated on the map. The Government also stated in its explanatory statement that as energy facilities, power plants which are not part of the networks are mainly considered to be not part of the network, so they are not part of this picture. Of course, the Government's explanation is without arguments. If I were to reverse the matter, the Government's explanation might be that it is essentially pointless. What, though, are plants other than an integral part of the energy network? Or maybe electricity comes into the power supply system from the moon. Power plants are still an integral part of the energy network. For example, in the spatial development strategy, the port of Koper can be written and the Krška nuclear power plant as part of the energy system cannot. The major problem for planners will also be the areas identified on this map as hydroelectric watercourses. If Soča between Tolmin and Solkan or Novo Gorica is not disputed, I wonder what happened to the Sava River. For hydropower plants on this river is reserved the entire watercourse from Jesenic to the Croatian border or the reservation of the entire Drava from the Austrian to Croatian borders. I wonder if in the municipality of Jesenice it is possible to use the Sava River and the area for hydropower purposes only. Therefore, municipal planners will have major difficulties in spatial planning if the formal legal acts that are the basis for planning are as superficially prepared as in this case, which I have just presented. The professional basis prepared by the Ministry is not legally binding. In addition, the same card in two documents bears a different name. The spatial strategy is called "Directions for the development of energy systems", and in the energy programme it is "The design of the energy network". Finally, I have another question for the Minister or State Secretary for Energy: Is it true that the government, although there is no legal basis for this, will grant a concession for the energy use of the Idrijca River by 1 May, and to whom? Such a decision would be very problematic, since recently the mayors of the municipality of Idria, Cerkno and Tolmin in Dolenja Trebusha decided to prepare a joint development programme for the Idrijce Valley. Of course, we also expect the active participation of a country that for decades has hampered the development of this valley, since this area from Lower Idrija to Mosta in Soča has been reserved for the construction of the Mega-Roman hydroelectric power plant Trebush. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u240	Nice greeting and thank you for saying so! This resolution on the national energy programme was, in fact, very much debate. We, too, as a national assembly, have used all the business possibilities to get the programme discussed as best as possible, to be presented to the public as best as possible and to be able to accept it in the best possible text at the final stage. I have personally participated in some of these discussions, and I am essentially expressing in this debate the surprise of the criticisms that have been made many times by those who have participated in the preparation of this energy programme. My colleague Gračner and I have counted as one of the active critics of the national energy programme, which he wrote that he participated in 21 studies and various documents based on this energy programme. Today, the arguments of this criticism are quite common ground for debate and criticism in the National Assembly. Personally, I believe that this national energy programme is a document that will answer a number of questions and lay the groundwork for a number of development options, particularly in the area of the development of renewable energy sources. Of course, there is nothing new, but I think that through this energy programme we will give impetus to better biomass use, to better wind energy use, to better geothermal energy use, to further exploit hydrological or water potentials in the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe it's a bad thing we don't have some high priority. However, it is also likely that some areas are under-explored at this point in time in order to be able to make firm decisions on which direction of use, particularly renewable energy sources, would give particular priority. I estimate that the use of the hydropower potential of Slovenian rivers, which is below 50% this instant, is one of the most important potential uses for electricity production, which we will also benefit from in Slovenia in the future. I therefore agree that the planning of hydro power plants in the Central Sava, as well as in Mura and perhaps some other watercourses in Slovenia, should be planned. I am sure that the construction of the lower-level chain, which is now in full activity, is one of the very serious energy projects that we have undertaken and which will have positive effects in several places or more in the future, both in the effects of greenhouse gas reductions and in the provision of commitments by the Republic of Slovenia in this area, then in the development of the lower Posavje in an infrastructure sense, as well as of course the contribution to improved energy supply in Slovenia. This direction would suggest continuing in Slovenia on all watercourses where both spatial and energy options are available. In my discussion, I would only touch on one dilemma which has already been raised today, with regard to the amendment by my colleague, Mr Branet Janca, who was accepted on the Infrastructure Committee and which has been assessed differently. This is because this energy programme in the updated text opens up the possibility of a dialogue of the Republic of Slovenia with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, in view of the possibilities that have been negotiated once before, but never used, or of building a new such energy facility in the neighbouring Republic on similar principles as the one built by the Krška nuclear power plant. This and this idea will probably be told by colleague Branko Janc, but I think this is one of the good bases, and it is good that we have written in the energy programme. Of course, the question is what will be the degree of possible negotiation between the two countries. With regard to the future fate of the NEK, and with regard to the continuation of operation, perhaps the increase, I think that the energy programme is an appropriate basis to ensure that decisions are made not later than 2012 as to whether the nuclear power plant will have an extended life span of such or different scales. By 2012, I expect that we will also check the appropriateness of the document, which we will accept and supplement today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr Jerovsk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The document, submitted under the name of the draft resolution on the national energy programme, shows that over the past 8 years, as it has been said, this document has been prepared, had many trainees employed in a sector which is now in another ministry, as it was before and as it should have been. This is shown in this document. However, the weakness is, I believe that there are a lot of capable, wise people among the interns who could do better at some point in time that these trainees did not have a suitable leader. It's a document that beats the government in the department. And it is not surprising, for four years ago, this area was transferred from the ministry, where it is logical, from the Ministry of Economics, where there is also some correlation between politicians in this sector, was transferred, as I said, due to the full financial engineering of the Ministry of Environment and Space. That is also why the energy programme has hanged. We had no energy policy and had no doctrinal strategic documents. Looks like we won't. Since we didn't have it, we didn't prepare it, we missed a lot of opportunities, we threw a lot of money through the window. Firstly, we have not survived in these years, which we could have endured in the sale and transport of electricity. The transition tycoons used the situation in the energy field, put a lot of money into their own pockets, and, last but not least, the cut-off of electricity or nuclear power with all the consequences, which the investigative commission has already identified and will certainly find responsible, has been carried out during this period. Instead of running a lot of money by smartly selling electricity and using transport routes, which was the problem of Western Italy at that time, these opportunities have not been taken advantage of. For this reason, I am not surprised that most of the things that Slovenia should have already achieved have been accomplished, have not been achieved and will not be achieved. And energy will be a big glass of economic development in the coming period. Because energy will be extremely expensive. It will also be expensive on this account, because during this period Slovenia has not carried out the technological development that it should have done because of the transit tycoons who took the money elsewhere, but should have followed the Kyoto Agreement. Politicians have signed, without responsibility, the provisions of the Kyoto Agreement on a reduction of 8%. Not all acceding countries in the European Union are aware of the consequences for the national economy. I have learned from the energy circles that already big problems or dark clouds are collapsing, because Slovenia, you also recognise here on several sides that CO2 emissions are increasing through the requirements or definitions you have signed and that this will, of course, be punished by Slovenia. Consequences, sanctions follow. You'll be buying emission rights. And that means that it's going to be significantly more expensive electricity because it wasn't working on technological development because the money went elsewhere. Look how it's gone. You're simplifying here, and it's right that we should do significantly more cogeneration. These are also directives of the European Union or are being prepared. Europe is working hard on this. Instead of having as much cogeneration as possible in Ljubljana as rationally as possible, because it is a constant loss of thermal energy and also of high consumption, these plants are made significantly more, energy has invested money in the purchase of the bank. Corruption buy, billions are gone. Instead of having cheaper heat and electricity, the whole of Slovenia co-financed it for more expensive and so on. That's what you need to get an answer for. What will be the sanctions under the Kyoto Agreement, which will surely affect us, how much more electricity we will pay for this in the next period, should the Minister give an answer and why everything has been so headlessly signed without any analysis. But probably documents were being prepared, just like this resolution. With regard to renewable energy sources, we will not achieve this here, which is written here, because we have done almost nothing in the meantime. In these documents or in this resolution, you say how we should achieve, say, on page 98, some expectations, the requirements that we should meet. You can see through technological development and new technical possibilities of energy. True, it is possible to achieve this. However, I ask who will do this, whether all technologies will be imported, entirely dependent, because it is during this decade that the negative attitude towards technical intelligence, the knowledge that has been accumulated, which has been superb, has reduced the number of students, the quality of students. Technical intelligence from energy mostly went elsewhere, to public administration and so on. I worked in energy in the industry. That potential is gone. This is not only your ministry's fault, it is primarily Minister Gaber's fault with his graduation, which discourages capable students from going in technical and natural directions. And here Slovenia is becoming a technological colony, all experts say, we are becoming a technological colony. In particular, we will become a technological colony in the field of energy. But it is also to blame that within the government he did not know how to tell the Minister of Education that with such an approach to graduation, to enroll in university, not perspective. Who's going to develop the new technologies you're listing here in this country? Those engineers who have chosen a technical course as a compulsion because the country's excellence in mass collective psychology must be registered either in law or in medicine or in economics. Otherwise something's wrong with him. That's what they think in high school. If he's so intelligent and doesn't sign up for something like that, then there's something wrong with him. And my fellow professors at these science and technology colleges say that they have poor material, that they have significantly lower quality students. Of course, they have to let them through, or they're tying that up. And these new technologies with their own knowledge will almost be gone. Dependence on imports [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And look, for renewable energy sources, when you also mention these power plants, I'm curious -- somewhere I've learned that there's going to be over-supply electricity, it's said, a central to achieve this top energy in an appropriate time, to have an advantage in Soča from the Drava power plant. [[...]] I'd like to know the reasons - I think it's right, but why you didn't write down why this priority is. For see, Maribor has already lost a lot by holding or by transferring the whole matter to Ljubljana. At the time, the minister said he would be in holding three times a week, and I wonder if he is always three times a week in holding; let him say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u243	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. I give the floor to the debate to Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials! Although energy supply also includes natural gas, liquid fuels, solid fuels and heat supply, in the debate I will limit myself to electricity, which is an important product of the Shale Valley. What good supply of energy for economic operators means to us becomes most evident when we face its lack. We know the experience of those who have experienced an electric eclipse in the past and if asked whether electricity supply can be left to the market alone, they would get a reliable negative response. The decision to fully free trade in energy also faces real obstacles, such as remote networks, which were not built for intensive trade, but mainly for energy exchange. Increasingly, in the professional public, the question arises as to who should trade in electricity and whether it would not be good to sell energy to those who can guarantee uninterrupted supply in a way that produces sufficient part of the electricity they are trading. It is also important to note the need for a new investment cycle in production and transmission capacities. Electricity needs are increasing year after year and are higher than forecasts in recent years. In 2003, electricity consumption growth was around 4.5% and this year's estimate was 3.1%. At the same time, the Association for Energy at the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia notes that a time ago it was considered that the main obstacle to decisions on new projects was the economy, as the profitability of new projects could not be offset by the price of energy surpluses. Today it is becoming the biggest problem to place energy facilities in space. The time needed to obtain building permits is considerably too long and requires timely planning. Of course, further decision-making on which energy facilities and where they will stand must also be heard by environmentalists, as it will be necessary to find a compromise that will provide us with sufficient energy, our own, our own, our own, and at the same time interventions into a space that will ensure the prudent and quality use of space, which unfortunately we do not have in our country in abundance. This should take into account the existing facilities and their environmental burdens. Slovenia ratified the Kyoto Protocol in July 2002 which committed 8% of greenhouse gas emission reductions in the first target period, from 2008 to 2012, based on the baseline year 1986. It is commendable that Slovenian thermal power plants have achieved their share of their tasks in achieving the objectives set by the Kyoto Protocol commitment of 8.98 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The objective of ensuring 75% of electricity through domestic production in practice means that replacing the use of domestic coal with imports will undermine this envisaged ratio of 25:75. The example of last year, which can be described as an extremely dry year, shows us that the Šostanj thermal power plant, using coal from Velenje coal, was the only domestic strategic reserve for reliable and quality electricity supply. The applicant also notes that the estimates of the world primary energy reserves show that these are very limited and, apart from coal, are not sufficient for the normal supply of global needs by the end of the 21st century. In Slovenia, the stocks of lignite produced in the Shaleska Valley are estimated at 168 million tonnes and are now and in the future only intended for the Šoštanj thermal power plant for electricity and heat generation. During the past period, we built smoke gas desulphurizers and nitrogen oxides reduction. The location of TES will also allow replacement units to be built after 2008 when the older units cease to operate. The resolution also shows that the Ministry also includes an increase in the power and efficiency of the TES5 and TES 4, with natural gas, among potential energy facilities. At the same time, it is ensured that the cost of underground mining is hard to obtain at prices of foreign coal. Nevertheless, domestic production of lignite will be maintained in order to ensure self-sufficiency. However, it will be a little more difficult to achieve a reference price for coal by lowering the production costs in the coal mine. Finally, let me say that I will propose a resolution on the complementary content of the national energy programme by supporting it, because, according to my assessment, it has taken into account or taken into account several times the rule that the most expensive energy is not enough at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u245	Thank you very much. To the word of the Lord the Sušnik, because those who were written before are not present in the Hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you very much. A respected council, a respected minister! This national programme places considerable emphasis on renewable energy sources. However, I wonder if the ambitions of using the renewable energy sources enshrined in this programme are ambitious enough to make up for the backlog of our country in this area with other comparable countries. From all the material I have here, I have been able to see that the goal is to increase heat supply to 25% by 2010, which represents, according to 2000, an increase of 4 penta joules, of which 3.1 penta joules for biomass, which is 15 times less than similar plans in neighbouring Austria. Austria plans to raise the energy used from biomass for 60 joules during this decade, of which it is wastes on solid biomass, wood cuttings in the form of solid biomass 45 pent joules. Given the situation that we all know, given the fact that Austria is at a high level, as regards the use of renewable energy sources, the 500 large systems and thousands of smaller ones, it seems to me that our ambition and our plan in this area are small, insufficient and not ambitious enough to make up for this backlog to at least approximate the neighbouring country, which is in all respects comparable to the Republic of Slovenia, so is the potential of wood biomass, which is conditioned by the area covered by the forest. 50 larger boilers, 3-5 remote systems, 1500 boilers in the household, this is the goal set out in this programme. It seems to me that this is not what it should be, and that you have been producers here too ambitious, and that the objectives set are not what you would expect to be included in this programme. In addition, I am disturbed by another fact that this is clearly due to the treatment, namely the fact that it is written in section 6.1.7 where the use of wood biomass is limited in some way, namely that the use of wood biomass which is not suitable for industrial production will be promoted in particular. I think that the committee here has succumbed to pressure from the woodworking industry and that this was a mistake, because the authors, I'll say, coming from Koroška, got caught in their own loop, when they were citing information about how many wood biomass they use to produce squirrels. I think it's been 180,000 cubic metres a year. At the same time, they state that 80,000 cubic metres are imported from the neighbouring Republic of Austria, where the level of use of wood biomass is at an inappropriately higher level than that of us. I think there's something wrong with that. This is one article that is restrictive. In particular, I find it inappropriate, and I can also see some pitfalls in this regard, that this last sentence of this paragraph, which speaks of the fact that, in implementing incentives for the use of wood biomass for energy purposes, the Government is obliged to make sure that the competitive ability of other users of wood biomass is not significantly compromised. This probably does not work and does not go in the direction of promoting the use of wood biomass in the future. However, I think it is a good provision in the chapter, which says that it is necessary to adopt a regulation on mandatory analysis of the use of biomass in remote heating systems that will be built in the future or will be renewed. This, I think, could lead to greater use of biomass, which could have a pervasive positive impact on the creation of new jobs and rural development. There's something else I'd like to say. I think it'll only take a few seconds. In relation to severe hydrological conditions and the groundwater-related problem, I think we should coordinate energy activities on the use of water resources and this environmental one, in particular in terms of the establishment of one regime on our watercourses, which has in the past been linked to the construction of dams and the associated use of water energy. I estimate that the exploitation of the potential described in this water potential programme, namely 50%, is also not entirely real. I think there's more to be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Komljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the resolution can be viewed differently. I will personally look into it especially for those points that are important and developmental for our further work in this area. I think it is very important for the country, I do not think it is necessary to compare with the bad, but it is good to be the best in this society in this area. We also have these options, given that we are engaged, especially at this time when we are entering or joining Europe, it is also right to act this way. I do not see, in particular, the nature-protection aspect, but also the environmental aspect, which is very, very much possible from an environmental point of view, and the economic aspect and, of course, the aspect of energy efficiency. These are chapters that are vital and are linked. Above all, I think it's a big issue of awareness. That's about as close as the trash. As long as we throw paper on the floor, it's not order. Here, in fact, we work in the same way with energy, you could say "we mess with it sometimes". And that's a matter of awareness. That is why, of course, something will have to be done in this area. If I set the example in garbage, when we settle this area, unfortunately all the garbage we collect, I think of municipal waste, I apologize, they're made mostly of oil and other fuels. If we bury it, it burns for years and years too, this heat goes to waste, if I may say so. But if we smoke this in modern devices, and we take energy from it and we reduce this waste for that part of the benefit, let it be 30%, 40%, 50%, I don't know. That's the point. Today, technology has progressed so highly that it is not meaningful to talk about toxins, dioxins and so on, because these incinerators are in the middle of Vienna. Berlin has four consequences. Technology should sometimes also be believed, these are no longer resorts, open fires, but are controlled and used by technology to achieve these effects as well. I would start in this area in our forests, and I would just like to say, everyone knows that Slovenia already has one of the richest forests in Europe. Of course, in Europe, it is not possible to compare either Spain or Portugal, but forests are few in Europe as we have them. We have the highest increase, the highest quality wood. We don't realize this wealth because it's too close and because it's too much and we've always been used to it. So this is an important raw material for our manufacturing industry, for the wood industry and for the record industry, which is in an unenviable position in some way. It is also true that at present wood has no good price. It's also true that we don't cut the annual time available. However, all of this is likely to be addressed by such or other interventions to the economy. I already said we don't appreciate enough of our forests because we're used to them being what they are. But if you were looking elsewhere where this is a problem - so I would say you don't have to compare yourself with others, even Sweden, not because they have different forests and different wood. These comparisons are sometimes harmful. I would say that we should compare ourselves with those who are better, with those who are worse, and there is no need for these comparisons. And when we have enough wood in the woods, then we can talk about the remains. And here I'm going to slowly relate to a problem that I want to talk to you about. The forest remains are very, very different, the question of where they come from. Do they originate in the forest - and these often also remain in the forest and personally I am sure that it will be very difficult to get many more of them out of the forest now, because of the way we manage in the forest. This is certainly the best way. There is probably no price, but also foresters think that this must remain in the forest, that it be manure as a fertilizer for future forest growth. But what we bring out of the forest is, of course, wood remains already in the basic processing itself, when this wood is still raw and has high moisture, above 20% relative moisture. And most of these remains are the best raw material for the production of plates, whether it's woodboards or cverboards. It is therefore necessary and desirable for the industry to develop in this area, which will process it, to add value to this product and thus increase economic growth or domestic gross product, if you want to, of course, employ people and offer domestic industry, such as furniture industry, including raw materials for further processing. Since Koroška was mentioned earlier, I must say that I am also pleased, on the other hand, that the four amendments were given to the committee's support and that they are built-in - and I also think that they are understood by the Ministry differently than at the outset - that they have in fact given the opportunity in some way that this panel industry I have been talking about can also be launched into the goals of the investments it wants. Look, this moment is possible to increase this production to 300,000 cubic cubes of invert panels only on our location. Why? Koroška is extremely rich with wood, 360,000 cubic metres has an annual floor on actually poor 5% of Slovenia's surface. This, of course, also makes the wood industry as much developed in this area as it gives jobs a profit. This factory, if I speak of it now, has been told many times about it, I do not work for it, nor am I lobbyist for this factory, it has completely repaired this factory, it has invested only EUR 5 million in the last three years because it is preparing for an increased industry. Technology that would thus increase the use of wood, which brings in a factory for the production of invert plates, requires such a quantity of 300,000 cubic metres, otherwise this technology is not exploited. However, this will, of course, produce many more panels from the raw materials cubicle, so it will significantly reduce energy consumption per unit of product, so of course it will significantly increase gross domestic product and increase profits, which is in fact all that we expect. The main objective, probably these resolutions, when all these matters are addressed in a parallel and correct manner, will, of course, be to reduce energy consumption per unit of product. That's probably the goal that brings the most. Look, in our forests, it's about 4.6 million cubic meters a year, whether we cut it or not, it doesn't matter, it stays in the woods, it doesn't fall and it'll cut itself once. I've done general calculations, up to a million cubic feet of wood leftovers I've talked about before. It's sawdust, chopsticks, all that's a little bit more than 20% moisture, and that's the first-class raw material to make plates. So there's a lot of these leftovers. Then there's at least half a million more technical wood. So it's more a question of logistics, where it's coming from and how to figure it out, how to sort it out. Although I know that farmers take the sawdust for the stele, even though some saws that have a dryer in their composition use this raw material to burn these boilers, which give heat energy to dry this wood. That's right. I don't think that's right. Of course, there are still a lot of raw materials left for the market, and we throw a lot of energy away from the bark that many people today drive into different caves and water with wood. Only the skull is 400,000 cubic meters, 10% of the mass of wood. That is why I think that it is available for everyone, even for the production of green electricity, that I am not talking about those wood residues that originate in the production of the wood industry itself. And that's what's below 10% of the moisture, and it's not even for wood plate production. Raw materials are not suitable for the production of plates. These raw materials are very large. If I just say sawn wood, 50% of the sawn wood goes to zero in production, it's like the rest. It's such a bad use. And, of course, the wood industry has 70 percent of all energy cogenerations in its yard, 70% of all energy production in its own backyard from technological residues, waste, this is mostly dust, clouds and sawdust. And this energy is not measured, I mean, record of these amounts of energy, this balance is not there. And it will probably have to be done to have an overview of all the things that arise and how much it costs. However, there are still a lot of these dry wood residues on the market, and I think it is also likely that after these remains, as far as those units want to produce green energy are concerned, the only question is the organisation and logistics of this market. So, as I said before, 70% are consumed in a circle and only 30% can represent oil, electricity and gas. This is quite typical of the whole wood industry. These amendments, which are now incorporated into the resolution, allow everyone on the market to be equal. With this no ban, it is not said that someone should not smoke sawdust, that someone should not smoke chopsticks, that someone should not burn limbs, only that someone has no better opportunity to pay that raw material on the market in some way as a single criterion available. It is also true that today, even at this moment, some of these raw materials are imported, for example, if we are talking about squirrels that I know better, where 85% of all raw materials are sawdust, chopjacks and other remains of sawn wood. Why is that? Because there is a lot of energy to be invested in the production of yrea. And if you get sawdust and already crushed wood, then significantly less energy needs to be invested for this production. In fact, it is now in this case to take account of this industry, it has also gained its place in the resolution, it will not be deprived and it will be able to succeed. And I now expect, on the basis of these chapters, these four amendments, especially the two, which are very important here, so that this squirrel will go into this bold investment and thus contribute, increase the number of jobs, increase production, thereby gross domestic product and also profit, all that we expect. I would like to point out once again that I am actually satisfied and look more at positive chapters, at those chapters that need to be developed, there is definitely a lot more to be done, but without this school, there is no way without this awareness that the general public will also be made aware of as well as municipal waste. Sounds like the same story to me. They don't even know about it yet. They don't keep track of it. I think that the resolution will also contribute slowly to this and everything else that will be in this resolution. It's not just money, I'm also sure that this money that's going to be meant for incentives, one or the other, or whether it's going to be structures, of course, technology is very important in this, in burning, you can't just throw everything into one boiler, I think these big units need a certain preparation of this raw material, and all of this needs to be carefully thought out. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another error in the chapter that has been entered into this text, and I would like to ask if you can correct it editorially. In Chapter 6.1.7 of the OC Heat, at the end of the third paragraph, the last line should read "pete" instead of "pete" because it does not crease the palette but it is pellets. If I repeat the pills, pellets, it's a special form of wood fire, so I'd like you to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u249	Thank you for your discussion. Janko Weber gets a word for his discussion. [[No, no, ……]] Branko Janc. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. The national energy programme shall set long-term development objectives for energy supply, investment in public infrastructure, incentives for investment in renewable energy sources and efficient energy use, the use of technologies for fuel generation and energy production, and the envisaged volume of investments. At least that's how the energy law applies. With the amendments adopted by the Committee, the proposal for a national energy programme sets out more precisely the content laid down by the law. I am of the opinion that, despite the opposite views, the national energy programme can be adopted, taking into account all the directives adopted so far by the European Union, taking into account other guidelines that are directly or indirectly linked to the objective of improving energy management, both technologically, economically and environmentally. The warning of NGOs, as well as of other societies, as well as the professional public, which was particularly highlighted in the public presentation of opinions on the non-acceptability of the national energy programme, casts doubt on the individual. I am also of the opinion that the national energy programme could be better. However, I am wondering whether the operational implementation of energy policy could be better as well. The primary energy balance shows that projections for the next 5, 10, 15 years provide for measures to implement the Kyoto Protocol objectives. The share of renewable energy sources is increasing and is projected to exceed 12% by 2010. Other measures are also aimed at reducing environmental burdens. However, the issue of energy intensity and its excessive import energy dependence remains an open issue. In the NEP, the projected increase in electricity consumption is underestimated in my projection. 1.5% annual growth by 2015, I don't think it will provide reliable supply to Slovenia, and we can soon experience a California eclipse. With the liberalisation of the energy market, the country becomes an important player in the energy market, which is poor in terms of the security of Slovenia's energy supply. Dear colleagues, already in the discussion of my predecessors, especially Branka Kelemina and Jožet Tanka, a question was raised directly and also the dilemma of the reasonableness of the adopted amendment on the infrastructure committee that I myself proposed, and with which I proposed the joint construction of the nuclear power plant in Croatia by 2015, based on the principles and principles applicable to the construction of the operation of the Krško nuclear power plant. In order to know the whole issue of the use of nuclear technology in energy needs, of course, it is necessary to know that the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia have accepted and signed, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic Executive Council, Prime Minister Stana Kavčič, an agreement. This was signed in 1970 on the joint construction of two nuclear power plants. The agreement in the third paragraph states the following: "The Republics agree that the capacity of the first joint nuclear power plant will be approximately 600 megawatts. Its location will be in Slovenia, which is expected in the area of Krske, if this location is confirmed for more detailed research and expert expertise. "The Republics agree that in the construction of the nuclear power plant in the territory of Slovenia [[or if the circumstances so require, even earlier]] , under the principles and conditions laid down by this Agreement, the second joint nuclear power plant in the territory of Croatia shall be built." [[End of quote.]] Therefore, the first paragraph of point 3 of this Agreement has consistently fulfilled Slovenia in all the provisions of the Agreement. Of course, other contractual relations were adopted for the construction of the first nuclear power plant in Krk. This agreement should be built by 1979, was built in 1981, and is now in operation for 22 years. Therefore, the second paragraph of this Agreement remains an open question, where it refers to another nuclear power plant to be built in Croatia. During this time, Slovenia has also prepared an interstate agreement with Croatia on the regulation of status and other legal relations for the Krška nuclear power plant [[adopted one year ago in the National Assembly]] which deals with all open issues, at least we think about the operation of the Krško nuclear power plant, its exploitation and decommissioning, and the storage of nuclear waste. I myself believe that if this agreement and the entire operation of a nuclear power plant in Krk are based on the correct interaction between the two countries, I see no reason why the same principles should not apply to another nuclear power plant, which would be built together in the same shares in Croatia. And if I didn't sell out too much on this subject, I might just say the following. If we build a joint nuclear power plant in Croatia, Slovenia will provide a reliable and long-term stable source of electricity supply [[We can probably talk at least about the year 2100]] . Slovenia is likely to provide, at least after the experience of the Krka nuclear power plant, a cheap, relatively competitive energy supply and Slovenia can be transferred from a net importer to a net electricity exporter. Slovenia does not further burden the environment with any of the elements arising from the Kyoto Protocol, and probably in this way Slovenia also solves in the long term all open issues concerning the participation of both countries in a joint project on the use of nuclear technology. So much for the behavior of others about this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u251	Thank you, Comrade Branko Janc. Will colleague Silva Montenegro have a word to discuss? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. You want a word with Granner? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. When I listened carefully to all the debaters, I wrote down some thoughts here, and I will also try to give some answers that are intertwined with my own perspective. First of all, I would like to point out that this national energy programme is not a kind of, I will say, a final document that will obliterate any development for the whole future, but this is a long-term use strategy or guidance on how to develop the energy activity itself in the Republic of Slovenia during a transitional period. It is clear that many predictions will later prove that they will have to change for other reasons, not only because of the situation in Slovenia. However, it is important in this document that this document opens up opportunities, indicates some options and takes into account that technologies both in the environmental field and in the energy field on a day-to-day basis meet that certain countries could say that energy giants invest a lot of money in development, in new technologies, in addressing the shortcomings of certain energy consumers, as there were many words around coal before. Unfortunately, we could say or conclude that Slovenia is energy dependent, that over 50% of the eligible energy sources we need to import these needs that we have today. We just can't help each other here. It is true that coal is one of the rare domestic resources, which also has on a global scale, which has been announced somewhere for about 200 years, while gas, oil and others have a significantly shorter potential for exploitation. These different countries also invest a lot of resources to eliminate the only lack of coal, which is carbon dioxide generated by combustion. As I said before, I come from the Sava region myself, it is said from the region where we witnessed the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine as a result of the referendum will, namely 15% of those who went to the referendum in January 1999 and it also turned out that referendums and referendum decisions cannot and should not affect the rights of the minority. Thus, this energy dependence of Slovenia, the limited domestic resources and, on the other hand, the planned annual growth of 1.5% of electricity by 2015 certainly require some deeper reflection on what we will do. And as long as we live in a world where the development of a country is measured in a gross domestic product, and where all countries act after competing with each other, so long will Slovenia be caught in this game and we will have to produce electricity from somewhere. In fact, one of the colleagues spoke earlier about co-incineration of biomass and coal in the Trbovlje thermal power plant and co-incineration of waste, since this is a dangerous, burdensome and environmentally harmful approach. I could say that this was probably related to that project that we have already presented there, the energy valleys, but let me mention in particular this here and point out that this is one of the development options that will or will not prove to be acceptable in the future. The co-incineration of biomass and coal is certainly in such situations as we are, certainly, extremely welcome and, of course, environmentally friendly. Then there were also many criticisms about this document, whether it is properly prepared or not, or whether it is in conformity with Article 13 of the Energy Law. All of these discussions, and the two public debates and discussion at three meetings of the parent body, have shown that there were really no significant comments on this proposal. Let me mention just one point, namely, an indication of the scope that was given, namely two models, the American model and the model from Great Britain, were exposed here. The American model is supposed to be written on 15 pages and British on 100 pages. All of this proves that each country has its own approach in the field of energy, it is said that each country is guided by its own origins, including its own natural resources, and that there are no precise guidelines and some balancing instruments to prepare these documents. These documents are prepared according to the needs of the country and I believe that the document is properly prepared as a strategic document and also as a long-term programme. But most of all, I was really disturbed by the criticism, which is the underestimating criticism that this Slovenian national energy programme is worse than Albanian. But most of all, it bothered me that this came from Dr. Miha Tomšić's mouth, which we could find on the other hand, among the co-authors of the 11 studies that were used in this energy programme. All these observations that have been made, and all the criticisms have somehow proved that they can be argued that somewhere they do not hold, that in fact there may be other goals, other purposes, but these two public debates and three hearings have certainly proved and have shown that in Slovenia we are able to make a quality document and that is also the case with us, it is quite different. Anyone who has seen the original text and the current text can see that there are changes in the content and structure of the composition. I will be absolutely pleased to support this national and energy programme, but it is true that we are all aware that the energy situation will change in the future, that energy is becoming one of the world's most important activities, that it is, in fact, history and even war in the future, so that we will certainly witness a change in such a document, as this document represents a strategy. As I said, I will be very happy to support this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u253	There's no replica, you weren't personally named. Well, that's not the reason for the replica. I really won't. But I will give the floor to the Government to answer these questions from the debate of Members and Members so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Probably all the questions and arguments raised, many of them were unrealistic, I won't be able to answer them, but I will try some. First, a few words concerning the Kyoto Protocol and greenhouse gas emissions. It should be borne in mind that Slovenian energy has already reduced emissions by about 20% from 1986 to today. By 2008-2012, Slovenia will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an additional 8% depending on the starting year by the most energy-intensive period. The emissions of greenhouse gases were said to be unknown at all. That can only be said by someone who's started dealing with it, so to speak. Emissions of greenhouse gases are available to anyone who wants to do so on the Internet for every major issue in Slovenia. The Kyoto Protocol is already well known in this national energy programme. The full focus on renewable energy, in promoting this, in new investments, of course, follows what is different from the Kyoto Protocol guidelines. Not only is this followed by a national energy programme, but our policy has been followed for the past few years. For example, in 2002, we adopted a regulation on the promotion of renewable energy sources that function effectively. I said before, 4.2 billion tolars per year can be encouraged to do so. All new investments, the chain on the lower Sava, the envisaged replacement of some less efficient plants in Šostjanje, even in Trbów will have to be done equally, including the replacement of energy. All of this is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, either by increasing efficiency or by using better energy. A few words were about wind, biomass, all of which, of course, finds its place in the national energy programme and which we strongly encourage. The national energy programme is a comprehensive document. It's got a whole bunch of attachments. He was born long and in serious circles. That is why it pains me, of course, the observation that was again said here today that it was a bad program - said Dr Miha Tomšič, who, as Member Gračner said, worked intensively in writing this. I am most pleased, however, that two weeks ago we received the official position of the Slovenian Academy of Arts, which supported the national energy programme as suitable for treatment and reception. That's how I got my academic confirmation that the program's fine. It is clear that there was no public debate. Of course, that's absolutely not true. The public debate has been held since 2000. Even after the programme was drawn up in the form of a draft, we had a public hearing, then we accepted it in government, then went to Parliament, and Parliament made a public presentation of opinions. In short, public treatment was as much as anyone wanted it. There was some debate about the energy-consuming industry. That's right. Slovenia has an energy intensive industry because it has ironworks because it has a Talum because it has a Nitrogen Plant Ruše because it has some other large consumers, including Vipap Videm Krško is a great consumer, and it is a swollen state. We could theoretically close the Talum and suddenly be more energy efficient at the state level, or at least two or three ironworks, and then we would be on the average of the European Union. But of course, that's no way to solve problems. That is why it is the task of energy policy to try to push this poor assumption for our energy policy, to try to do whatever it takes to give electricity to this industry at competitive prices, so that it can compete with production abroad and that, with appropriate imports, with a mix of domestic resources and other measures, we will somehow reverse this situation, which we intend to intensively improve in the coming years. The focus of the national energy programme is on an intense reduction in energy intensity. Someone has also said before that if the assumptions here are wrong, electricity consumption is growing faster than the national energy programme. That's not true. The latest data, February 2004 to February 2003, showed that the increase in consumption was 1.1%. This is less than the national energy programme. Indeed, we were faced with a great leap from 2001 to 2002 and 2003. That's right. But the national energy programme does not talk about this time, but it does focus on the future. There's been some talk about why we're going to thermal facilities, why it counts so much on gas and coal, why not on hydro anymore. In terms of hydropower potential, it must be said that we do not actually have it anymore. We've got a few more Save, maybe the upper flow of Moore, and that's it. There's no other way. That is why, of course, we need to focus on thermal energy facilities. It is also unfair for hydropower plants to compare their price to the price of thermal energy facilities. The price of fuel at hydropower plants is thus free of charge, because the weather does its own work and the altitude difference of its own. However, the fact is that there is a great deal to be invested in hydropower facilities in the beginning and that this is then amortised over 30 years. Then there's no more. And from there, this energy is practically free. Fuel should be paid all the time in the case of thermal energy facilities. Initial investments, however, are smaller. But what is more important for the stability of supply, we still need thermal energy facilities, because if we look at the experience of dry years, it is not every year as wet as it shows this year, then of course we need to know that we can be rescued in such cases only by thermal energy objects. Slovenia's happiness is that our predecessors had so many wise decisions, I don't know if it was thought out or if it's just applied that we have a third of production in a nuclear power plant, a third of hydro power plants, a third of it, I speak very much at around and in thermo-power plants. And that's why no situation can surprise us. When the palavian year is a pleasant year, we have a lot - in short, more thermal power plants stand when we have a dry year than last year, and half of Slovenian energy will hang at the Šostanj thermal power plant. In short, investing in thermal energy facilities is due to their flexibility, because after all we do not have large hydroaccumulations in Slovenia, because we also have nowhere to put them in our space, essential and necessary. Someone asked why the Sheep gave priority to the Koziak hydroelectric power plant. The documentation for the Sheep is much more prepared, and the project is essential in a more mature phase. Otherwise, we're both planning on a long run. But if someone wants to speed up the other one and invest there, of course, he is welcome. Our problem is that the real energy investors aren't really there, they're all looking for big profits. However, in energy it takes a lot of investment, for profits that do not know how big they are, and for such investment, of course, we first get an investor who is state-owned because we order him to invest. Otherwise, we like to see private investors. Mr Sušnik asked why we anticipate such a small increase in wood biomass consumption. It is true that we are expecting a small increase, but it should be borne in mind that this instant benefit in burning existing quantities of biomass is extremely poor, that most boilers need to be replaced in private households where they burn on wood, that even in the industry where wood is used as fuel, most boilers need to be replaced because the benefits are extremely poor. Once the benefits are significantly increased in these same locations in newer ovens, of course, much less biomass will be consumed at the same locations, and of course we expect it to be used in many new locations. In short, our goal is not to burn as much biomass as possible, but to have as much heat produced as possible. The second debate said that the added value in biomass production, for example, was significantly higher and that it was therefore worth more. Our studies speak differently. In the case of cogeneration, I am not saying if we were to burn biomass only for electricity production, but in cogeneration, the added value for biomass burning is significantly higher than in the wood processing industry, and the contribution to gross domestic product is significantly higher than in the wood production industry. You need to be aware of that whether someone likes it or not. Just a little bit more about the amendments. They're in, I think the four amendments are in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u255	Minister, we will now move on to the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u256	Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u257	In doing so, I would like to conclude a general debate on the motion for a resolution by Members and Members. We are moving on to a debate on the amendments to be led on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.3.2004 and you have an additional amendment to Chapter 8, Sub-Chapter 8.4, indicators for the implementation of energy policy. Excuse me! The fourth amendment of the review of 24.3.2004 was amended by this additional material. The amendment to point 6.2 is irrelevant because this chapter has not been amended. We are moving on to the amendment to Chapter 6 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I'm putting this amendment to the debate. Who wants to discuss it? There's a colleague of mine, Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment. We are aware that if we are to achieve the effects on renewable energy proposed by this resolution, then it is imperative to increase the funding for subsidisation in this area. I am very sorry, however, that the amendments adopted by Mr Komljanec, which somehow share wood biomass for energy use and wood biomass for industrial processing, have been adopted. I believe that such a definition is even inconsistent with the definition of biomass in the umbrella European document, which deals in more detail with renewable energy sources, and that such division will affect the market in wood biomass; it will do more harm than the envisaged subsidies in this area or, as a result of such division, will not have the effect envisaged by this resolution. I do not know why this was accepted by the Infrastructure Committee or why the government did not object to such a determination in this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u260	Thank you. Look, this amendment is a little unusual. The figure of 6 billion 970 million is in this table the sum of all the numbers before that. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is now proposing that this sum should change to 14 billion. Then we should probably also be amending some of the preceding items, or someone will accuse us of not being able to count, the national assembly as a whole. Thus, we cannot absolutely support this amendment because it would mean an accounting nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u261	Thank you. Also Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u262	This is how I would say that the National Assembly still has the possibility of a third reading harmonisation amendment. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] if accepted, then this shall be harmonised. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u263	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on the amendment to Chapter 6. We are moving on to Chapter 7.2.3 where an amendment has been tabled by four parliamentary groups, the LDS Club, the United Kingdom, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Anybody want a word here? Nobody. I conclude the debate under Chapter 7.2.3. We move on to chapter, to this amended chapter 8.4. Anybody want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u264	Thank you. We oppose this amendment. What I would say is that if this amendment is adopted, then please reject the national energy programme as a whole. For, of course, this amendment means not only grading all the work that has been invested in the preparation of this document, but also means an essential different policy that I think cannot produce any results, but if anyone imagines that this way can be done with a programme and policy, then, of course, he is trying to count apples and pears, which is theoretically impossible. In short, I would like to stress in particular how we do not support this amendment. If you happen to be accepted, then I'm asking you to reject the entire program.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u265	Thank you, Minister, for that position. Anyone else want a debate? Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u266	I would have joined the Minister's position on this amendment myself. The attempt for a similar amendment was already on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment when we discussed the national energy programme in the second reading. Indeed, this amendment fully devalues the effort to prepare a national energy programme, that is, before we accept it, we are already adopting a practical starting point for a new energy programme to be prepared by the government until the end. In fact, it is a mockery of the seriousness of this national council if such an amendment were accepted. That's why we're against him in LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u267	Thank you. I don't see any more desire for a debate. I conclude the discussion on Chapter 8.4, of the Annex to the Design of the Energy Network to Chapter 6.5.2. The amendment of the United Nations Group is tabled. Only Bevk has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment states that in the cartographic presentation of the design of the energy network, as stated here, we would harmonise and display all existing and planned energy facilities and installations listed in the national energy programme. So the government has written down that it opposes this amendment. In your explanation, you say that the amendment makes no sense because the picture shows the design of energy networks, where only individual corridors are defined, not the exact course of individual lines. Then you say that as energy objects are thought mainly of as power plants which are not part of the networks, so they are not part of this picture. I don't think that's a good reason. If you are opposed to this amendment, you should write this argument differently, because power plants or hydroelectric plants are an integral part of the network. Because where does electricity come from, if not from where it's produced, and then this distribution goes on. Thus, this explanation does not stand and is not such that we can actually vote against this amendment. Actually, there's another problem. This map is published in the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia. And there's a different name for that card. But it's exactly the same. There, the strategy states that this map is a guidance map for the development of energy systems. In the national energy programme you name the Energy Network Design. On this map is, of course, the design of the energy network, besides pipelines, mentioned here are the watercourses reserved for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, then there is the design of the pipeline network, the design of the pipeline network, so it is also necessary to fix the address of this map here. There's another problem. In fact, I said earlier in the discussion that, say, as a watercourse for hydropower plants on this map, the river Sava from Jesenic is marked all the way to the Croatian border. Or the Drava River from Austria to the Croatian border. Only the Wall is partially marked and not whole, and also Sava, pardon, Soča. I think that this should be more precisely determined, because local planners will therefore have a major planning problem. However, I would ask the Minister or the Secretary of State to answer my question at the time of this amendment on concessions not on the Idrijca River, as it was announced in the media that the government would grant a concession to Idrijka by 1 May this year. I will also continue the policy tomorrow when I talk about the spatial development strategy, because in this spatial development where a map of the development of energy infrastructure is published in explanation, which is much more accurate but very ill-readable, and even this large facility on the Idrijca River is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u269	Thank you, colleague Bevk, because the issue of concession is not the subject of this amendment and this law. But I'd like to give my word to the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The power grid is a network. These aren't individual energy objects. I'm talking about production facilities. The national energy programme discusses what the state must do. And we will finance the transmission network - this is a map one below 750,000; or we should ask ourselves to present it in more detail and that it is also a distribution network, although of course it would be a little funny to draw, I don't know, every transformer in every Slovenian city, but still. The task of the state under energy law is to direct or care for what is in the country's domain, and these are, of course, energy networks. Individual production facilities, I'm inventing, a thermal power plant - here somewhere in the text is referred to as the potential possibility of a thermoelectric power plant, I'm going to extend a little, I'm sorry, to the gas in Kidrichev, and somewhere else mentioned as a possible thermal power plant in Lendava, for example, because we don't know whether or not it's going to be an investor or not; or if a national location plan is to be adopted or a comprehensive environmental impact assessment shows that it can't be accepted. We can't prejudge that. This is not a 1985 social plan. [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] So, of course, we are opposed to drawing individual objects here. [[...]] Once again, this is not a spatial plan, and this is the 1986 strategy that we are now adopting is more general. And as far as precision is concerned. What do you say, you do it more precisely on Savi? We still don't know, say, this instant we're drawing the position of the Krška hydroelectric power plant, we're already preparing a spatial act, but we don't know where the Brežice hydroelectric power plant is going to be, we don't know where the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is going to be. Dol hydroelectric power plant near Ljubljana - maybe it will, maybe it won't. Now it appears that we will have to announce Natura 2000 in that part of the Sava due to the presence of the sultan. If we draw it here or if we don't draw it, it's completely pointless -- it probably won't be because of that. Or, on the other hand, you say in your amendment, which is more of a conclusion, enter everything that is expressed in the word, where in this card - scream. For example, right now we have an initiative from Anhove to build a smaller gas thermal power plant at Salonita Anhovo's location because they have gas pipeline capacity. Maybe it will happen, and then someone will wonder: yes, because it's not drawn in this plan. Where is the basis for something like this? That would have come out of it. I understand that you would like it to say in one place that there is no Kuk hydropower plant, but if this amendment of yours is adopted, I hope it will not, then of course it is no guarantee that it will not, because the guarantee that it will not be, is in a document called a spatial development strategy, not in a national energy programme, because it is not a spatial document, I would like to emphasise that. Therefore, it seems to me that the map of energy networks, such as the scale 1:750,000, is the only one appropriate, but it is not appropriate to draw in-point individual energy objects, because many of us will let go, forget. What about then? Will we have to go back to Parliament and change this map? Many of those whom we will draw may remain unrealized forever in their desire to be. That's why I find it inappropriate to accept such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u271	Thank you very much. My friend just Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, first of all, the concession is somehow related to this amendment, even though Mr Minister answered me. I hope it will be for me tomorrow, because here, too, there are marked watercourses intended for hydroelectric power plants. Given that, of course, the government is still rejecting this amendment and that the things actually being written are very schematic, and this will be one of the components of the planning documents, it would be even better if these maps were not in this national energy programme at all, as it was not in the proposal of the national energy programme itself, and only the Committee included it in this complementary proposal. That's why I don't think it would be wrong if we didn't actually have this map here, because I think this map is going to cause a lot of gray hair. Unfortunately, now this map cannot be deleted from this national energy programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u273	Comrade Bevk, you can change the amendment by the end of the debate, because we still have some time in common. I'd better clear up another matter, and I'll give you another word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. A bull from your mouth into God's ears. I'm not happy that this card is in here. The Law Service considered that it should be attached if this is called a national energy programme, and then we pushed in the form of an amendment to the Committee a whole series of tables and anything else, as well as this map. If you change your amendment to delete this card, I'll be most happy because it's not really the basis for spatial intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u275	Comrade Bevk, there's a way, so think about it. Now, before I finish this debate, you have to say it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you very much. In fact, when I tried to determine how and with what arguments and with what explanation this map came into this document, I saw no explanation anywhere, neither in the magnetogram nor in the act itself when the matter was put into the procedure. There is no explanation in our Lotus Notes information system, so it would actually be best to delete this. However, I must consult in the Group of Members, because this is not my amendment, but the amendment of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u277	The proposal to amend the amendment, for example, that this Annex be deleted, should then be given by the Group of Members. I'm not going to finish the point, I'm not going to interrupt it, I'm going to give five minutes as long as we have time together - if you say you're going to do it now, or I'm going to finish it. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, it is possible to table an amendment by the end of the debate. [[Back-up advertising.]] Comrade Bevk, because this is your amendment or your parliamentary group, will you make a change or not? [[No, no, ……]] So I can close the debate. We will vote on the amendments at 8:30 p.m. in accordance with the timetable for today's session. This concludes this agenda item. At 8:30 a.m., we will begin the vote. Thank you very much for your cooperation and your contribution to the debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u278	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats, calm down and review the voting devices, because we will move to the vote. We are moving to a vote, which is to end the 5th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Dr. Bayuk, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, an explanation for the voice. We have proposed this amendment in particular in order to achieve [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u280	Please colleagues and colleagues for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u281	They'll vote no, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u282	Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u283	We have proposed this amendment because we believe that there is no clarity in this law, because it is precisely the definition of connected persons that is clearly defined in Article 12, that is, several lines earlier. And by mentioning here only in the sense that "especially" is what it is, it seems to us that this is not clear and we could define it by deleting it in Article 13, but by using the same definition, which the law considers to be "a connected person", what are "connected persons", but not that we have a "mega" here, which will cause us only problems in the future. But it doesn't seem like there's a hearing for that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u284	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to Article 17, both tabled by the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Here I would like to remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the following one, i.e. under number 1 by number 2, and if it is not adopted first, the second amendment will be irrelevant. May I have your attention, we are moving on to the vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We will therefore vote on another amendment. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the second amendment. There are 64 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was supported, accepted. We are moving on to Article 49 and the two amendments to this Article. The first was introduced by the SLS Group, the second SDS Group and Nova Slovenija. An explanation of vote, first we'll talk about the first amendment. Master Visjak? No, no, no. Nobody else? We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. Voice explanation, Master Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u285	I will support the amendment, in particular because I think and I am sure that tax policy can be an appropriate instrument and an appropriate instrument to achieve certain objectives that are country-to-country specific and are very important for our country-specific Slovenia. I think that this amendment follows the objective mainly in the sense that tax reliefs are increased to invest in those sectors that are perspectives for the further economic development of Slovenia, and especially in those areas that are under-averagely developed. I see an effective, opposite way of reducing too many differences in development in the economic and quality of life in Slovenia, especially in such a way as to encourage investment even in areas where there might be no such tax incentives, there would be no investment. Of course, any high-quality investment, quality I mean those that relate and take place in activities that are vis-à-vis Slovenia, of course also provide jobs and are usually less developed regions also in regions where the average unemployment rate is higher. The amendment is an attempt that will not contribute significantly to the destruction of these 35 billion, which the Minister wants to save or gain in this law, but will be able to contribute significantly to the more coherent development of Slovenia in terms of developing better conditions where investments are needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u286	Dr. Bayuk, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have proposed and supported this amendment already in the debate this morning and, of course, we will vote for it as well. In particular, because when we listened to the government's explanations, we have actually found that the government has deliberately renounced fiscal policy in the sense that they want to maintain only one and only one goal, and this is, of course, to raise as much resources as possible to finance our over-public spending. Of course, I understand the Minister that he has problems with this amendment, but that is not attributed to those who have a very clear view that the Slovenian Government, the Slovenian State, must direct certain things through fiscal policy, but they must attribute it to themselves because they did not want to and they have consciously decided not to tax certain resources that are still available in Slovenia. Let me repeat, these are exactly the capital gains of those gentlemen who have made their fortune overnight and now you are protecting them, so you cannot agree to such things. This is the price, and this is the price - the cancellation of fiscal policy is also the price we pay, because the great coalition has decided to protect the "Tajkuna" transition process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u288	Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? Nobody. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 67 of us present, in favour of 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups to Article 52. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're moving to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment didn't get any support. This concludes the vote on the amendments. I give the floor to the proposer if he wishes to propose - to the bill-maker. Minister, would you suggest that the third hearing be held at this meeting? There are conditions, please submit this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u289	I would like to propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u290	Thank you. Therefore, under Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, conditions are laid down for the third hearing to be held at this meeting as amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal have been adopted. That is why I am putting such a proposal to the vote. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. Please note that we are voting on this. We're voting! There are 67 of us present, 43 votes against 20. (The vote was 43.)(against 20.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Tuesday 30.3.2004 after the end of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are now moving on to the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the draft law on environmental protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which are under review. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to Article 3 and the amendments tabled to Article 3. May I have your attention, we will vote on this. We're voting! There are 60 of us present, 23 votes against 32. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 7 and the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There are 63 of us present, 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 11 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting! There are 63 of us present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We turn to Article 13 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 13. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 45 votes against 15. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 20 and the amendment of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 29 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 31 and the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and SDS. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 36 and the amendment of the same two groups of Members. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 109 and the amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 48 votes against 15. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 110 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members under number 1, under number 2 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. First, I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 43 votes against 19. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment was accepted. And I am putting to the vote an amendment under number two of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 31 votes against 28. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 111. Two amendments to the four groups have been tabled. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on amendment number one. There are 65 of us present, 60 votes against 5. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. And we're still deciding on the amendment under number two. We are voting on amendment number two. There are 64 of us present, 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 124. Three amendments have been tabled. All three have submitted four LDS, SLS, the United List and DeSUS. First, we'll decide on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 67 of us present. It's 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment under number 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. For the sake of clarity, I'll read the note. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants under Article 3 to 128 and Article 178. So if this is not accepted, the related amendments are irrelevant. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 65 of us in attendance. The vote was 44, four against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still moving on to the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are moving on to Article 128, where the three amendments of the four groups are tabled. First, I'm putting an amendment to the vote under number one. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We are voting on amendment number two. There are 64 of us present. 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on amendment number three. There are 60 of us present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Here, too, the remark was made that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants under order number 2 to 124, back to back, as I mentioned earlier, forward. We are moving on to Article 130, where the amendments have been tabled by DeSUS, SLS, LDS and the United List. I'm putting the amendment into decision-making. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to Article 132, to which the amendment of the same groups of Members is tabled, with the footnote: the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 133, which will follow this; if not adopted, the amendment to Article 133 is irrelevant. We decide on the amendment to Article 132. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can therefore also decide on the amendment to Article 133. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 135 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 152 and the amendment of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. We vote on this amendment. There are 63 of us present, 18 votes to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 161.a, to the amended one that we have also stressed in our consideration that it has been amended, and we are deciding on this amended amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 168, tabled by the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 176 and the amendment to this Article of DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United Kingdom. We're making a decision. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 178 of the amendment of the same four groups of Members. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 180, the amendment of the four DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United List. We decide on this amendment. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 43 votes against three. (The vote was 43.)(against 3.) The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 186, to that amended article or amendment to this article, and we will decide on that. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 55 of us present. 38, 2 votes. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We are also moving on to Article 187 on the amended content of the amendment that we are going to decide on. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 193 and the amendment of the Youth Party's delegation to this article. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 27 votes against 29. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We're done voting on the amendments. The Minister, because he is present, or he has made a written proposal, will make his proposal to decide, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on this proposal, at the third reading. Please. Is there someone connected? [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] No, no, Comrade Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u292	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u293	It is embarrassing for me, but believe me, we are in a really hurry with this law, because on its basis we have to adopt 5 extremely extensive sub-laws, so I would ask you if we can deal with it at this meeting in the third reading, probably on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u294	It's a proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. We will decide on this proposal for a decision. We're moving to the vote. I've suspended the vote. Who wants an explanation of the voice? Comrade Aloys Sok. May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this and I think, Mr Minister, it is inappropriate for you to ask us to do so. There is not only opposition to this law, but a ruling coalition, all together - over 200 amendments to, I don't know, 250 articles. More than that, 270 amendments have been considered! Today here again, I did not count them, a whole bunch of amendments, and you suggest that this continue to be accepted at this meeting! This seems to me to be an unserious act, and for such reasons a good marriage cannot be formed. I will vote against that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u296	Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There's 63 of us in attendance. The vote was 42 to 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] The decision was not adopted. May I have your attention, please? Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." I will put this proposal to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 61 of us present. 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposal has been adopted blindly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of agenda 11 - a motion for a resolution on the national energy programme. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution. I'm making an amendment to Chapter Six. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There are 62 of us present. 49 votes against 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Chapter 7.2.3 and to the amendment to Chapter 7.2.3 of the LDS, United Kingdom, SLS and DeSUS. I will put the amendment to the vote. Clarification: for the first amendment, which is in your review, we have already explained in the debate that it is irrelevant; we have therefore voted on Chapter 6 which has been voted on. We are now at the amendment to Chapter 7.2.3. [[Back-up advertising.]] Wait a minute! Looks like there's been a misunderstanding. [[Back-up advertising.]] Just to be clear. Excuse me! The first amendment to Chapter 6.2 was irrelevant, so I did not put it to the vote. I put to the vote the following amendment, which is under review, to Chapter 6, which we have decided on. We are now in charge of the amendment to Chapter 7.2.3 of the LDS Club and of the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS Group. That's what we're gonna decide. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Chapter 4, because the amendment to Chapter 8 was irrelevant and to Chapter 8.4 the amendment has been amended, so we will decide on this amendment. The amendment has been amended and is referred to as the amendment to point 8.4. The proposal is the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment didn't get any support. And we are in the amendment to the Annex to the Energy Network Design to Chapter 6.5.2 of the United Nations Group. We'll decide on this amendment. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 23 votes against 27. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 27.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We have now ended our vote on the amendments. I ask the Minister for the Environment whether the resolution with the amendments adopted is harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u297	Thank you very much. With the second amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, you mistakenly made the sum of some numbers totaling 6 billion 970, suddenly 14 billion. This is, of course, a mathematical nonsensus, which needs to be corrected with the harmonisation amendment, so that we will prepare this harmonisation amendment and propose to end the vote and when the harmonisation amendment is ready to continue with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u298	In view of the reasons given for the non-compliance, I interrupt the 11th item of the agenda. The government should prepare a harmonisation amendment. The assembly will address this item on Tuesday according to the last item of the agenda. I hereby adjourn the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation and good night.
